Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Duke Realty quarterly earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and later we will conduct a question-and-answer session with instructions being given at that time.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Randy Henry; Assistant Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Keely.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Christie Kelly Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Mark Denien Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me again remind you that the statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2010 10-K that we have on file with the SEC and now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Randy good afternoon everyone and welcome to Duke Reality's first quarter earnings call.
Today I will address our view on the state of business and some of the drivers affecting real estate demand I will also highlight some of our key accomplishments during the quarter in both our assets and operations strategies.
Christie will address our first quarter financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
The first quarter was solid from an operation prospective and in the execution on our asset repositioning strategy.
The end of 2010 provided significant moment for us with the announcement of both the acquisition of the premier portfolio in South Florida and the transaction with CBRE Realty Trust.
I am pleased to announce that both transactions are now fully complete.
The first quarter of 2011 started somewhat slow with continued concerns over the pace of the economic recovery and whether any near-term meaningful traction to be sustained.
A combination of the political events taking place in the Middle Eastern country and concerns over weak growth estimates for the US and other key countries also affected leasing activity.
Another key factor during the first two months of the quarter was the severe winter weather conditions we experienced in many of our markets.
At various times during the quarter our Dallas Atlanta St Louis Indianapolis and Columbus offices were closed because of inclement weather.
We know now that the combination of all these factors led to a slowdown in growth in GDP to 1.8% in the first quarter.
We certainly can feel the slowdown.
The good news is that now we are beginning to see somewhat of a pickup in activity as companies review their business forecasts and their plans for potential space needs.
We said in January that our outlook remained somewhat conservative on the industrial sector.
We are seeing more visits to view available space the timing of these users making a commitment to lease additional space is still unclear but at least it is encouraging to see people back in the market.
As I also noted on our fourth quarter call that we were aware of a few potential significant terminations in our industrial portfolio or during the first part of 2011.
I am pleased to report that we were able to execute a renewal for 800 000 square feet expirations we mentioned in Savannah.
That was one of the key vacancies that we needed to address in 2011.
We still have some challenges ahead but we're off to a good start nonetheless.
The office leasing environment remains slow but there are pockets of solid activity.
We signed 125 000 square feet lease with Alcatel-Lucent over in Columbus Ohio.
We also are pleased to report that our 3630 Peachtree project in Buckhead is now 44% leased with solid momentum and a backlog of prospects to push that occupancy even higher.
On the medical office front leasing activity and development opportunities are picking up.
In March we placed into service the Baylor Cancer Center in Dallas.
Our building is spectacular and is 95% leased to Baylor and US Oncology. The overall occupancy in our portfolio was 88.9% at March 31 down slightly from 89.1% at year-end 2010.
This is a little better than we expected because of some key renewals and some continued short-term leases.
We signed over 5.3 million sq ft of leases during the quarter which is a very solid number.
Our industrial portfolio maintained occupancy at 90.2% at the end of the quarter in addition to the two-year renewal we signed in Savannah other key industrial transactions included a 646 000 square feet lease extension in our Hebron Building 1 in Cincinnati and three renewal extension deals totaling nearly 370 000 square feet in our Freeport buildings in Dallas.
Our office portfolio maintained occupancy at 85.6% as of the end of the first quarter which was basically flat with year-end.
And as I mentioned there are pockets of activity but the leasing environment is still slow.
One positive note is that we're beginning to see some of our customers looking to hire again which we believe is a good sign.
Consistent with our expectations same-property NOI for the three and 12 months ended March 31 was flat at a positive 0.9% respectively.
I would like to point out that our guidance for 2011 is a negative 3% to a positive 1% range in same property NOI growth.
Our results through the first quarter are in line with our expectations given the known terminations and continued anticipated rent roll downs.
During the quarter we renewed 70% of our leases in line with our historical average.
We did experience a negative 4.9% rolled down in net affective rents in these renewals this is in line with where we ended up in 2010 in all our renewals.
The negative 6.88% on industrials renewals was driven by a couple of larger transactions that we completed where we gained more leased term but had to give some ground on rents for quality tenants.
Our lease expirations for the rest of 2011 are very manageable given our historic renewal percentage and executioned our teams in each market.
We do expect net spreads to be in this general range for the rest of this year.
Our current development pipeline reflects our commitment to pre-leased medical office in industrial assets.
As of March 31 our wholly owned development pipeline consisted of six medical office assets totaling 347 000 square feet and two industrial buildings totaling 1.6 million square feet.
The aggregate occupancy of the pipeline is 88% our joint-venture development pipeline is comprised of a previously announced 406 000 square feet 100% lease industrial building expansion in Indianapolis.
We are having more discussions with customers about build-to-suit projects on both the industrial and office side.
Still too early to tell if any of these projects will get started this year but we are more optimistic about potential development starts.
The only acquisition activity we completed in the first quarter was the closing on the additional assets in the premium portfolio and as of today as I mentioned we have closed on all the properties.
We have personnel in place to manage and operate a portfolio and are seeing good leasing activities.
We continue to review and pursue other acquisition opportunities to advance our asset repositioning strategy.
We are focused on industrial and medical office deals that complement our current portfolio.
Pricing in some of the deals that we have pursued has been very aggressive as cap rates for high-quality assets in major markets continue to compress.
We will continue to be patient on making acquisition decisions that make sense for our portfolio.
We had a very strong quarter on the disposition front.
We generated over $456 million of proceeds from asset sales nearly all were Midwest office assets.
As I mentioned earlier we closed on the sale of the remaining 13 suburban office buildings to our joint-venture with CBRE Realty Trust which generated proceeds of $274 million to us.
In conjunction with the sale the joint-venture closed at $275 million bridge loan.
The venture is currently working to refinance the bridge loan with long-term secured loans on assets in this portfolio.
We had a lot of interest from lenders in the secured financing at very favorable terms.
We also disclosed that our portfolio consisting of two CBD buildings in Cincinnati Ohio and three suburban office assets located in Nashville.
The portfolio was over 98800 square feet and was 86% leased.
We are pleased to see bank financing for this portfolio this was the first time we saw true bank financing for this kind of a transaction in over three years.
And finally we sold two other office buildings in Cincinnati totaling nearly 410 000 sq.
ft.
The assets were 100% leased to a single tenant and were originally developed in our health for sale portfolio.
I am also pleased to report that investor concentration is that 45% industrial 46% office 6% medical and 3% retail as of the end of the first quarter.
So with that I will turn it over to Christie.
Thanks Denny.
Good afternoon everyone as Denny mentioned I would like to provide an update o our first quarter financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
I am pleased to report that our first quarter of 2011 core FFO with $0.28 per share.
The results were in line with our expectations and the consensus estimates for the quarter.
Our core earnings from rental operations remain stable even as we continue to re position our asset mix.
Our service operations continue to have strong results from the progress on the Brass project in Washington DC which is moving to completion later this year.
We also had a strong backlog of projects for the service operation business.
On the capital transaction side the timing of the closing of the CBRE Realty Trust transaction combined with the other asset disposition resulted in a cash balance of $167 million as of March 31 2011.
And I am pleased to say a zero balance on our unsecured line of credit.
As Denny mentioned we are looking at acquisition and development opportunities that make sense in order to re-invest the cash balance.
We made good progress during the quarter on some of our key capital strategy metrics.
Specifically our fixed charge coverage ratio improved to 1.8 one time from 1.7 nine time at year-end 2010.
Net debt to EBITDA improved to 6.66 times from 7.31 times at the year-end and debt to gross asset remained at 46%.
We retired $42.5 million of unsecured bonds in March with available cash.
Our maturities for the remainder of 2011 totaled just over $355 million.
Our capital strategy call for the retirement free use of cash proceeds from asset sales of refinancing unsecured bonds when the timing and pricing makes sense.
We are pleased with our progress today in our capital strategy and our focused on achieving our goal.
We will continue to address our capital plans in accordance with our assets and operating strategy.
With that I will turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Christie.
We are pleased with the start to 2011 and we are optimistic about the remainder of the year.
We are executing our operation strategy through leasing in our portfolio and pursuit of development opportunities primarily in medical office and industrial build-to-suit projects.
Our current development pipe line is well leased comprise of high quality projects that step in to our long term asset plans.
The acquisition disposition activity in the first quarter of 2011 continued our progress on the ultimate repositioning of our portfolio to 60% bulk industrial 25% suburban office and 15% medical office.
Our balance sheet is strong and our long term focus is to continue to improve key coverage of metrics to reset of our vacant space.
This process will take some time but we are well positioned heading into the rest of 2011.
Finally with the solid start to the year we have reaffirmed our core FFO guidance of $1.06 to $1.18 per share for 2011.
Thank you again for joining us today and now we will open it up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Sloan Bohlen at Goldman Sachs please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
First Denny just a question - you touch on it a little bit but just pricing for suburban office as you guys are looking to sell more.
And then within that question maybe just your thoughts on the pace at which you can sell.
A competitor of yours had talked about the opportunity to sell more into this market given the pricing looks pretty good for that.
Yes sure Sloan the pricing is as you can imagine a little bit all over the board on suburban office depending on the age the location the market but we are in sort of the 8.8% cap rates what we call the stabilized cap rate range for what we reported for this quarter and I would point out that there was some - a little bit higher cap rate and some of those assets the once in particular that were part of that Nashville portfolio that were located in not the best office sub market in Nashville and - or probably 25 years old.
But I think for the good quality assets again we’re seeing cap rates and probably the seven and three quarters to eight the quarter range today.
And I think we are pleased with what we proceed the state of the market is for being able to do dispositions As I mentioned on the remarks we are very pleased that we did see a major bank come in and provide just a loan for our real estate acquisition project.
We just really had seen that from the banking industry for quite a long time.
And again the terms on that were 50% to 55% loan to value which is still a little bit on the lower side but at least the money is becoming available.
So we're going to continue on the repositioning strategy and actively market - continue to actively market a number of our office properties.
Okay and just with regard on the pace is it as much and how much can you get done as fast as you can get done or do you think about where you put those proceeds in terms of acquisition opportunities in the dividend as part of that consideration too.
Well we do think about that.
But I would say that we are finding a fair number of acquisition opportunities so we're not really slowing down or trying to limit the dispositions at this point in time.
And then just one last question if I may? On your same-store guidance for the year it looks like things are trending to the higher end.
You talked about lease expirations being fairly manageable for the rest of the year.
Can you may be just talk about what would be the types of things if anything that would kind of move you toward the lower end of that range? Well again I think it is really good the pace of the overall economy is going to drive it about as much as anything else.
To get an improvement in that number so be towards a more optimistic range.
Our occupancy has to be a little bit more towards the higher and of our range for the year that we gave you.
I think even then if the volume of activity picks up it is going to be good for occupancy but I don't think it's going to have a big impact on rent.
I still think this year even of activity is towards the higher end the rent - there is still going to be some pressure on rent and like we said.
It is probably a negative 5% give or take range on the rent spreads today and will be for the rest of the year.
Okay thank you guys.
Thanks Sloan.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to the line of Stephen Frankel with Green Street Advisors please go ahead.
Thank you just a couple of questions.
Denny as you mentioned earlier the CBRT JV is starting to look at secure debt packages.
You mentioned that you started to see better packages than before but can you be more specific about what that means? How have spreads moved over the last six months or so and what kind of LTV are you targeting for that venture Steven I'll jump in there.
In terms of the LTV we're looking at 50% to 60% off LTV venture and specifically as it relates to the permanent debt proposals and/or LOI's that have in hand very attractive very aggressive pricing in terms of rates.
We are talking about four to mid five.
Is that with like a five year term or a 10 year term? We are looking at ten-year term.
And is that from a life companies banks mixture of that? Primarily life companies.
Okay.
And then when you guys are looking at allocating capital between acquisitions and development what kind of an unlevered IRR hurdle are you viewing both of those activities through? Well it sort of depends today because as part of this repositioning.
We are selling assets that what we believe is good long-term pricing and then we're just focused on buying assets at good long-term pricing too and just improving.
We are moving towards our desired asset mix and just improving the overall quality of the portfolios so we're focused I will tell you more on that than we are on exclusively on cap rates today.
Particularly again on the acquisition side but you can see where things are shaking out on some of the acquisitions that we have done and depending on where we are we are probably really in the 7% to 8% range.
On new development we are always looking at higher yields than on acquisitions and that difference again as it usually is in most parts of the cycle is today probably about 150 basis points higher yield on the development that we can find on similar kinds of acquisitions today.
So in the development we are really looking at for the most part 8.5 to 9.5 yields with some growth built into that for some longer-term leases.
Okay and then finally perception of how your suburban office recovery is faring mid-cycle versus the early 2000s.
Are we - is it taking longer because it's the job (inaudible) or are things starting to catch up more now? No I think it is definitely taken longer Steve.
It is this one is pretty slow and pretty stubborn and it is I really do believe being driven by that unemployment rate.
If you look at where we are today in the last 18 months we really have not made a lot of progress on this unemployment rate.
It appears now that it is finally starting to tick down and - but I do not really see the office business picking up until we start seeing 50 basis point improvements in that over a couple of months period.
Then I think we can start seeing some office activity but this has been one of the lowest slowest recoveries we have seen in a long time.
Great thank you.
Thanks Stephen.
Thank you and we will go next to the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi please go ahead.
Hey thanks.
It's Josh Attie with Michael.
Can you talk more about the acquisition and the disposition pipelines and specifically the timing? Last December you were able to nicely time a sale and a buy and as you look forward and you think about what you want to sell and what you want to require how important is it to you for you to be able to time those deals in a way that's capital efficient? Well Josh we are very focused on that timing and trying to match those up but again that is not the key driver of our strategy because we were very fortunate and through a lot of luck and hard work we were able to match up several larger transactions last year.
We know that is not always going to be the case.
But if an acquisition comes along that we think makes long-term sense and the disposition pipeline is not there.
We will still make that acquisition and funded accordingly vice versa if we see an opportunity to do the right kind of disposition that makes long-term sense but don't have immediate use of the proceeds we will certainly consider that and likely do that.
But just - then just looking at the pipeline it is just so hard to tell because I would tell you basically those three major transactions that we did last year.
They are sitting there a year ago in April the only one we really had any discussions going on was the Dugan transaction which closed right at the beginning of the third quarter so they come up and they move pretty quickly when you see it.
So I think overall I would say there is a pretty good pipeline of deals being up deals out there deals being marketed and so I am pretty optimistic about the progress we can make this year but it is just so hard to say and until you find one of the big ones then looks things can close in 90 to 120 days.
Year-to-date do you feel like there's been more activity in your pipeline on the buy side or on the sell side? I would say on the buy side so far this year but I think that could turn too.
And when you think about growing the medical office part of the portfolio do you think that that will come from development or acquisitions or a mixture? Well I think it could be a mixture but today it’s really primarily come from the new development.
We’ve only done I mean basically one medical office acquisition that was the deal we closed late last year in Charlotte which was an excellent asset and it basically gave us the relationship with the Carolina’s healthcare system and almost everything else that we have in that portfolio today is new development.
We continue to look at some acquisition opportunities there I think that they may come up most of those are going to come I still think through our relationships with the hospital systems so when they want to sell some of their buildings to raise capital for other uses within their business they are going to come to one of their trusted advisors and owners and that will be us so that’s where I think most of those will come from.
But we were monitoring the market pretty closely so we kind of know what is going on there.
And then just last question you mention in your prepared remarks you were getting interest in development on the suburban office side.
I guess how serious are those conversations and what are what are the economics that would justify developing suburban office? Well again these are build-to-suit opportunities.
So that is really what is driving it and the build-to-suit on the suburban office side is usually a need by a customer for a specific building and I am not talking about anything extraordinary but a building to meet their specific needs or building in a specific location that they want to be in.
So many times it is on our land parcels where we can develop another building in a park.
Lot of times some of the people we’re talking to are our existing tenants that need a new building for expansion purposes.
This isn’t real wide spread Josh but we haven’t had a discussion on an office built-to-suit for I am not sure I can remember where it has been a while other than something that was funded by the federal government.
But for private companies we really haven’t seen any for quite a while and there are a couple of discussions going on around our system today.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thanks Josh.
Thank you.
The next question is from Brendan Maiorana at Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Denny you mentioned that you – you're seeing a lot of acquisition opportunities and you mentioned if you don't have the sales proceeds kind of match up that you would fund those accordingly which I guess I'm just interested in maybe what that means and given that you've had a nice performance in your stock would you consider looking at an equity issuance to grow the portfolio a little bit more constructively now versus I think the beginning part of the year where it seemed like you were pretty reluctant to do that? Well I think our philosophy hasn't changed here Brendan.
What we’ve been saying really for the last probably 18 months at least I can’t think back further than that right now so for the last 18 months we have been very consistent on that in saying that we would - we're not we don’t really need the equity.
We’re in good shape with everything on our balance sheet and we would consider issuing equity in connection with a major transaction if it came up and I think that is still our philosophy today.
Fortunately I mean if you look back over the last 12 months we did do some equity when we did the Dugan transaction because we didn’t have all the dispositions lined up at that time.
Then as this was pointed out we are very fortunate and if the timing worked out great between the CBRE Realty Trust deal and the premier deals so we did not need to do equity and didn’t consider doing equity for the premier transaction.
We’re really in excellent shape today.
As Christy mentioned we got $167 million in cash as of the end of the quarter to fund additional acquisitions no balance on the line.
So we’re just going to continue to go down that path.
Given that you've got kind of all of that near-term liquidity or call it bridge liquidity or whatever would you feel comfortable if you didn't have the dispositions lined up taking a big acquisition on the balance sheet for the time being with some of that bridge financing and then just paying it off later when you get a couple of deals disposition fund? I think this is certainly something we’d look at but we have to be pretty comfortable that there were some disposition proceeds coming not too far behind us.
And Brendon I am just jumping there again we’ve got almost 179 cash in bank and to that point we’ve been running our line really just with what I’ll call just for timing purposes we’ve gone up on our line a bit.
Denny and I have been very specific about not using that line as a permanent source “financing” and to that point have no intention of doing that in the future.
So even as we closed the quarter we had a little bit up on our line effectively with the disposition brought that down and now have a lot of cash in bank.
Sure.
Thanks.
And then just switching a little bit to the development outlook you've had some of your peers on the industrial side that I think are looking a little bit more opportunistically at perhaps starting some projects back in some of the better markets.
I think you guys have been kind of reluctant to do that thus far in the cycle.
But - and I know that when we talked about this back at your investor day a couple of months ago I don't think that was where your minds were at.
But has any of that changed in the past couple of months and could you envision doing back projects this year? Up to here today not really Brendon I think when I look at virtually all of our markets there is still fair amount of supply it is a lot less than it was 18 15 months ago 12 months ago but there’s still a fair amount of supply out there.
The only place we started a partially pre-leased building in Houston last year that was about 45% lease we started and it is now 75% lease then construction is going to finish up in the next 30 days or so.
So we’re pleased and there’s good activity but when you look around the markets I just don’t really see a need for projects out there today.
So I just don’t see it for the remainder of this year.
Sure okay.
That's helpful.
And then just last for me Christie it looked like the straight line rent jumped up fairly significantly just from fourth quarter to first quarter.
Is there anything that was particularly driving that number up and what might we expect for kind of the balance of the year? There was really nothing of note Brendon whatsoever.
I mean to the extent that there was maybe some timing on some larger deals that we did with a little free rent that’s about it.
But there is nothing out of the ordinary projected for the year and nothing that I can make note of for the quarter.
Great okay.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you and next we’ll go to the line of Jamie Feldman of Bank of America Merrill Lynch please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon.
Conversations with some of the brokers I've been having lately suggest that they're not seeing a big backlog of leasing activity particularly in the bulk portfolio.
Some of it I think (inaudible) with what you were saying about earlier in the quarter.
I guess I'm just trying to figure out what are you guys seeing in terms of kind of the backlog of potential leases and are things kind of slowing down or picking up? Well I think as I said Jamie we got off to a slow start I think for a lot of reasons this year but the weather certainly was a big one.
And we - after that I think we had some pretty good activity sort of early March it picked and now I would say it is kind of steady.
There are some deals out there but I wouldn’t say we have like a huge backlog.
If you look at just our industrial occupancy it’s really held pretty steady over the last year.
We had a pretty big movement from late 2009 to early 2010 and I am talking late third quarter to say mid to late first quarter a year ago and we felt pretty steady at just over 90% since that time.
There is nothing out there that I am seeing that is telling me that all of a sudden we are going to bump that backup to 92 or 93% in the next couple of quarters.
I think where the market is today people are – there is deals out there but there’s also deals with tenants expiring.
There is still some downsizing going on in a few cases.
So I would anticipate that occupancy that has to hold fairly steady at least for the next 6 months.
I think getting in to late third quarter and maybe early fourth quarter.
We’ll have to see where the economy is and what again particularly the retailers are thinking about the holidays and we might see some movement there but between now and then I just don’t see a lot.
Okay thank you.
And then what are you seeing in terms of within your - what you call bulk distribution between like more flex type office kind of smaller tenant users versus big-box? Well you got to remember we really don’t have any flex.
I mean if you look at we’ve got over a 100 million square feet of industrial and we’ve only got about 3 million square feet of flex and that is going away.
We got some of that we have a lot less than that.
We got some of that in the Dugan acquisition and that will probably start going away even lower.
So I don’t really have any comment on the flex business because we’re just on it.
But just on the bulk business what I would say is generally speaking we’re still seeing the bigger deals and I am talking what I would define as a bigger deal today is above 200 000 square feet.
I think we’re seeing more of those kind of deals than we are at the 30 000 to 50 000 square foot bulk deals.
Okay.
And then finally I got on late.
I apologize.
Did you - did anyone ask the Richmond (inaudible) portfolio is that something that you guys would be interested in terms of the land the location and size? Well Jamie we don’t comment on speculative acquisitions and you know what we are focused on and we’re focused primarily on in bulk industrial acquisitions but as I mentioned here just a couple of minutes ago where we not opposed to do with some medical office acquisitions.
So I guess I don’t know their portfolio very well to be honest with you but I suppose if their medical office assets in the right markets with - and good quality products it might be some we are interested in.
I guess my question was just more - would you want to own that much more medical office? Well you know our target is 15% of our overall portfolio.
So we probably need another 500 to 700 million to get to that when you look at where the overall size of our company is today.
So we’ve got plenty of room to do some acquisitions in there because today we’re doing about 100 to 150 million of development there.
So we’ve got plenty of room within our strategy to acquire some and we’ll just see if that happens.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Jamie.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Allowing few moments for people to queue up Mr.
Henry there are no further questions.
I’ll turn it back to you for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you again everyone for joining us today.
As a reminder our first quarter earnings call is tentatively scheduled for July 28 that concludes our call.
Thanks again.
Thank you and ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 5.30pm eastern time today through Thursday May 2 [ph] at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 302-365-3844 with the access code of 197143 those numbers again 302-365-3844 with the access code of 197143.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participations and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Duke Realty Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Christie Kelly.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Mark Denien Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that the statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2010 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
And now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Christy.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments during the quarter in both our assets and operational strategies.
Christie will then address our second quarter financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
We finished this quarter with a solid month in June making it an excellent operational quarter overall.
The performance is primarily driven by a strong leasing activity across several markets particularly on the bulk industrial side.
The completion of Premier portfolio acquisition in South Florida in our office joint venture transaction with CBRE Realty Trust nearly ended the first quarter provide significant momentum for us on our asset repositioning strategy.
While the second quarter was a little slower on the acquisition and disposition front I’m pleased with our continued progress and repositioning in the second quarter.
From a macroeconomic perspective most of the news continues to be somewhat negative.
Job growth is slowing GDP growth is below earlier projections and uncertainty continues in many areas.
These factors are affecting our business but there is also some positive news.
Net absorption was again positive for the industrial sector nationally during the second quarter.
Vacancies continued to decline in most markets across the country.
New to government starts remain at historic lows but there is some talk of limited new to government occurring later this year.
Overall this sector continues to improve and the trend for the rest of the year appears positive.
The office business continue to be challenging but there are also some positive signs.
Overall our rents are holding are beginning to improve slightly as indicated by our positive rent spread this quarter.
We are seeing more customers being active but this is still going to be a slow haul for the suburban office recovery in most markets.
From a Duke Realty perspective I’m very pleased to report that we were actually able to improve many of our key operating metrics during the quarter.
Total portfolio occupancy increased to 89.3% which is our highest level since early 2005.
Our in-service occupancy of 89.2% is the highest since 2007.
As I noted on our last couple of calls we are aware of the few large terminations in our industrial portfolio in the first half of the year.
Many of these expirations occurred during the second quarter but new activity was solid as we signed over 4.6 million square feet of new leases this quarter.
In total we signed over 8.1 million square feet of leases including renewals which is our best quarter of total leasing activity ever if you exclude leasing and new development projects.
We renewed 61% of our leases during the quarter.
This tenant retention rate was low by our normal standards but as I mentioned many of these spaces were back filled with new tenants and overall we had an occupancy increase.
We experienced a 1.6% roll down in net effective rents overall most of – with most of the roll down coming in the industrial renewals.
Keep in mind that many of these leases that are rolling now were signed at the peak of the market in 2006 and 2007.
We expect rent spreads continue to be challenging for the rest of the year but we believe you will see traction in rates on the industrial side as vacancy rates continue to decline.
We also achieved positive same-property NOI for the three and 12 months ended June 30th of 0.5% and 1.5% respectively.
These positive results were driven by increases in occupancy and the burn-off of some free rent.
Now let me touch on some of the key activity within each product type for the quarter.
As I noted industrial seems to be picking up across most markets.
This seems to be especially true of larger modern big box spaces which bolds well for us.
This was evident in the fact that we completed over four million square feet of new industrial leases.
We were able to increase our industrial portfolio occupancy to 90.6% as of June 30th; some of our larger deals this quarter included a 405 000 square foot lease in Atlanta to substantially back-fill a portion of our another tenant that expired this quarter.
A 551 000 square foot lease in Chicago to take an entire building that had been occupied by another tenant on a month-to-month basis.
A 263 000 square foot lease with a tenant in Dallas our Point West VI building and two long-term leases in St.
Louis totaling 238 000 square feet.
The office leasing environment remained slow as we expected.
Office leasing always like industrial and we continue to believe we’ll not see a noticeable improvement until we see a greater broad based job growth.
We were able to maintain our office occupancy at 85.4%.
We were also able to renew 84% of our office spaces and actually achieved a positive growth in that effective rents.
Along with several key renewals we signed some of our larger new office leases included an 80 000 square foot expansion for a tenant in Cincinnati 30 000 square foot lease with the GSA in Cleveland and the 34 000 square foot lease in in the 3630 Peachtree project in Atlanta which is now 45% leased.
On the medical office front leasing activity and development opportunities continued to gain traction our medical office portfolio occupancy increased to 85.9% as of June 30th and we expect to start several new development projects yet this year.
I’m pleased to report that leasing momentum is continuing into the third quarter.
In July we signed a 450 000 square foot bulk industrial lease in Nashville.
This space have been vacant for sometime and takes our Nashville occupancy to over 95%.
Now our total progress on our asset strategy.
From an acquisition perspective pricing on most deals that we have pursued has been aggressive as cap rates for high quality industrial assets remained low.
We’re continuing to stay true to our strategy and remain patient and disciplined with regard to acquisitions.
Our sense is that industrial cap rates are bottoming in the 6% to 6.5% range in most major distribution markets and even slightly lower than that in a few.
We acquired over a $116 million of the properties during the second quarter almost all which were flat to bulk industrial buildings in key distribution markets.
These acquisitions included the final three industrial buildings from the Premier acquisition in South Florida.
We also acquired a 323 square foot industrial building located in suburban Los Angeles that is 100% lease to a single tenant.
This building represents our operating asset in the Southern California market.
As you know cap rates were low in Southern California and our pricing on this asset was in the low 5% range but this is really a great asset.
Properties fully leads to a single tenant it is located in the south based submarket only 12 miles from the port and is one of only seven buildings over 300 000 square feet in this submarket.
The occupancy in all of these buildings is 100% and it’s over 95% in the entire submarket.
We also acquired two portion leased new with the stress bulk assets.
One is Phoenix and one in Savannah.
We’re optimistic about our chances to lease remaining portion of these buildings quickly as positive net absorption has been strong in Phoenix and the port of Savannah is operating at record levels.
These acquisitions further are repositioning strategy.
Compared to the last few quarters our disposition activity this quarter was a little light.
We generated 58 million of proceeds from the disposition of six properties.
We are seeing stronger demand for our dispositions as a financing markets improved and we continue to have confident and ability to continue the reduction of our suburban office investment.
On the new development front activity remains somewhat slow we’ve had a number of discussions occurring on bulk industrial build to suit opportunities and on campus MOBs but these projects are taking a long time to negotiated and commence as our customers navigate the economic and legislative uncertainties.
As we previously noted we are not really looking at spec development but there are a couple of markets where we believe there will be some speculative starts in the second half of the year on the bulk industrial side.
These include some submarkets in Southern California and in Houston.
The real question on new spec development today is going to be one of the projected yields based on the trust market rental ways.
So overall we’re very pleased with our second quarter.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Christie.
Thanks Dennis and good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I’d like to provide an update on our second quarter financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
I’m pleased to report that our second quarter 2011 core FFO was $0.29 per share a penny per share above the first quarter.
Our core earnings from rental operations remained stable even as we continue repositioning our asset mix.
The strong leasing activity that Denny touched on earlier is a key driver of the current stability and future growth in our core earnings from rental operations.
Our service operations continue to produce strong results driven in large part from the progress on the BRAC project in Washington D.C.
which is moving to completion later this year.
We also had a strong backlog of projects by the service operations business a few of which discussed already this quarter.
We continue to focus on our overall operating results and the capital expenditures necessary to grow our business.
For the quarter our AFFO per share was $0.22 which translates into a conservative payout ratio 77% and our year-to-date payout ratio its slightly 83%.
On the capital transaction side we continued to have success matching our distribution proceeds with our capital needs for acquisitions and development.
As I have said before our strategy is to use our line of credit for only short term needs and only in limited amounts.
I’m pleased to say that we have a zero balance on our line of credit as of June 30th and a cash balance of $118 million.
We continue to look at acquisitions development and capital opportunities to reinvest this cash.
As I’m sure you saw on July 18th we redeemed the remaining amount of our series end preferred shares that had a coupon of ten in a quarter percent for $109 million.
This transaction will have a positive effect on FFO and on our capital strategy management.
Our debt maturities for the remainder of 2011 is very manageable $312 million.
We will fund these maturities through the use of proceeds from asset sales or refinancing with unsecured bonds.
We continue to stay focused on maintaining and improving our balance sheet our fixed charge coverage ratio has improved to 1.82 times from 1.79 times at year end 2010.
Net debt to EBITDA improved to 6.67 times from 7.31 times at year end while debt to gross assets remained at 46%.
I’m also pleased to report that this week Moody’s Investor Service reaffirmed our Baa2 rating and improved our outlook to stable.
This is a stronger question of the progress we have made on our capital strategy.
We will have additional opportunities to improve our balance sheet as we continue to execute on our operating in assets strategies.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Christie.
As I mentioned in my opening remarks there is still a tremendous amount of uncertainty in this economy.
While there was a slowdown across many of the drivers of real estate demand during the first half of the year our portfolio held up nicely and we even increased occupancy and produced solid operating results.
We are pleased with the results so far for 2011 and are optimistic about the remainder of the year.
We continue to produce positive results in all three components of our strategy operations asset and capital.
We remain disciplined on our approach and are progressing nicely and on schedule to ultimately reposition our portfolio to 60% bulk industrial 25% suburban office and 15% medical office.
We have the balance sheet to be able to quickly react to opportunities and we’ll continue to strengthen it over time.
Finally with the solid first six months of the year we reaffirm our core FFO guidance of $1.06 to $1.18 per share for 2011.
Thank you again for joining us today and now we’ll open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Jamie Feldman Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I mean I guess Denny starting out with your discussion of kind of macro themes and it sounds like in your – the first thing you said on the call is that they are having an impact but they’re offset by others.
But then as you spoke more it sounded like you’re really not seeing an impact.
So kind of what are you watching to see where you can start to see some push-back given what we’re seeing in the economy? What are kind of the signs of things going down that you’re watching for? Well Jamie what we – the main thing we really watch is just our overall leasing activity.
We’re pretty much on top of that.
We get a weekly report of all of the prospects at our major vacancies.
We review that monthly with our senior team and more often on an individual market basis.
So that’s really what is I think initial indicator to us whether activity is really slowing down how does our prospect list look or how are our – the activity for our in-house leasing bodes.
And again so far we have to say that it’s held up pretty well.
Our occupancy continues to tick up a little bit as I mentioned we signed a big lease down in Nashville in July so right now we haven’t seen any kind of significant impact in my opinion on a downward trend in leasing from the things that have been going in the economy over the last 60 days.
So I think that’s a good sign.
And truthfully the summer is generally a little bit slower time for us and we probably expect to August to be a little bit slow but so far so good.
The other time that I may just in general is on the development side it really is slow as we’ve seen and it continues to be there is more discussions going on now but it’s just really hard to get folks to convert and get signed get project started.
But I think we’ve got some opportunity to do a few things in the second half of the year.
Okay and then I guess focusing on medical office business; do you see any kind of fallout from the budget issues in Washington and just funding to that part of the economy? No actually we’re seeing – we are starting to feel more optimistic about that piece of the business on the development side.
Some of the larger hospital systems are beginning to free-up more funds for new development type projects and I’d just call expansion projects.
We’ve seen a couple announced recently with some of our major clients.
So I think again that business is going to start picking up I think in the second half of the year.
Okay and then finally can you tell us the yields and the acquisitions you completed during the quarter or may be your projected IRRs? Well I think I disclosed the yields in our supplemental package and overall we were at about an average 6.78 – 6.77 I guess average yield at the end of the second quarter.
As I mentioned that included about a third of that I would say was from our California acquisition which was in the low five cap rate range.
Okay.
All right thank you.
Thanks Jamie.
Next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
I just want to follow up on that last statement.
Was it you said you bought Lynwood in California for a low five cap rate? When you do – when you buy an asset like that what kind of growth assumption there are you putting in there and are the leases coming due pretty quickly? That was as I said the single tenant that’s the only tenant that’s ever been in that building.
The buildings I think maybe eight or nine years old maybe a little over than that.
And their lease goes for about another three years.
It has some bumps.
We think today they are in probably 10% or 15% below market rents.
Okay.
And going back to your kind of tenant retention ratio it fall up quite a bit and 2.1 million square feet vacated typically where those tenants going or are they just kind of closing off shop or downsizing? Well first of all I would say again this goes back to what we said at the beginning of the year that we had some larger industrial tenants that were leaving during the first half of the year lot of those were in the second quarter.
And most of those some of those folks I think left because of consolidation and some relocation.
There probably was a little bit of downsizing in that but mostly it was either relocation.
And just for example we had a 600 000 square foot tenant down in Atlanta who basically terminated their lease and because they needed a larger building and they ended up moving into a larger basically build a suite for them.
So we have 600 000 square feet go dark there in May but we signed the lease in June for 407 000 to 600 000.
Okay.
And the last question.
On your development yield on page it looks like the yields in 2000 are your projects that you finished in 2010 the expected yields went down maybe 30 bps 30 or 40 bps I was wondering if you provide a little color on that? Yeah.
Well we did – we have kind of not a whole lot go into service in the second quarter.
And I think it was really just couple of projects and mostly is medical office projects so I think went into service.
I think I don’t think there is anything specific there keep an I think it’s just timing.
We’re still I would say on the new development side in the industrial business even though we haven’t started one here for a while I think the yields are pretty much where we have been saying probably in the 7% in three quarters to 8.5% range on industrial build a suite type projects.
Again and most of the medical office were in the somewhere between 8% and 9% depending on size the location as well as quality of the hospital system.
Again most of the development we’re doing now is on the medical office side of the business and those projects are really with very highly rated tenant customers in the hospital.
So those yields are probably a little bit lower than we’ve historically seen this.....
All right.
Hesitant tenant mix.
Okay thanks.
And in your opening remarks you mentioned that you think industrial cap rates and on the average material area was about 66.5.
Can you give one for office where you think those cap rates are? Well we haven’t seen a whole lot office trades to be honest with you.
So I would still say in most of our markets I think there is probably been some trade in some of the major markets one where we’ve seen some trade to be in Washington DC where we’ve seen some step trade actually on the office side in the 6% to 6.5% cap rate range.
And we’ve sold some stuff in probably 8% to 8.5% cap rate range.
But they are mostly one-off buildings here so there is just isn’t a whole lot trading there right now.
Okay thank you.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks its Josh Attie with Michael.
How much of the positive same-store growth that you reported do you think is being driven by the lease up of some of the developments that were delivered late in the last cycle and had some vacancy or maybe in other way to ask it.
You identified 40 million NOI opportunity last year for leasing up those assets.
How much of that is still an opportunity versus how much of that has been realized.
Well let me address the first part and I think Christie can help on the second part.
But it’s really not much again when you think about it Michael the way we do it is once the project either what we call stabilize which is over 90% leased or its one year.
It really goes into that population.
So most of those projects have been in here for quite a long time now that population has really gotten leased up pretty well and so I would say that the growth from – there certainly is just a little bit in there from the lease up and then the newly developed properties.
But I would say it’s a very very minor piece in that growth right now.
And just to answer your question one of the things that we do this is a matter of routine track.
The progress on that population is building and specifically the rent on the leases that have been executed for that population building now is in the tune of $17 million.
So we are making some good progress.
And your next question comes from the line of Steven Frankel Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Couple of questions regarding the asset repositioning strategy first of all it’s the building you guys bought in Lynwood where you peck replacement cost and where do you peck land value more specifically for that building? We think replacement cost Steve we didn’t really look at the land value specifically because as you know that’s pretty an infill market there.
But we paid replacement cost there right around probably 120 bucks a foot something like that because you said its infill and same closer to the board.
Okay.
In your starting as you said like a low-5 type yield from what you were saying earlier it sounds like the tenant is paying a below market rent.
What do you think the type of higher R you are going to achieve on that asset and how does that compare with other deals that you think we might see you guys do in South California going forward? Well we don’t really look at them as much on an IRR basis because then you have to just make all kinds of assumptions about your ultimate time period you’re going to hold and your disposition cap rates but again we think that’s a low five yield growing up into the high five low sixes as a tenant rolls.
We have seen some good rental rate increases out there in Southern California.
Again what we said about Southern California is it’s a market we want to be in.
We are going to be part of that market it’s not going to be a huge number for us as we go forward but we think it’s great as part of that repositioning strategy as we move through some of the office dispositions to be active in that market and own some assets.
And then I think going forward again that market fluctuate a little bit over the last couple of years but when you look at what where the yields have been I think they’ve been into that in that 5% to 6% range for a quite a bit of the time over the last four five years.
Great.
And then just a question on the office dispositions as you guys know that the environment and I guess the financing environment it sounds like from your guys perception it’s coming back which should help with the disposition strategy going forward but the CMBS market secured financing market from live companies and others has bounced back quite a bit year-to-date.
What do you think going to take for the volume to get there just more equity chasing suburban office versus industrial or something else? Yeah I think there is a couple of things that we are seeing I think there is probably two different types of dispositions we’ll do there.
One is smaller runoff single asset or two or three asset portfolios and we’re seeing quite a fair amount of interest in that on both the equity side and the debt side right now.
The banks were getting back in to the lending business on that so I think and those probably are going to be part of the CMBS market really Steve they will be just bank loans and we are seeing activity pickup.
And then I think the other area there we would be doing some kind of a larger portfolio may be even a multi-city portfolio and that would be contingent I think on some type of large CMBS financing and as you’ve said that market has come back I think recently there might have been a couple of blips but I think it’s still in pretty good shape right now.
And I think there is equity beginning to look at some of those larger portfolios and I think I had mentioned this back in June and we talk to everybody as may read.
I think there may be some opportunity for a larger portfolio sales week as the market improves.
Great thank you.
Next question you comes from the line of Sloan Bohlen Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi still one question for Denny you had some comments about some pretty good demand for big space within bulk industrial I’m wondering if you can may be reconcile with I guess the slow activity in the build-to-suit or respective element area it is a matter of those bigger tenants being opportunistic in terms of moving around for space and may be you can just elaborate on that? Yeah I think Sloan what we are seeing is the activity that we’ve seen has been strong as it has been in what I would call the larger spaces anywhere from 200 000 to 600 000 or 800 000 even and today I think some of those larger tenants are taking advantage of the vacancies in the market and the lower rental rates potentially to do some consolidation today or even grow.
We’re seeing growth in number of our clients.
So I do think that’s the big part of it.
Now when you look around now in many markets a lot of that large book space that was available and a lot of which was built right at the end of the last cycle has been leased up.
So there is number of markets a lack of that big space so that’s why I’m saying I think in a couple of markets we’ll start to see some spec development.
I also think which is typical from this point in the cycle coming out of the downturn you will see some of these distribution companies focus on build-to-suit opportunities because there isn’t that availability of the larger spaces.
And we’re seeing that really again from a discussion point of view but it’s just hard to get everything done and signup.
Okay.
And is there enough critical mass of that type of demand out there to start pushing rents even for smaller space across your portfolio? I don’t think so to be honest with you.
I think it’s still going to be a while before we see rents start to push and that was really the essence of my comment remarks.
I think what we’ll see today is one when a customer does need a build-to-suit the yields will be reasonably good on those and by that I mean in the 8 to 8.75 range on a bulk industrial building.
But I think what was the real decision is going to be tough I think for developers once they start looking at the spec product today is what are the rental rates that are really out there in the market today and what kind of yield can they get on those development because I think it’s going to be pretty hard right now to pencil out spec development with today’s normal rates in almost any market and how far do you think the GAAP is if you know those rates needed.
I would say we’re probably 20% off.
Okay okay that’s very helpful.
Thank you guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi everybody good afternoon.
Hi Ross.
Two questions first on the portfolio mix what is your timeline at this point for getting to your idea of portfolio mix? Well the timeline is we’ve laid out has been through 2013 and I think obviously we’ve made pretty good progress and we’re probably ahead of that phase.
But I – I see it really just depends on the market activity that’s available out there and where we can be successful mostly on the acquisition and dispositions are here that’s that truly been work a lot of our repositioning has been the medical office will probably continue to be through mostly through new development opportunities as that pipeline continues to be solid in growth.
Right now I think the industrial increase will be more through the acquisition side and obviously dispositions us some of its further office assets.
So I think it really just depends on how the market is as I’ve said it’s got a little bit tighter the bulk industrial side.
So we’ve done a few deals but we’ve slowed down some there just because of where pricing is.
But again ebbs and flows.
And then I also think there is some up again more interest and more activity on the suburban office side now than we’ve seen in quite a while so we’re still hoping to be able to get to those percentages optimistically before 2013 but again I think we’re very comfortable of being – get being – able to get to those no later than 2013.
So if I wanted to put some dollar terms around it what from a disposition standpoint over the next 24 30 months or so would you need to be selling on suburban office to get to these numbers? We’ve got to do about – it’s kind of between $1 billion and $1.2 billion of suburban office dispositions and roughly a like amount of maybe a little bit less of industrial acquisitions or development and then about 400 – $300 million to $500 million let’s say of medical office acquisitions or development over that 24-month period.
Okay.
Second topic your earnings guidance if I heard correctly you reiterated your guidance of – it was $1.06 to $1.18...
Yes.
Based on the first half run rate your – you’d be pushing into the upper end of that range.
What would take you to the lower end? In other words what gets that number that you reported this quarter meaningfully lower? Well I think if you look at it what we do is give you guidance at the beginning of the year in a range that we think will be for the year and obviously when you’re given guidance it’s early in the year.
There are a lot of variables as we mentioned earlier this year with those industrial expirations that we have.
And then we just have a tendency really not to change it during the year at least until later in the year when we feel like we can maybe narrow that guidance and give you a little bit more clue so we’re comfortable that we’re within the guidance.
If you look at the range of estimates that we provide and we tried at the beginning of the year.
We are probably trending towards the optimistic range in most of those numbers.
But again with just all the uncertainty out there we just did really feel like there was a need to change it this quarter at all and we’re very comfortable with where we are.
Is it fair to say that there is nothing on the transactional front or the fundamental front that would cause you run rate to be falling 14% I mean we’d have to fall 14% sort of and into the back half of the year to get to that lower end – the bottom-end of the range it doesn’t seem like it’s going to happen? I would say that as Denny mentioned Ross that we are just not in a practice of changing our guidance.
I mean we’ve been following that practice for many years now.
And we’re going to continue to do that.
If I’m trying to narrow it for you? (inaudible) understand.
And we’ve got strong momentum.
Thanks a lot.
Next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Just had a question regarding your comment about the leases rolling now that were in the signing the 2006-2007 period can you just give us a sense of what percentage of the leases that were renewed this quarter were from that vintage and what’s left in the overall portfolio? Yes sure.
I think I would say probably 80% of those leases that rolled this quarter were in that 2006-2007 range particularly on the industrial side.
And when you look at our overall portfolio it’s; probably we have a very balanced lease exploration schedule.
And so we run between 10%and 12% may be 8% to 12% of leases expiring each year.
So if you look back there was probably not a whole lot of our portfolio that’s left out there in those years because what matured has rolled and we may have a little bit in the second half of this year and a little headed in the next year but it’s probably less than 50% of our portfolio that were in those years.
And because I am just trying to understand it it sounds like you expect this leasing to be – pricing to be challenged through the rest of the year but if that peak year leases are kind of mostly down at this point I guess when would you expect that spread to get more positive? Well I think we’ve said particularly on the industrial side I think it’s going to be negative for the rest of this year.
If – there is really two things that have to happen again as you’re intermitting here the – it depends on when the lease was signed and its rolling now.
So as you get out in the morning ‘08 leases signed and late ‘07 early ‘08 those were rental rates raised already starting to drop then.
And then again going forward rental rates are going to start going up.
Again our sense is as the bulk product gets continues to get – we have higher occupancy in which when you look through our portfolio and the geographic concentration almost all of our markets in the industrial side now are above the 90% just two or three I think out there that aren’t.
So we are really in good shape and I think as that holds for a while that occupancy holds we will start to see some upward trends on the brand from where we are today.
And that’s probably going to happen in 2012.
Okay thanks.
Next question comes from the line of David Rodgers with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Hi its Mike Carroll here.
Can you add a little color around your current land holding how sites could support industrial development and where are those sites concentrated at? Well we’ve really got a land throughout the system we’ve got industrial land and basically all of our markets I would say with – with the exception of South Florida.
And obviously have a little bit of office land but over 70% of the land that we have today available for future development in on the industrial side.
So today on the industrial square footage we can do over 40 million square feet of new development on the land that we own.
And lot of that’s concentrated in some of our major Midwest distribution markets we got in Indianapolis and Columbus and Chicago.
So we really got land available all over for industrial development.
Okay and then on the transaction side do you see any large portfolios on the market that you be interested in buying are mostly single assets? No we’ve seen some larger portfolios be marketed so far this year in the first six months.
And a couple of comments on those I would say most of those that we saw were of mixed quality on the industrial side.
And by that I mean there was really good assets and good markets and then there was – those were combined with some markets you wouldn’t want to be in and some lower quality assets.
So what’s typically happening these days is the sellers in the seller’s brokers world solicit offers on all or any pieces in parts of those larger portfolios.
So we have on few of those larger portfolios we made some offers on pieces and parts that we would like that fit in strategically with us and/or the quality of the assets that we want to own but interestingly enough so far on those portfolios there is been at least one bidder for the entire portfolio and most of the time obviously the seller would like to sell to a single buyer or possible just makes transaction easier so we have seen some of those transactions trade in whole and we just weren’t interested in the whole package.
So we have been successful on those so far.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good afternoon.
Hi guys so I just want to circle back to California and just get a better understanding of what your outlook is for that market over the next several years given you did the one transaction it’s relatively modest in size and I think its $38 million low finds cap rate you kind of – I think you closed down the office you had out there a few years ago took a charge but now you are back in that market what do you think is the market opportunity what you think you can invest in there over the next few years and what are kind of the returns that you are expect to get? Yes well first of all you’re right that’s the first asset that we’ve really acquired.
We do have one land development side out there in Tino that we own for several years and we can do about 400 000 square feet on it at the appropriate time.
And we have made a lot of offers I would say over the last 12 to 18 months out in Southern California and been close on acquiring some other assets but that’s – this was our first successful bid.
Again it’s just key distribution market for the country and it’s a place that Duke Reality has a one of the larger distribution companies in the country should be we believe.
And I think but that doesn’t mean it’s going to be 20% of our portfolio or anything like that it’s not going to be.
We’ve said kind of in the $200 million to $300 million range in total over time.
I think cap rates are probably bottomed out a little bit.
They may come back a little bit as there is a little less money chase and stuff out there.
But again if you look back historically into cap rates in Southern California they fluctuate a little bit but they don’t fluctuate too far off of where they are today.
And it’s really a matter of how people are perceiving where the rents are.
I mean if the rents are – if people are perceiving the rents are going to be growing than the cap rates go down.
They think rents were sort of topped out and the cap rates go back up which is very logical how that works.
And so we’ve seen that again through this cycle.
But we’re going to keep looking at opportunities out there.
And again I think its maybe 3% to 5% of our overall portfolio or something like that ultimately.
I mean it’s it’s understandable that I guess you want to be in that market given the importance to the overall distribution market nationally but $200 million to $300 million on a $7 billion portfolio doesn’t really do that much.
So is it worth it kind of paying a 5 cap and for pricing that tends to be pretty strong out there all the time relative to the other markets where you can more scale of returns seems to be a little bit higher? Well it is worth it for us because what having a presence they’re does is it drives more business your way.
We are working with our major customers and they have an opportunity in Southern California.
You want them to be thinking about you particularly on the development side.
And they’re not really going to think about you unless you have some kind of a presence there.
So I think long-term it’s very important for us to be there.
Okay.
Fair enough and then I just had a couple of more specific questions probably for Christie.
Christie the dispositions that you provide the disposition cap rates that you provide I think are stabilized without giving kind of specific going out cap rates or the actual NOI loss that you’re getting or the yield going out the door is that higher or lower than the stabilized cap rates that you’re reporting? It’s lower Brendan.
Okay.
So the you’re effectively marking the occupancy opportunity at a stabilized number and these assets might have occupancy lower? That’s correct.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then in terms of the contractor fee line item which I think the contractor fees you guys have mentioned it typically 15 million to 25 million sort of on a normalized run rate but I think also in that line item now you’re including fees that you get for managing the CVRT venture and some of the other joint ventures.
Do you have can you give us a sense of what the other fees of even kind of the contractor revenue and the stuff that BRAC and Baylor that’s going to roll off what are those other fees are contributing today? The other fees Brendan are a smaller portion but as a result of CVRT it’s probably in the order of magnitude of 15%.
Okay.
15% okay.
Okay.
Okay I think that’s all.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thanks Brendan.
(Operator Instructions) And allowing a few moments for people to queue up they have no further questions in queue.
Okay thank you.
Thanks everybody.
It appears that we do not have any questions.
Does that conclude your conference? Okay ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
I want to thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Duke Realty Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.
For the conference all the participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be an opportunity for your questions; instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
With that being said I’ll turn the conference now to Mr.
Ron Hubbard.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you John.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Christie Kelly Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Denien Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2010 10-K that we have on filed with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone we’re happy to have Ron on Board as VP of Investor Relations.
I think many of know Ron but Ron has 12 years of experience in the REIT sector and then we look forward to introducing him to more of you at the upcoming NAREIT meeting in Dallas.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments during the quarter in both our asset and operational strategies.
Christie will then address our third quarter financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
We’ll then talk to more about our recently announced transaction.
We followed up on the positive momentum we generated in the second quarter with a very successful third quarter by all accounts.
We continue to improve up on all of our key operating metrics and also made progress on our asset repositioning strategy through several industrial acquisitions and our first meaningful quarter of new development starts in a while.
All this positive momentum was obtained to mid continued uncertainty and mainly negative headlines from the headline News from macroeconomic prospective.
Specifically the housing market financial services and banking sectors and employment growth metrics continued to dominate the negative headlines.
Yet manufacturing output and manufacturing surveys continue to be relatively solid.
With the majority of recent job growth focused in this sector as well as wholesale trade and transportation demand for Duke’s bulk distribution facilities continues to be good.
Fundamentals in our urban office portfolio appear to be stabilizing and medical office fundamentals continued to be strong.
Development remains opportunistic with build of suites in office and industrial and relationship-driven starts in medical office.
Landlords are still not commenting much if any pricing power across all product types.
Even with these challenging economic issues on international basis I’m very pleased with the progress we made this quarter across our entire portfolio.
The total portfolio occupancy increased to 90.7% which is our highest levels since 2000.
We renewed 69% of our leases during the quarter and attend an overall rental rate growth on these renewals of 1%.
The new lease activity totaled 3.2 million square feet and when you couple this with a low level of terminations we generate a positive net absorption of over 1.
6 million square feet.
While rent spreads are still challenging it’s pleasing to see that we had a positive releasing spread across all product types.
We also achieved positive same property net operating income growth for this 3 and 12 months ended September 30 of 1.2% and 2.1% respectively.
Once again all product types produce positive results.
Now let me touch on some of the key activity within each product side for the quarter.
Industrial activity was strong across most of our markets.
We completed over 1.9 million square feet of new industrial leases and approximately 1.9 million square feet of industrial renewals.
This leasing activity increased our overall industrial occupancy to 92.4% at September 30.
Some of our larger deals included a 446 000 square feet lease in national to a major Internet retailer to take that building to 100% occupancy a167 000 square feet at lease in Phoenix to cosmo power filling up our value add acquisition from earlier this year and a 158 000 square foot 20-year lease in Dallas to Genuine Auto Parts.
In all I’m very pleased to report that over half of our industrial markets have occupancy levels above 94%.
I would point out that we have a few large fourth quarter lease expirations where the tenants have notified us they are not going to renew so we anticipate some drop in our industrial occupancy level at year-end.
The office leasing environment continues to be challenging as expected.
However we were able to increase our office occupancy by over 50 basis points to 85.93% and achieved positive rent growth on renewals of 1.4%.
Some of our larger new office leases included in 82 000 square foot lease in Chicago to a major insurance company and 69 000 square foot leases in Atlanta to Rockton Company square feet of leases in Indianapolis to Interactive Intelligence and a 46 000 square foot lease in South Florida to the University of Miami.
On the medical office front leasing activity and development opportunities continue to gain traction.
Our medical office portfolio increased by 150 basis points to 87.47% and us starter two new development projects which I will cover in a minute.
We also made good progress in our asset strategy during the quarter.
From an acquisition perspective pricing on most deals that we have pursued has been aggressive as cap rates for high-quality industrial and medical office properties remain low.
We have continued to stay true to our strategy and have remained patient disciplined and selective with regard to acquisitions.
We focus on core stabilized bulk industrial and medical office properties for our acquisitions and intend to continue this strategy.
We acquired $103 million of properties during the third quarter almost all of which were Class A bulk industrial buildings.
These acquisitions included five industrial buildings in Raleigh totaling 696 000 square feet that are 91.3% leased.
Two industrial buildings in Chicago that are 100% leased totaling 365 000 square feet and a 329 000 square foot building in Dallas it is also 100% leased.
We also acquired two small office buildings one of them was part of our Raleigh portfolio acquisition and the other is in Indianapolis property where we acquired our joint venture partner’s interest.
Disposition activity was light during the quarter but we are working on several smaller disposition transactions that we expect to close in the fourth quarter as well as the significant office disposition we announced last week which we’ll discuss in more detail later.
I’m pleased to announce some significant activity on the new development side.
We signed a 15-year office build-to-suit transaction with Primerica on our legacy office park land in Atlanta.
This project kicks off our development in this park.
On the medical office side we started a project for health services is Indianapolis.
This project will be constructed and owned in a joint venture with the hospital that consists of a faculty office building on the campus of the new hospital being built.
The hospital will occupy 100% of the building on a 30-year lease.
We also started one other metro office building in and off our three developments start totaled $162 million this quarter and there all 100% leased.
On the industrial development side more discussions are taking place for build-a-suits yet there are still some hesitancies to comment on the part of the customers due to economic uncertainties.
So overall the third quarter was an excellent quarter.
I’ll now turn the call over to Christie to discuss our financial results for the quarter.
Thanks Denny.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I would like to provide an update on our third quarter financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
Our third quarter 2011 core assets held was $0.29 per share which is consistent with the second quarter.
Our earnings from rental operations increased slightly from the second quarter and large part due to continued lease successes as well as due to the impact of the acquisitions.
The increased earnings from rental operations were offset however by a decrease in income from our serviced operation due to substantial completion of the BRAC third-party construction project.
Although again I expect future projects of this magnitude of the BRAC project we continue with a strong backlog of ongoing projects and expect our serviced operations to continue at above pre-BRAC historic levels heading into 2012.
For the quarter our AFFO per share was $0.18 which translates into a payout ratio of 94% and our year-to-date payout ratio was below 88%.
AFFO per share declined slightly from the $0.22 per share reported last quarter and large part as the byproduct of capital expenditures necessary to support our successful leasing efforts that have driven the significant improvement in our occupancy.
We utilized the majority of our cash on hand at June 30 to fund the 109 million redemption of our 7.25% percent series and preferred shares in July.
Primarily due to the scheduled repayment of $122.5 million of unsecured notes in August as well as over $103 million of acquisitions in September we finished the quarter with $284 million balance on our line of credit.
With regard to our capital strategy all key metrics have improved throughout the year.
Specifically our fixed charge covered ratio was 1.8 times debt to EBITDA was 7.15 times and combined debt and preferred stock to EBITDA was 8.48 times ended September 30 2011.
I would like to point out that our combined debt and preferred stock to EBITDA of 8.48 this quarter increased from 8.18 times at June 30 2011 primarily due to the timing of our acquisitions closing near the end of this quarter.
We are also in the process of extending our line of credit maturity date from February 2013 to December 2015.
The total amount of our facility will remain at $850 million and will include $400 million.
I wanted to thank our bank for their strong support.
Today we have the majority of the banks committed and plan to close by mid-November 2011.
We are pleased with our ability to continue to improve our balance sheet as our operating and asset repositioning successes play out.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Christie.
While there is still a tremendous amount of uncertainty in this economy we’ve actually strengthened our portfolio and produced solid results in all phases of our corporate strategy year to date.
With a strong operating performance for the first nine months of the year and our expectations for the fourth quarter we have narrowed our core FFO guidance to $1.13 to $1.15 per share for 2011.
Now I’d like to discuss our significant office portfolio sales transaction.
Last Thursday we announced a definitive agreement to sell 82 suburban office properties to an affiliate of Blackstone for $1.08 billion.
As noted the transaction represents an accelerated over two years ago to reduce our exposure to suburban office properties primarily in the Midwest.
As you can imagine a transaction of this size and number of assets can be quite complex so we’ve been working on this deal for a while.
The requirement to the buyer was that they acquired substantially all of our wholly owned office assets in each of the markets they entered.
We agreed to this provision and we’ll now only own joint venture properties in those markets after closing.
And as far as pricing our supplemental information released last night we broke out the net operating income from these properties in the schedules on pages 17 and 18.
The core NOI from this properties for the nine months ended September 30 was $66.4 million based on the sales price of $1.08 billion this represents an annualized NOI cap rate of 8.2%.
As you look at the third quarter core NOI annualized the cape rate is 8.5%.
As you know there are many ways to calculate a cap rate but we believe looking at the actual core NOI from these properties for the nine months and three months period is an accurate representation of cap rates.
Also keep in mind that these are NOI cap rates and as you know we always focus on AFFO our cash on cash cap rates which are obviously lower.
I’d also like to point out that this portfolio is essentially unlevered with only $30 million of debt.
In today’s world it is very difficult to put together a $1 billion portfolio of properties with no leverage.
This portfolio was very attractive because of the ability to finding in today’s market.
So we are very pleased with this transaction and look forward to executing and closing in the next few weeks.
Now Christie is going to discuss our intended use of the sales proceeds.
Looking forward we intend to use the $1.50 billion for proceeds add follows.
$284 million to pay down our September 2011 line of credit.
We also will repay $168 million of unsecured debt maturities coming due during the remainder of 2011.
We also may redeem the $168 million 6.95% Series M preferred shares.
We have about $250 million of net acquisitions activity we expect to close in the fourth quarter of 2011.
That leaves about a $180 million of funds leased back to use for future acquisitions and allotment.
Bottom line we intend to use about 45% of the proceeds approximately $455 million from the announced sub-urban office portfolio disposition to further delever our balance sheet.
55% of the proceeds will be used to fund the growth of our industrial and medical office business.
It is our expectation that we will again have a zero balance on our line of credit by the end of 2011 and move into 2012 holding some cash under these assumptions this transaction will be between $0.10 and $0.12 per share dilutive to core FFO for 2012.
The effect on AFFO for 2012 will be between $0.02 and $0.03 dilutive.
Furthermore we are committed to our strategy capital objective including achieving fixed-charge coverage above to debt-to-EBIDTA under 6 and combined debt and preferred stock-to-EBIDTA under 7.75.
As you know because of the uncertainty and volatility in the economy for the past few years we’ve provided our annual earnings guidance in January.
Once again we plan on providing you 2012 earnings guidance and our range of estimates during our call in January.
And with that I turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Christie.
In summary we are very pleased with our operating results and our progress on our asset and capital strategies.
We believe the sale of the office portfolio is a win-win for both buyer and seller.
We are able to move forward quickly on our asset repositioning and Blackstone is able to acquire a virtually unencumbered quality office portfolio and obtain favorable financing in today’s market.
So thank you again for joining us and with that we will open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And first from the line of Jamie Feldman with Bank of America.
Please go head.
Thank you.
I guess you could follow up on the Blackstone sale talking about the processes doing a transaction how deep is the pool of buyers and then kind of what was the marketing edge? Well as you can imagine we did not fully market this transaction obviously if we’d have fully marketed this transaction I’m sure you would first bought it much sooner but there was a pool of buyers.
We did discuss the transaction with more than just one buyer and I think there was actually a number of people that were interested and we ended up working with the Blackstone folks.
Okay.
And then as you think about your remaining sub-urban office portfolio how much of this improved the same-store trajectory of that portfolio say over the next 12 months or so? And also what’s the difference in the CapEx? Well let me address the first part.
I think it’s a little hard to say looking out into the future how much it’s going to improve our same-store our performance.
I think obviously closed on this in the fourth quarter those properties will be removed from our same property performance for the year because we don’t own them anymore.
So I think our same property performance looking at 2011 will look quite a bit better.
Looking at the remaining office portfolio going forward if you look at our same property performance as we said this quarter we were slightly positive.
And I would tell you right now.
I don’t really have any reason to believe that’s going to change over the next 12 months probably sort of flat to may be slightly positive on the same-store but obviously again in January of next year we’ll give you our guidance for that – for 2012.
And then I’m not sure I quite understood your last question Jamie on the capital expenditures.
Could you say that again? I’m just thinking in terms of – I mean Christie has said the AFFO impact versus the FFO impact.
So how much are you saving in CapEx by not having the portfolio? I assuming it’s greater than average CapEx per square foot? Well it is because the office product is always greater than average on CapEx per square foot then our overall portfolio.
So the answer to that is yes.
Okay.
We can talk about that later.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
It’s Josh Attie with Michael.
Can you help us understand some of the differences between the assets that you sold to block some of the assets that you are keeping.
Looking at the supplemental it looks like the NOI per square foot is clearly lower at the Blackstone portfolio.
But the rental revenue per square foot looks like it’s similar and I don’t know if that’s a function of the leases being structured differently or then having different cost structures.
But can you kind of help us understand maybe what the differences are? Yeah I don’t know Josh that I can actually specifically answer those questions.
I think we can look into that.
But just in general again this was really the markets that we sold four of them in the Midwest guess work and then the rest in the Southeast.
What we really have left is a couple – really three Midwest markets with our office being Indianapolis Cincinnati and St.
Louis.
We have office assets in South Florida it’s a big concentration of office assets for us a little bit in Nashville and then in Washington DC in our joint-venture with (inaudible).
And so I guess just a couple of things I will say sort of any.
When you look at the gross rent rates in those remaining markets particularly Washington DC is the highest and quite of bit higher probably 30% higher than our – most of our other markets.
And again when we show our leasing statistics in our supplemental we include the joint ventures at 100% on the individual statistics.
Obviously not in FFO but as a statistic.
So the leasing activity in DC is going to obviously move those numbers higher.
And then I would also say that St.
Louis is also one of our higher growth rent markets when you look across the country our gross rents in St.
Louis are $24 to $26 range so that’s higher than a number of the other Midwest markets.
So – and then of course South Florida is a little bit on the high side.
Because a majority of our markets are going have higher gross rental rates and then – but still – the concentration of those assets is going to be still probably tilted a little bit towards the Midwest for Cincinnati and St.
Louis.
Hopefully that helps.
Okay.
Thank you.
That helps.
Okay.
Good.
Next we’ll go to Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Just a question on guidance number that $0.10 to 0$.12 dilutive for next year.
Can you maybe dig in a little bit about what is assumed about the pace or yield in which the procedure are reinvested? And then additionally to that whether or not there is any G&amp;A savings from shutting down operations in certain of these markets? Well let me start and then Christie can join me in.
But I will tell you that the guidance Christie went through the complete list of the use of proceeds.
So for example the preferred or the debt is just going to be what the interest rate in on that.
And then the acquisitions that we have planned for the fourth quarter is roughly – I would say roughly at 7% kind of cap rate range that we would be using on that to redeploy.
And then again we’ve got basically I think I said about – she said about $180 million write off of proceeds that are specifically identified anywhere right now and we’re just kind of assuming that that would be spread out during the first part of next year again at above that 7% cap rate and redeployed.
And on just those initial acquisitions are you expecting to get that yield day one or are you looking at lease up opportunities in I guess – We’re really not – we are expecting those day one because as I mentioned a remarks really our acquisition strategy is going to be it has been to focus on core stabilized bulk industrial and medical office assets.
Yeah that’s right Denny.
So I would say just in summary as you can see good majority of the $1.05 is going to be deployed immediately call it 85% to 90%.
Okay.
And then just on the G&amp;A sided is that anything to say there? Well I don’t think so.
I think what we will be reducing our overall overhead cost obviously because people that are directly associated with these properties we won’t have any more.
In the Blackstone may hire some of those or other service providers to those properties may hire some of those folks.
So our overall overhead cost will drop but I think when you sort through and what actually ends up in G&amp;A we don’t anticipate any drop in that.
Okay.
Thank you guys  Thanks Brendan.
Our next question is from Paul Adornato with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Switching to development I was wondering if you could talk about your plan your development hurdles or your return hurdles and pre-leasing requirements before you start developments.
Sure Paul.
I think as you know there isn’t a whole lot of development going on and I could also say as you know we’re really not starting any kind of speculator projects today.
So as I said in the remarks all of our new development which is over $160 million in the third quarter were 100% lease in really long-term leases.
Just to give you an idea on those projects the going in cap rate that are yield on those properties within 7 to 7.25 range.
But again those are long-term leases with annual rent bumps built into those and all those.
So obviously the average yield on those significantly higher than that.
And then the only thing that we’re starting with any vacancy at all today are few medical office property which is typical but we’ve actually pushed our pre-leasing requirements on those.
We use to be more on the 50% range now we’re pushing that up to 70% to 80% pre-lease for the medical office properties and that’s been pretty consistent here.
The yields on the medical office properties today are those kind of properties are starting in the sort of high 7s low 8s and again moving up from there.
And it’s really hard to say anything on industrial building because we haven’t really started anything and we’re not intended to starting expect here in the near-term future.
And would you anticipate spending anything on land that it is rebuilding a land bank of any sort? No not really.
But I will say we run into a couple portfolios where we’re buying some industrial buildings we like that may come with a site or two.
And so we would do that but we’re not going out and buying any undeveloped land on a separate basis and we’re really working hard to continue to sell some of that land and reduce that investment on those parts for future sale.
And I would echo Denny’s comments Paul.
We’ve been very selective on the acquisition front.
And one of the key things that we look at is the land component.
But there is – I think only one acquisition that we have done so far had land with it at all.
Pretty material.
Right okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thanks Paul.
And next we’ll go to Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good afternoon.
Question I guess just a follow-up with the acquisition strategy.
Denny looking at stabilized Class A industrial it sounds like that’s an asset class that’s going to be pretty competitive when you’re trying to get these acquisitions done.
So what do you think is the comparative advantage that’s allowing you guys to win some of the deals that you’ve done versus the competition that’s out there that imaging is pretty steep looking at these assets? Well I think there is a couple of things Brandan.
And one we have brought – have been able to buy a few things off market where before we actually started getting marketed we were able to get in there and we really get those opportunities just by doing so integrated into our local markets.
And we have done a handful of those this year.
On the other ones when it is comparative bid it is a little bit more difficult for us but we do have an advantage in many respective because of the folks that we know – obviously know the investment sales brokers very well and all these transactions were handled by investment sales brokers.
And they have a lot of confidence in us.
So they know that if we’re in there and we’re going to close we’re going to stick to the agreements we made because we do that and everybody knows that.
So many times if it’s a very close race we can win out just because of their confidence in our ability to execute and close.
Okay that’s helpful.
In terms of the portfolio targets that you guys now have after that $1.1 billion of sub-urban office closings and I know you’ve got.
What else is out there that you want to line up on the sub-urban office side? I guess you’ve got Cleveland out there but you’ve talked about are there other markets you’d like to discuss on as well? Yeah.
Let me just first say where we’re projected be kind of a yearend now assuming this transaction does close and a few other things that we mentioned we’re going to process.
We would actually be at about 54% industrial 32% office 10% medical office and the 4% retail.
So we really only got about 6% more overall repositioning to do on the industrial side.
So really switching and we’re going to keep our strategy the same new development build-to-suits and just core bulk industrial.
And then on the office we’re at about 32% and our target is 25%.
So we’ve made obviously a major move with this transaction.
We actually did close on the sale of three additional office buildings in Cleveland in October in the fourth quarter so those are part of that.
I think now we’ll be obviously I think more selective on our office disposition and we’ll really try to look at some of the I will call less functional older sub-urban office buildings and move those and then that 25% will really be comprised of the very core very solid office buildings mostly that will be in the major markets like such as Washington Raleigh South Florida.
We have a little bit in the Midwest still in Indianapolis in Cincinnati and St.
Louis.
I’m sure we’ll have some of those properties left but there will be mostly core properties in those other markets.
And then again where we still have development pipeline on the MOB side and also have looked at and I think we’ll close some MOB acquisitions and then ultimately when the timing is right we’ll just dispose into retail and redeploy that.
But the new I think really is this is a manager step in getting there to our targets much more quickly than the time like we laid out.
Yeah yeah absolutely.
And then just lastly there’s been a lot of discussion obviously over the past week about the pricing of the transaction say on the Blackstone.
Can you kind of clear up what you think the replacement cost of these assets is and how that compares to the $107 a foot for these 15-year-old asset? Sure I’ll try.
Of course it’s little hard to peg an exact replacement cost.
And I guess first of all one comment I’d make I’ve never closed a transaction what buyer and seller have ever agreed on what the cap rate was.
So that is not unusual.
I think the best way we can show is the way we did show in our supplemental package I mean for you guys that’s the actual NOI that was included and obviously when we close we will be required to pro forma financial statements basically indicating the effect of this transactions.
So you guys be able to look at those posts-closing also but it will really reflect what we’ve shown in the supplemental package.
So on the replacement cost per square foot it’s really kind of all over the board.
When you think about 82 buildings in I think seven different markets here it’s all over the board.
But I would say where you look at the bulk of these assets are the replacement cost is probably in the $120 to $130 range something like that for new office building today.
But I think I’m not sure that’s all – the whole thing is relevant.
I think certainly that’s partially rolled.
But also the basis that we sold that at $107 a food is only about 84% leased.
So to get that lease more the basis is going to go up in those properties to prove those up to a more stabilized occupancy as the economy of improves which is what I assume is Blackstone’s intend with those.
So it’s not just 107 there is going to be additional capital cost in there.
And then I think again it will vary market by market but $120 to $130 or $135 is probably a pretty good number.
That’s great color I appreciate.
And thank you guys for this disclosure in the supplemental on the NOI as well.
Thanks Brendan.
You’re welcome Brendon.
And we’ll go to John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Denny can give us the a rough break down in terms of the $250 million of acquisitions in the fourth quarter between bulk industrial and medical office? Yeah I think that that will be probably actually I think in the fourth quarter is probably be about 50-50 between industrial acquisition and medical office acquisitions we’ve actually found some very good medical office acquisitions and working with some of the hospital systems and some new hospital systems that where we believe we’ll close in the fourth quarter.
We’ve already closed some industrial acquisitions during the quarter.
So I think on a net-net basis certainly roughly half and half.
And have about from a market mix prospective? Kind of all over.
We did close I think it’s been reported.
We closed out a portfolio of industrial that was about $100 million and we closed that in October.
And that was mostly in Chicago there was own building in California and nine buildings in Chicago.
And then we’ve got couple of buildings in Dallas medical office properties are actually mostly in Texas.
And so it’s pretty geographically diversified but it’s really in our target markets John.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And I think you also referenced on occupancy due to some in the fourth quarter.
Can you give us some color there and how big of a dip are you expecting? Well I think the color is it’s just a couple we have on large lease in Atlanta with a tenant that we now is going to move out and that’s about 700 000 square feet.
And then we’ve got some other ones that I would classify that we think are going to leaves that are more on the short-term basis some in 250 000 square foot here in and 350 there.
So when we look at the dip it just really depends on how the leasing activity is in the fourth quarter.
And just I would compare this back to the second quarter this year almost John.
We told everybody we have some leases expiring in the second quarter and we anticipated our occupancy to go down.
But leasing activity turned out to be terrific and we actually increased our overall occupancy in the second quarter.
So I can’t say and that we think that’s going to happen again in the fourth quarter but it would probably be in the – at the top end probably in the 100 basis points range at the most of a drop.
And again if leasing activity is reasonable in the fourth quarter it will probably less than that.
Sure understood.
And would it be possible to get the cash mark-to-market on the releasing spreads during the quarter? That’s we disclosed in the supplemental John we don’t ever really calculate we always to net effective rent because for us we just think that’s the better indicator because we got all the pre-rent periods and may be the lease that was expiring and the new lease.
So we have always thought that that was a better indicator and that’s what we disclose in the sub manual package.
Okay.
And then just lastly I’m curious if you’ve gone an IRR in terms of your hold on the office portfolio that was sold to Blackstone? No.
Some of those pre0day meet John.
Okay.
(Inaudible).
So we really didn’t do that.
Lot of that stuff I would say probably most of the Columbus stuff was developed before we went public or a lot of it.
So it’s kind of hard to track going back or back.
Sure.
Okay thank you.
Thanks John.
And next we’ll go to Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Good afternoon.
Hi Ross.
Can I dig into the election of portfolio a little more? How does the process work? Did they approach you or did you go to them? Well I would say I don’t know quite how quite hard to answer that.
We just ended up talking to each other let me put it that way I think.
So – How was the portfolio of cities selected? Did they say hey this is what we want or did you sort of say hey take a look at everything we got tell us what you want.
Well I think it was a negotiated process.
It was – there was a lot of different discussions going on and it had to do with what cities they want what cities we want to what city that may sense for us.
One of the things I mentioned in the remarks was one of their requirements in understandably so was they didn’t want us to cherry-pick a particular market.
So they wanted to own all of our assets in that market which makes perfect sense.
And so we had – and then also one of the driving factors for us was what the use of our proceeds.
As you see we size this pretty much where I think its ideal for us because we can virtually redeploy the proceeds as Christie said 80% to 85% immediately.
Meet some are helped on our leveraged metrics by the way and then do some of the acquisition and repositioning that we’re working on.
So I think lot of it also had to do with the overall size of the portfolio in mixing and matching markets.
I guess I’m wondering if I looked out over the next well the 36 months I do know what timeframe.
Clearly Blackstone’s objective they’re not a long-term holder right? So they want to try to maximize their IRR over some three four five-year hold.
So I’m wondering what they saw in these assets as a buyer versus what you saw in your willingness to let these assets go versus others? Well that’s an it’s an excellent question.
And I think you ought to ask that question to Blackstone because I don’t think I can speak for them.
So I would surmise that you were more comfortable with the permits that the assets that you’re left with perhaps in your mind are better positioned for the future than then ones you’ve sold? Well I think I don’t know if I would say that specifically.
The couple things we have said as we have gone through this repositioning process is we really wanted to get to that asset mix our 60 25 15 and we’re sticking to that.
And then we want to be in – there are certain market we definitely want to be in places like Washington DC Raleigh South Florida and you noticed we do not sell any assets in those markets.
And then the rest of it is just short of the negotiation process of what works.
It’s not that easy to go out and do $1 billion-dollar transactions because it’s just – it’s difficult.
By the way I said it’s pretty hard for a buyer to find and unleverage billion-dollars portfolio out there today.
And then it’s also not really easy for us find a lot of billion-dollars buyers out there.
So if you want to do a transaction like this you kind of do some give-and-take and make sure just ultimately make sense for you.
And I think this will make perfect sense for us in light of all those strategy and everything we’ve outlined.
Okay.
And then Christie lastly on the preferred that you’re potentially going to be redeeming here.
Help me understand the thinking there because I sort of think that a sub-7% coupon on a press isn’t all that bad.
And when I look out I think 2013 you’ve got a preferred with an 8 candle on it that’s redeemable.
So why not save the capital to take that one out and this one in place? Ross I think that’s a great point.
But it is as you look at our overall capital strategy one the objectives that we had set out in achieving was to reduce our overall preferred as it relates to our total capital stat and get that to about $500 million.
So with that I had my eye on the redeemable not preferred which we’re already took down in July and the end as well offers in nice alternative to help us get to our overall capital objective together with the house in 2013.
So it does provide a good alternative for us and get us to our debt less preferred to under 775.
Okay.
Thank you.
And next question from Dave Rodgers with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Christie talking about governors that you mentioned earlier I guess in terms of the press dividend coverage or fix coverage.
You looked continue to accelerate the program like you done here or will just the drag down little a more now and so you feel little bit better leasing on that front? From the leasing prospective leasing is one of the primary drivers of the improvement on our fixed charge.
And then the compliments if you will or the reduction in our overall preferred.
So we’ll continue on the task and you know be prudent but as Denny had mentioned and as I given in the overall use of proceeds that if really does provide us to means to accelerate the execution of our asset in capital strategies hence we’ve communicated and as well with that achieve our deleveraging in this objective.
I guess further the question we’ll continue to see the same type of acceleration or is that more dependent on fundamental? Well I think there is two pieces to it David and one is the repositioning and then what floor we decide to use repositioning proceeds to change balance sheet and that one I think it short up in air just stands on what transaction to happen and then the other thing as Christie said on the coverage ratio that will accelerate as quickly as we get our vacant space lease out.
So I think that’s really yeah and I think those are both of little hard to predict on that that quite sure exactly was what do you want say about that but that’s the way we look added.
Okay.
Fair enough and I think with regards to the Blackstone portfolio sales did you have any often going position or were they any land position that were on the table with that part of the deal? We do we have some land in the most those markets not all of them of the total land position our investment is $80 million to $90 million in those markets.
And we have the ability to go ahead and continue to develop on that land or whatever we decide to do with it.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And we’ll have the line of Ki Bin Kim from Macquarie.
Please cooperate.
Thank you.
I just want to ask a couple more questions on the Blackstone deal.
I guess first of all how important was it in terms of what kind of actually it take that assets were encumbered.
Well I think probably Ki Bin I think this is really an organic question for Blackstone Ki Bin but I’ll give you my thoughts.
I think they were very interested when they talk to us that they could get such a large unencumbered portfolio because as I said it’s hard to do.
And just looking out there today everybody knows what today’s interest rate it’s pretty you can get some pretty favorable financing.
So I’m assuming it was fairly important to them but they have two really speak to that.
And are the remaining assets unencumbered as low or the what do you have left (inaudible)?.
It’s a combination of both.
We use mostly unsecured debt we’ve got some secured debt but it’s not huge percentage of our overall debt still even after we get all done with this transaction.
And again most of that debt has come from assets we’ve acquired and they’ve had debt on them and we have assumed them.
And then as we move down the road we generally retired that debt and move it into the unsecured or equity piece.
Okay.
So it’s actually a different way.
Your remaining sub-urban office portfolio on that to undepreciated book value what that percentage look like of finance – of secured debt I should say.
I don’t think we have it in total I don’t think we have it broken now by office.
And I think in total it’s in the supplemental package right now.
(Inaudible).
That’s 70-30.
Encumbered.
So we just don’t have that in front of us broken out to REIT office and industrial.
But I guess what I would say is just sitting here thinking about – most of our office assets are still going to be unencumbered.
That’s correct.
Okay.
And from that perspective to Ki Bin as you can imagine in getting the line approval as well as in discussions with the rating agencies the quality are remaining unencumbered pool as we did in ‘09 and as we do today.
We’re very aware of and at least make sure to keep the integrity of that overall pool and as well make sure that we have plenty of room on our covenant.
Okay.
And just a couple more question on it.
In total fund qualitative effects or I mean effect of take a looking at agent credit quality from you saw versus what you’ve kept how would that compared within the two portfolio? I don’t think there is going to be much different for the most part Moltai Tennessee office buildings all around and engage there a little the remaining portfolio is a little bit newer in this.
So I don’t think there is any change in our Tennessee quality mix.
And I guess one part the reason I would say because the MOI margins for you were saw regular you keeping seem very different? I want to indicate some pricing color on that? Well again you know every market is different and you know some markets have higher expenses related to the net rather gross we are lookout it some of them have lower – so I think it’s just really a combination of lot of factors and it doesn’t necessarily mean anything specific.
Have you can see from our subliminal package the way we broke up the NOI and the how much NOI is going to be related to our remaining portfolio and how much we defeat that is so.
Again in that this kind of office portfolio we it can very pretty greatly on a NOI (inaudible) based on cities and a lot of different things.
Yeah am I referring to the margins.
The margin differential specifically? And is that maybe because of what will you keeping is more vertical on versus more they sold few that be with a current payment? You know I don’t – probably of valid question (inaudible) think we can answer that right now I don’t have any answer for that.
Okay.
Will look it that.
And then kind of last quick question on your development yields how you quote is that free right down of land or? Well on the developed land we did it right any down.
As you recall a couple of years ago when we looked at our land portfolio we took about of third of it.
And identified it for sale and we didn’t take any payment charge on that land and we were working our way through this closing of that land.
Just way the accounting rules work on the development land there – you just (inaudible) ever get into the payment charge so all the development yields at our basically on a period basis.
Okay thank you guys.
Thanks Stephen.
And we’ll go back to Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Denny I wonder how many of these assets came from Weeks merger? It was a joke it was joke.
Always I will give you the exact number I would say few a few.
Maybe just turning to the medical office portfolio for a second.
With everything is going on in healthcare have do you sort of feel about that piece of the portfolio obviously you’re seeing the strong growth as the straight line runs and burnt off in the developments.
So where do you sort of stand and what’s the market environment like? Well we feel very good about that piece of the business.
And I would say the marketing environment is still good.
I think just like other areas of the economy there is plenty of uncertainty in the healthcare business now.
One of the trends that we’ve mentioned I think that everybody before that we’re seeing is the acquisition of physician practices by up hospital healthcare systems that’s still going on and I think that has the tendency to slow down some decisions because what happens is a hospital may won an on-campus medical office building.
And as you know most of what we do is on-campus.
And they want to take some but they also want to bring in some doctors so part of process to negotiate in the medical office building is which physician practices are they going to acquire and putt in that building.
So it just takes a little bit longer to work through some of those things today than may be did a while back.
So I think that’s one trend we’re seeing.
But I think overall business is very solid we continue to see development opportunities as we pointed out.
We started several projects this year and have more in the pipeline.
So we’re pleased and that’s still going to be a great piece of our business as we go forward.
As I mentioned after this transaction it will be about 10% of our overall assets that we wanted keep continue to grow that after the 15% range.
And then where do you think just overall on development the pipeline today is $125 million with it’s about $60 million left the fund and you obviously delivered some projects already this year.
Where do you sort of see the pipeline overall across each of the sectors you’re operating in running over the next 12 months? Well so far the primary piece of the development pipeline has been medical office and over the last probably 18 months that is by far the majority of what we have and including even this quarter.
But for we didn’t as we mentioned we signed the deal to starts a build-to-suit a headquarters building for primary get down in Atlanta which is pretty significant project at 60 some million and I think the build-to-suit projects today are probably going to be sort of few and far between there may be one here there are like that.
But I do think the both industrial Mike sense is it’s going to pick up a little bit getting into 2012 on the built-to-suit I think.
There are seems to be a little bit more discussion and activity on the built-to-suit out there now.
But I would say in 2012 I would still say the majority of our starts who going to be on the medical office side.
And then stuff – that came in the first and second quarter where do those yield stand today versus when you sort of reach stabilization session that going to be additive FFO over the next 12 to 24 months.
Are you talking about acquisitions or development? At the development I mean most of offices fully leased I still know if there is going to be a big gap impact.
So looking at the page 29 of the supplemental.
I don’t think any of those projects individually are going to have a real significant impact Michael obviously when there are 100% leased that reasonably good yields here and even in today’s market are there going to have a positive impact dollars when they do come in to service so.
My last question just in terms of I will ask one on the Blackstone portfolio when and do appreciate the information on page 17.
I assuming you look at the annualized third quarter NOI versus the annualized nine months NOI you obviously get a different perspective given in the NOI in the third quarter was a lot higher than the annualized income for the first nine months.
So here eight and half cash yield with 3Q results are $91 million of that NOI in Europe sort of it 815 yield on nine months annualized or $88 million to NOI.
So it’s anything particular going on in the portfolio in the third quarter are in the nine months that what skew that one were in the other? Well the answer is no not really we either look at the occupancy for the average occupancy for the nine months versus 13 months and its pretty close.
My only comment there would be is I think we have always cautioned everybody about looking at quarterly information and we have said that about same-store growth many time because just things can happen in a three months periods that push things up or down.
And it might been in the longer that periods of look at the better view we get Now that doesn’t mean I’m saying it the lower cap rate I’m just saying that look we put the numbers out there up in front of you.
So this is just a representative cap rate of what the transaction is.
And again as I said there is a lot of different way to count.
And so I think just gets everybody in the ballpark.
Well I guess when you look at is the – your remaining sub-urban office portfolio itself a different story right.
So you look at the Blackstone portfolio the third quarter annualized NOI is up 4% relative to the nine months annualized where there is a stuff that you cap is down 2%.
So did there something going on between the two pieces? So I don’t know maybe it’s better to think about exemplary of budgets and all the properties thinking about it on a 12 months forward basis if you had NOI forecast for the entire sub-urban office portfolio.
What would the NOI be under that scenario so that we can start honing in as too really what the cap rate of the portfolio is? What’s happening with it? It was strange to see the Blackstone peace go up 4% on an annualized basis and the rest of the stuff you have got down 2% which then just somewhat called into question whether there was something happening in the third quarter with either in the stuff that’s on your books or the stuff that you’re selling? Again I just – two things I would say.
One I would caution you as you look at quarterly information because there can just be a lot of different things in the quarterly information that causes SKU because you’ve got you could have at least exploration you could have at least burning off kicking in during the quarter maybe one month end the quarter or half of month at the end of the quarter.
So those kind of things can affect it.
And the other thing I wish to add although is we had good leasing activity in that particular portfolio in the third quarter sort of late second but throughout the third.
Quarters.
So those several bigger deals I mentioned some of those bigger office deals on – in the prepared remarks and you know several those we are in that portfolio.
So we did have some pretty good leasing activity in that portfolio.
But again if I look at it I don’t think there is anything specific that I point out other than maybe that they had pretty strong leasing activity there.
I said if there was a tax refund or – maybe there is something one time in the third quarter result from that portfolio just make the pricing but better.
So I was just trying to see if there anything else that was within there? Well I don’t think there’s anything we’re really aware of as of today Michael.
As I mentioned once we close this transaction we’ll have to do a little bit more of role up reporting on it.
So – but definitely as we look through there something comes to our attention we’ll certainly let everybody know.
Great.
Thank you much.
Thanks Michael.
And with no further questions I’ll turn it back to presenters for any closing comments.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Everyone.
And we hope to see you all in a couple of weeks out at NAREIT.
And then we look forward to talk to you again in January.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does concludes your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Duke Realty Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) I’d now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Ron Hubbard.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Christie Kelly Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Denien Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our 10-K that we have on the file with the SEC dated February 25 2011.
Now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments from our asset and operational strategies during the quarter and for the year Christy will then address our financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
We will then share more details on our 2012 guidance.
Our solid operational performance and significant progress in repositioning the composition of portfolio consistent with our strategic plan resulted in an outstanding year for Duke Realty.
I’ll first touch a little bit on the overall market conditions we are experiencing and how that is affecting our business.
As the overall economy continues with this new normal recovery at slow growth rates there continues to be a relatively modest demand for space across all product types particularly suburban office.
There has been virtually no new supply of space over the last few years so even with only modest demand occupancies continue to increase particularly in the industrial space.
The industrial sector continue to gain traction in the fourth quarter of 2011 initial data from the holidays retail season indicates a better than expected growth in sales consumer spending continues to surprise on the upside and there has been a choppy yet steady upward improvement in supply chain and trade indicators over the last year.
Recently data has shown relatively strong growth in intermodal traffic across the country and exports have ticked up as well.
Both factors will help strengthen industrial demand if trends continue.
As a result barring any global macroeconomic shocks to economy our outlook is for continued (indiscernible) slowly improving demand for warehouse space in our market.
We’re still having numerous discussions about potential industrial build-to-suit development opportunities but our customers are slow to make commitments.
We are hopeful that some of these discussions will turn into real deals as we move to 2012.
The suburban office environment is still slow to recover as questions over the velocity of an economic recovery business regulations political uncertainty and overseas sovereign debt risk all still weigh heavily into labor and space decisions for our office tenants.
Double digit vacancies persist across the entire suburban office segment and pricing power remains weak.
The medical office outlook continues to be solid.
Hospitals and health systems are showing signs of needing more medical space on and off campus in 2012 compared to the last couple of years.
Physician practices continue to enjoin hospital system is driving demand for modern competitive space that is typically on campus of the high quality healthcare systems.
This trend bodes well for us given our experienced highly regarded medical office real estate platform with deep health system relationships coupled with the strength of our development platform.
We have a solid pipeline of medical office development opportunities in various stages of negotiations.
With regard of rents landlords are still not commanding much if any pricing power across industrial and suburban office so vacancies tightening for large Class A industrial space which should bode well for rental increases down the road.
We in fact did see some meaningful rent growth in our industrial product in the fourth quarter.
As for the operating results for our portfolio overall occupancy was 90.7% at December 31st relatively flat for the quarter yet up a 160 basis points from the yearend 2010 occupancy of 89.1% We are pleased to able to maintain this occupancy level because as I mentioned on our last call we have few large expirations in the fourth quarter including an 800 000 square foot industrial lease in Atlanta and actually expected a slight decrease in occupancy.
Better than expected leasing partially offset these expirations which combined with strong occupancy levels of our acquisitions helped us achieve our overall occupancy performance.
Additionally over the past two years we’ve improved in-service occupancy 327 basis points from 87.4% and 90.7%.
We signed over 24.5 million square feet of leases in 2011 including 5.1 million square feet during the fourth quarter.
We also achieved a lease renewal rate of 78.5% for the fourth quarter.
Our team did an excellent job in keeping existing tenants and closing on new leases.
Same property NOI for the 3 and 12 months ended December 31st was positive 4.7% and positive 3.2% respectively.
Compared to original expectations same store results were roughly 200 basis points ahead of our optimistic expectations primarily due to better than anticipated occupancy gains and our disposition of less productive assets.
Let me touch on some of the key metrics or key results of each product type for the quarter.
Our leasing activity was good in our industrial portfolio as we signed over 3.9 million square feet of leases and I'm pleased to report that our industrial portfolio remain nearly 92% leased at year end.
Specifically our Dallas industrial group completed 1.7 million square feet of leases during the quarter and 3.6 million square feet for the year improving occupancy by over 700 basis points at the end of 2010.
Our Indianapolis industrial team completed 2.8 million square feet of leasing for the year including 900 000 square feet in the fourth quarter.
Despite the challenging office sector fundamentals I previously mentioned our team performed well in 2011 executing 5.3 million square feet of leases for the year and over one million square feet in the fourth quarter holding occupancy at 85.6% from yearend 2010.
Our medical office portfolio continues to produce strong results with over 600 000 square feet of leases signed during the year.
This leasing activity coupled with our acquisitions and development successes helped to improve our medical office occupancy by almost 500 basis points during the year to 89%.
Furthermore we have a positive acquisition and development momentum as we head into 2012.
We couldn’t be more pleased with progress we made under our asset strategy during the year and the full quarter.
As you know our asset strategy is focused on the acquisition and development of high quality industrial and medical office assets in the reduction of our suburban office portfolio.
In accordance with this strategy we acquired 388 million of industrial and medical office assets totaling over 4.8 million square feet in the fourth quarter bringing total executed acquisitions to 747 million for the year.
On the disposition side proceeds from fourth quarter dispositions were $1.1 billion and $1.6 billion for the year.
We also started six new development projects during the year totaling 202 million of projected stabilized yields in the mid seven (ph) range.
As you know we are focused on acquiring the highest quality industrial medical office assets and our closed acquisitions reflect that.
In the fourth quarter we acquired 16 industrial assets and 11 medical office assets which are now all 100% leased.
On the disposition front we closed the major sale of our office portfolio to Blackstone.
The transaction closed pretty much as reported to you last quarter.
The closing of all these transactions in the fourth quarter had a major impact on our asset repositioning strategy.
At yearend our portfolio mix stands at 54% industrial 33% urban office 9% medical office and 4% retail.
As you know our goals are to be 60% industrial 25% suburban office and 15% medical office.
Over the last 24 months plus we have moved both our office and industrial percentages nearly 20%.
We made significant progress on our asset strategy well ahead of our timeframe of 2013.
Just a couple of other points to make on the fourth quarter.
We recorded an impairment charge of $12.9 million on our undeveloped land portfolio.
This impairment was a result of a renewal of our land portfolio post completion of our Blackstone sale and these impairments were primarily on land in those markets.
The second point is we recorded a severance charge of $3.4 million in the quarter.
This charge is related to an overall reduction in our company staffing as a result of the Blackstone sale in our overall outlook for our needs in 2012.
I’d now turn the call over to Christie.
Thanks very much Denny and good afternoon everyone.
Now I would like to provide an update on our 2011 financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
Despite the challenges we faced given our cloudy domestic economic climate and the rippling effect of the European debt crisis I am pleased to report that our fourth quarter and yearend 2011 core AFFO with $0.30 and $1.15 per share respectively.
We had another strong quarter and finish to the year closing 2011 $0.01 ahead of consensus estimates for the quarter and at the high of our guidance for the year.
As Dennis mentioned earlier as a result of our strong leasing performance combined with a significant progress we’ve made on our asset reposition strategy we were able to achieve 2.3% same property NOI growth.
As you can imagine our team is focused on growing rents.
Rents are holding and we are beginning to see some growth in rates.
This metric is also helped by our asset repositioning strategy including the Blackstone sale.
December was strong and we have a good level of activity heading into 2012.
Bottom-line we delivered AFFO of $0.78 per share which represents a healthy 87% dividend payout ratio and ended the year with a much better CapEx to net effective rent profile than in years passed.
As a result of our asset strategy expectation again we are positioned favorably going into 2012 as planned.
From a capital strategy perspective we completed a very successful year in which we raised over $1.6 billion from asset sales.
We were moved from negative to stable liquidity (ph) as we demonstrated our ability to execute and further strengthen our balance sheet while working to improve coverage and leverage ratios.
Specifically we reduced unsecured debt by over $500 million and redeemed a $110 million of our preferred series and stock which carried a 7.25 rate all according to plan.
We also further bolstered our liquidity by executing an early renewal of our $850 million unsecured revolving credit facility and increased the potential maximum facility size to $1.25 billion at significantly lower cost and extended the term for up to five years.
We also used the proceeds from our capital raising activities to further increase our investment in quality industrial and medical office acquisitions as we planned and we closed the year with over $210 million in cash.
As we look forward to 2012 we have $354 million of debt maturity which we plan to repay through a combination of disposition proceeds and refinancing with long term unsecured debt.
Additionally we plan to redeem our preferred series M which carries a 6.95% coupon in alignment with our capital strategy objective.
With that I will turn it back over to Dennis.
Thanks Christie.
Yesterday we announced a range for 2012 FFO per share with a midpoint of $1 and AFFO per share with a midpoint of $0.78.
Last quarter on our call in our meeting with many of you at Mary (ph) we told you that the Blackstone transaction would be $0.10 to $0.12 dilutive to FFO per share and $0.02 to $0.03 dilutive to AFFO per share.
Our FFO guidance is virtually in line with our prior communication with the additional $0.02 to $0.03 representing a decrease in our service operations primarily related to the wrap-up of our large third-party project with BRAC and DC are partially offset by additional leasing activity.
Our AFFO guidance which you know is what we focused on is actually slightly better than we communicated during the last quarter essentially equal to 2011.
This guidance really reflects what we’ve been saying for the past two years that our repositioning strategy would not be dilutive to us from an AFFO per share basis.
Now for a few specifics on some of the key performance metrics outlined in the 2012 range of estimates we provided on our website yesterday.
Our average portfolio occupancy rates for 2012 is 89.5% to 92.5%.
Lease expirations are relatively low this year at 7%.
Our guidance midpoint of 91% suggests we will continue to slowly improve our current occupancy levels consistent with forecasted slow growth in the U.S.
economy.
Same-property NOIs projected at a range of positive 2.5% growth to a negative 1.5% decline.
We had excellent performance on same property in 2011 so we are building off a bigger base.
We again assume modest occupancy and red grow in the core portfolio in 2012.
On the capital recycling front we project proceeds from building dispositions in the range of $200 million to $300 million and proceeds from land dispositions of $20 million to $30 million.
Again our disposition program will focus on suburban office assets and also some of our remaining retail.
Acquisitions are projected in the range of $300 million to $500 million.
We remain selective and focused on high-quality industrial and medical office assets.
Construction and development starts are projected in the range of $300 million to $500 million.
These will be industrial built-to-suit and medical office buildings.
Construction volume in the range of $400 million to $600 million the primary reduction compared to 2011 relates to the BRAC project which is expected to be fully complete in early 2012.
G&amp;A expenses in the range of $38 million to $43 million.
We streamlined our overhead over the past years and as I mentioned recently reduced overhead pursuant to the lower service volume and Blackstone portfolio sales transaction.
Once again I would stress that we performed exceedingly well from an operational standpoint in 2011.
We’ve also executed our asset strategy by repositioning our portfolio in a major way in high quality bulk industrial assets and medical office properties with no dilution to our AFFO per share.
I think you will all agree this has been an impressive performance by the Duke Realty team.
Thank you again for your support in 2011 and for joining us here today.
Now we will open it up for questions.
Hi thanks its Josh Attie with Michael.
Can you give us more detail on the fourth quarter acquisitions?  I know you provided an aggregate stabilized yield of 6.7%.
But can you talk about the industrial and medical office yields separately in terms of yield and maybe price versus replacement cost? Sure Josh.
Once again I think you really have – you do understand and I know that you all do the work on what our focus is there.
Again this is new modern bulk facilities on the industrial side focused in the key distribution markets.
Our acquisitions in the fourth quarter were primarily in Chicago and Dallas with one again additional building out in Southern California that’s part of a bigger package.
These are all as we said fully leased primarily on long term leases the high credit tenants.
Therefore that’s in the range the cap rate range that we’ve disclosed.
I would also say there is a huge difference in the cap rates on bulk industrial and the medical office just because of the type of prosperities we’re acquiring.
On the medical office most of the acquisitions were in Texas in the fourth quarter some in Houston a couple of buildings in San Antonio with an expanding relationship with Christus Healthcare System again all fully leased properties long term leases significant hospital credit on all of those properties.
How competitive are you finding the acquisition market? Well I think the acquisition market for those type of properties is still very competitive but we were I think fortunate to be able to do some of these in a relatively off market way with our connections that we have obviously getting just within the whole industrial business and then with our connections we have with the healthcare systems we are able to do some of these in an off market way and I would say probably 50% of what we did was in more off market type transaction.
Just as an example I mentioned Christus transaction.
We did competitively bid a medical office building with them in San Antonio and we were the successful bidder.
Then they came to us and asked us if we would like to acquire a portfolio of some properties down in Houston in Katy on one of their hospital campuses.
So we ended up acquiring three properties down in Katy at what I would consider a below market deal.
We also acquired some medical office properties in Indiana with the St.
Francis Healthcare System we have an ongoing relationship with that was not a marketed deal.
We acquired another medical office building in Indianapolis from St.
Vincent which is part of the extension system.
That was an on market deal.
We are really using all of our resources to find the kind of deals we are looking for Josh.
As you think about future acquisitions how aggressively do you want to expand into some of the lower cap rate markets like southern California? Well I think we’ve continued to say that we want to have a presence in the southern California market.
But I think you know we’ve been very cautious and really moved very slowly there we’ve only got two assets.
We’re going to continue to look at that market.
Again as we really convert us to be premier industrial REIT and focused on the bulk industrial we’ve said we really believe we need to have a presence in the southern California market because a lot of our customers do business there.
If you want to do business with those customers in southern California you need to have that presence.
Again we are not looking to go in there in a huge investment way but we want to continue to have a presence and grow slowly over time as we see good opportunities for us.
Okay thank you very much.
Thanks Josh.
Hi it’s Gabe Hemohi (ph) with Ross.
Just on the 2012 AFFO guidance can you talk a little bit about expectations for leasing and a maintenance CapEx especially following the closing of the Blackstone sale? Sure.
I think we’ve mentioned regularly as we talk about our re-positioning strategy one of the reasons for repositioning out of the suburban office portfolio is that it’s very CapEx intensive.
I think you can see that again we are really – as we now have much more industrial property we would anticipate the capital expenditures our second generation re-leasing capital expenditures overall from a company point of view to go down very significantly in 2012.
And by very significantly I think we can anticipate a decrease of 20% to 25% in the overall second generation capital expenditures that we have to make as a company.
Once again when you think about that I believe that our guidance really supports that.
As we said the repositioning would be dilutive on an FFO basis but virtually non-dilutive flat to even maybe accretive on an AFFO basis because of the reduction in these capital expenditures.
And Christie I'm not sure if I heard this correctly but on the preferred redemption is that still expected to get done or is that no longer on the table.
It is still expected to get done.
I think Ross maybe had a follow-up to go.
Yeah hi guys I have got two follow-ups for you.
The first is with respect to your same-store NOI growth guidance for 2012.
Could you break out what the same store revenue and same store expense expectations are? You know we don’t have that actually in front of us Ross but I think if you look at the statistics in the fourth quarter results again that portfolio that is showing up in our supplemental package now in the fourth quarter is really post the Blackstone sale.
So in another words those properties are out because they were sold before the end of the quarter.
I think if you look at the relative ratio of revenue and expense growth that we were showing in the fourth quarter I think it would be similar to that but we can follow-up also and get you that information.
Yeah I appreciate it.
Only because when I look at it the fourth quarter numbers in particular the expense growth trend for the industrial portfolio is only up 1.3% for office.
It was actually down year-over-year 1.9 and those don’t look to me to be – they help you in 2011 my guess is they are not going to be as helpful in 2012 in getting to the bottom-line in a line number.
Is that a fair guess? Well I think it gets to be more complicated than that because you have to look at – if you look at the industrial business – most of the tenants pay their expenses directly.
There is just not a lot of expenses there and you know the modest growth makes total sense to me.
On the office side again I think you have to look at kind of the combination of expenses but again a lot of that get to pass through so you see some things in the expense sign that also really have an effect in the revenue side.
In other words expenses are going down and I don’t have an answer for you immediately as why our fourth quarter expenses went down a little bit.
That means our revenue went down because we didn’t bill those back to the tenants.
I think it really has a corresponding effect and through this we internally here don’t pay a whole lot of attention to the components.
We disclose that because you all like to look at them but we don’t really pay a lot of attention because we are looking at the net bottom line result.
Okay second question.
I don’t know if I missed this.
Did you comment on what your releasing spreads expectations are particularly for the bulk industrial portfolio this year? I don’t think that I did mention that.
But I think when you look – I think in some of the comments in our prepared statement we are not looking for huge run rate growth heading into 2012.
I think we’ve done very well.
If you look back quarter by quarter throughout 2012 and it’s laid out in the supplemental package we had improved every quarter.
We are starting to see some positive rent spreads on the industrial side which I anticipate holding positive heading into 2012 but I don’t see huge increases again.
So I think we will see positive spreads in the zero to 3% or 4% range.
On the office it just depends what market we are in but I still think we will probably see some negative pressure but again I don’t think those are going to be huge negative spreads but in the 0 to 5% range.
Overall I think with our mix in property now being much more industrial we will sort of see an overall positive spread in 2010 but I don’t think it’s going to be a huge spread.
And just to clarify is that cash or GAAP you are referring to? GAAP.
We always look at net effective rent so we take into account all the free rent periods.
That’s what I thought.
Okay final question.
I got a couple of your investors asking me this morning and I know the small component of the portfolio but MOBs and retail the same store growth in the fourth quarter was off the chart was this just the occupancy gains or was there anything other than the occupancy gains causing this? In the retail would have been occupancy gains and free rent burn off a combination.
In the MOBs it’s multi-occupancy gains.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Going back to your guidance could you provide cash same-store NOI growth expectations for 2012? And could you also talk about if you look at your expirations that are occurring what vintage year is expiring for industrial and office on average? Well first of all the same store guidance we provide is cash.
That’s how we report same store.
It’s all just on cash NOI basis.
So the number that we disclosed in our range of estimates is in cash basis.
Second as we mentioned we have only got about 7% of our leases expiring this year and on an average I would say those are between probably 4.5 and 6 years.
Going back that’s the average needs expiration terms even.
Okay and last question.
How much G&amp;A are you capitalizing and given that your construction volume is coming down for construction services how are you accounting for that and how much of that can you possibly see come back into the income statement? Well none is going to come back into the income statement.
It never has.
I mean we have been holding and we have been saying this for probably the last four years at least that we adjust our overhead cost accordingly to the bright sides of our business.
As we go forward and our business changes we have no choice but to adjust our cost.
I think that’s really being reflected by our G&amp;A expense when you look at it again over the last four years I would say that G&amp;A has been relatively flat.
We have actually gotten to go down a little bit but we have been anywhere from I would say $39 to $43 or $44 million (indiscernible) consistently for the last four or five years and we pay obviously quite a bit of attention to that and we adjust our total overhead structure to account for the changes within our business and we’ll continue to do that.
So that number is not going to fluctuate.
So you are saying you don’t capitalize G&amp;A just to be clear.
No there is – some of our overhead is capitalized.
No we don’t capitalize G&amp;A but we keep our G&amp;A at the same level.
Okay.
I'm not sure if you talked about it but what is the yield difference between what you are going to buy and sell for 2012 roughly? Well we have been saying again through this whole repositioning strategy that we thought – that we believed on a cash on cash or AFFO basis that our dispositions and acquisitions would be within about 100 basis points so it would be about 100 basis points or so or maybe even a little less on.
There will be a little bit of dilution going from the suburban office to the bulk industrial and medical office on an AFFO basis.
The truth is if you go back to I guess about $2.5 billion or so of transactions on both disposition and acquisition side over the last two plus years it’s been right at about that 100 basis point dilution to move $2.5 billion of suburban office into the industrial and medical office.
All right thank you Denny.
Good afternoon.
Denny just a question on the investment strategy for industrial.
A lot of what you acquired was stabilized but of course the trends have been pretty strong particularly in the fourth quarter.
Are you getting to the point yet that you are taking lease-up risk on an acquisition or on the development side are there any market that you build out and it’s back? We are really not focused on taking lease-up risk on the acquisition side today.
We’ve really been focused on again well prioritized but particularly the bulk industrial.
Okay have newer assets with high credit terms longer term leases and I think that just helps balance our portfolio.
You know we still have a fair amount of vacancy out there.
We are about 92% lease in our 107 million square feet of industrial so we’ve still got some vacancy risk in that bulk industrial portfolio and we really are inclined to add to that risk.
What we’ve been saying for the past couple of quarters as people started talking about spec industrial we said generally speaking we aren’t there yet and I would still say we aren’t there yet.
We are as I mentioned we focus a lot of discussions on building suit industrial properties.
I would say we are sort of looking at couple of markets where spec industrial might make some sense later this year but there would be nothing imminent from us on the spec industrial side.
Okay.
Just a question on the office dispositions.
Do you have anything in the market today and then is the pricing fairly consistent with what you sold with the Blackstone transaction? Yeah we closed in January about a $44 $45 million sale in Raleigh of some non-strategic assets.
We are not getting out of Raleigh office.
It’s a great market that we had.
Four or five just non strategic assets or either older assets are not in our core sub markets.
We closed on that.
That pricing was very similar I think to the Blackstone pricing maybe a little better but close.
We do have other properties in the market.
Today when you think about our office portfolio it’s really concentrated first of all on the east coast in Washington D.C.
Raleigh and then southern Florida over in Broward County and we are really not looking to move any of that product other than what we just sold in Raleigh.
Those markets again are still holding up well.
The other three office markets basically that we have today are St.
Louis Indianapolis and Cincinnati with again just a little bit in Nashville.
For the most part our targeted dispositions we still have some take us from that 33% down to the 25%.
Those are going to be concentrated on some of our older assets primarily in Cincinnati in St.
Louis.
Anyhow we’ve got various packages that we are working and in getting out into the market and some packages that are already flowing around in the market.
We will continue to move in that direction.
That’s helpful.
Just one quick one for Christie.
Beyond the series and redemption is there any plan for further debt pay down over 2012? Yes Sloan we will definitely take a look at what we might be able to do from a de-leathering perspective according to the capital strategy.
So we are very focused on achieving our target that we’ve set out to do here and so you can expect more of that from us provided that we can execute in accordance with our asset strategy as we’ve done in the past.
I think 2011 is a good example of what we are able to do.
Okay thank you guys.
Thanks Sloan.
Thank you.
Denny I just wanted to follow-up on Josh Attie’s question on the yield split out between the different property types in the fourth quarter.
I know you disclosed stabilized return of 6.74%.
And then in your comments you said that industrial was in the range.
I wasn’t quite sure what range you were referring to and then if you – I didn’t catch if you split out where medical office came in? You know John I didn’t really split that out and I guess what I said is I think the range – the cap rates are pretty comparable for the quarter on those two property types.
Maybe it’s 10 basis points lower for our bulk industrial and 10 basis points higher for the medical office.
But again if you look at the profile of those properties again we are basically 100% lease properties new properties high credit.
Today the markets for the bulk industrial and the medical office the cap rates for those kinds of properties are pretty darn close.
Okay that’s helpful thank you.
Just given that there are almost entire released what is the growth expectation or your expected IRR on that series of acquisition? Well we focus on acquiring some properties that have – with the leases in place that have red bumps in them.
So we are generating future NOI growth in those properties and virtually all of those properties have annual red bumps in them built into the existing leases probably in the range of 2% to 3% something like that on an annual basis.
That’s what you can expect from those acquisitions.
Okay.
And the three industrial asset sales that you highlighted in the first lease during the quarter I'm sure there was a story to them.
How does that deal with the asset strategy? We’ve got one building I'm trying to get the list here John to remember one building in Dallas I know that was a vacant building that was probably a 25 to 30 year old building that we’ve owned for many years since we first got into Dallas back in 1999 and so we sold that.
And then we had in Indianapolis another 300 000 square foot building that again we built as a build-to-suit back in 1984 I believe and we had a user come in and acquire that building.
Then we also sold a small portfolio of three home – sort of flexi buildings up way north of Alpharetta in Atlanta and we just sold those because we have nothing else close to those and they really weren’t the big bulk industrial building.
Again strategically we are always looking through the portfolio and seeing what it makes sense to sell at any one time and couple of those things were either held for sale or leased.
So that’s similar to the one that we sold in Dallas.
That is helpful thank you.
Lastly Christie can you help us understand what’s the hold up on the series M.
We have something tied up with $200 million cash on the balance sheet why wouldn’t you just take that out today? Due to timing John nothing specific and we were also just looking opportunistically at what our net acquisition pipeline look like which I had indicated was quite strong.
Just from a prudent perspective we wanted to make sure that we were taking advantage of all the opportunities out there.
When should we expect to see that redemption? Shortly.
Thanks good afternoon.
Question for either Denny or Christie.
Looking at the guidance you guys have very low roll over as you highlighted I think it’s only 7% for 2012.
I don’t know it’s a little bit a surprise that maybe occupancy wouldn’t move up higher.
Are you expecting either a low level of new leasing activity for 2012 or lower than average renewal rates for ’12? No I think when you look at what our expectation are today we are kind of expecting the same sort of overall net absorption for 2012 that we had in 2011 and again if you think about it we were up about one plus percent when taking 2011 and I think the guidance that we gave for 2012 shows this up about 1% that’s still a pretty significant amount of net absorption even with only 7% expiring you just have to do quite a bit of leasing.
To pick up that 1% when you’ve got 140 million square foot portfolio now.
Is there renewal rate what are you guys expecting for renewals overall? I mean how does that kind of compare to where you guy have been in the past? I mean you’ll see the renewal – first of all the overall actual renewal rate is very similar to what we’ve had in the past.
We always run 75% to 80% we were down a little bit in the first part of last year which we knew we were going to be with a couple of larger expirations on the industrial side.
But I think you’ll see us running in that 70% to 80%.
And then on the run rate growth as I mentioned a little earlier I think mostly flat to slightly positive run rate growth overall in 2012.
And then Denny forgive me if I'm missing something here.
But aren’t you only kind of moving occupancy up 30 basis points or so aren’t you at around 90.7 today and you are looking at 91% as average for ’12? Yeah.
I think it’s a little bit higher than that when you look and you factor in some of the effects of some of our short term leases in the month to month leases.
We never know whether they are going to stay or not Brendan.
It’s really probably closer to 1% or 1.2%.
Sure.
And for the AFFO guides do you guys think that that number is being helped out disproportionately because you have got lower rollovers this year or – I mean I understand that it’s getting better because of the Blackstone transaction and not having the 10 million square feet of suburban office this year versus last year.
But on a kind of same store basis do you think that TIs and leasing commissions are going down on a comparable space basis.
Do you think there are static do you think they are moving up can you give us any color on that? Well I would say first of all I mean it’s helped maybe slightly but I only have 7% but we typically run about 11 maybe 10% to 11%.
So it’s not a huge difference overall.
I do think it’s being helped out obviously by the sale of the suburban office portfolio.
But what I would also say is generally speaking the CapEx profile for us is improving more quickly on the bulk industrial side.
So the CapEx as a percent of net effective rent the way we track it is getting better on the industrial side much more quickly than it is on the office side and now with a much smaller office portfolio the trend is going to be better on the outside for us.
Okay that’s helpful.
Last one on the land and the impairment maybe I'm missing this but it looks like your balance sheet your land balance actually moved up by not much but maybe 300 000 400 000 500 000 something like that.
Is that net of – did you guys acquire land in the quarter and is that net of the $12.9 million write off? Yeah it’s on that.
We did acquire just a small piece really in Dallas when it came in connection with a couple of building portfolio acquisition that we did there was some land adjacent.
The truth is we are virtually out of bulk industrial land in Dallas anyway so it was a good acquisitions on the land side for us there up in great line.
The land balance that you are showing I mean the acquisition that you are showing stripped out the land out of the basis right for the 6 7 4 cap rate is exclusive of the land? That’s correct.
Okay.
Can you give us a sense it was at the 98 acres of land or was there something more than that in the acquisitions in the quarter? I think that was it.
That was it I think Brendan.
That was it okay and it was about 13 million or something? Yeah it sounds right.
Denny just following up on some of your comments earlier in some questions regarding especially the development in industrial.
I think if you look at the Class A large block space in a lot of your higher quality market vacancies in those assets might some 5%.
When you compare with your buying to what you could build for today how far off on the development yield do you think you are and how rapidly has that been coming in if at all for that narrow subset of I guess what you would like going forward? Sure Dave.
I would tell you I guess first of all starting with what we’ve been buying versus what we can build for we’ve been paying a lot of attention to replacement cost.
I think we’ve been buying pretty close to replacement cost at all of our acquisitions but particularly we look at that on the bulk industrial side.
It’s pretty close.
And now I think when you think about that buying in high fixed cap rate for bulk industrial with a tenant in place long term leases good locations to take the spec development risk you really need a couple of hundred basis points above that before you are going to take that spec development risk.
So I don’t think rents are at the point where we are going to see that 200 basis point spread at this point in time until we see a little bit more rent growth.
There might be a couple of markets that are exceptions to that but not many.
Then the other thing I would say is what happens is everybody starts looking at vacancy rates within a market and say okay well when it gets to 5 or 6 or 4% percent vacancy then we are going to start building.
Well we pay attention to that but the other thing we really look at is what’s the demand.
So it may stabilize at 5% or 6% vacancy but there may not be a whole lot of demand behind that to fill up vacant space.
If anybody in our company wants to start a speculative development project they better have a long list of prospects before they come talk to me about it.
I think that’s the one piece people are missing today is that backlog of great activity which still is not built up like we would see in any kind of the normal time.
Okay.
Christie a follow up for you as well and thanks for that color Denny.
An earlier comment you had made Christie I think related to taking out additional prefers throughout the year and improving the balance sheet you had made a comment depending on what happens on the asset market you would look to do more or less of that.
It’s also that perhaps you are tracking more of the long term unsecured debt market or perhaps the term loan market and I would love to know kind of where you be comfortable calling in those additional preferreds given what’s happening in the various debt markets.
Yes I think Dave just to clarify I was specifically referring to unsecured and our activities to pay down unsecured maturities.
As it relates to preferred I would love to be able to take down the oath but we are not able to redeem them until 2013.
I think just from perspective I am comfortable with the level of preferreds that we currently have.
As I stated previously we have really been focused on taking down our more expensive preferreds and as it relates to what we are looking to do at the end those were at 6.95 and then we’ve taken down everything above that and we plan to do so with the others as well.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Yeah thank you.
Denny you had mentioned in your prepared remarks that you are having a number of discussions with tenants about doing build-to-suit industrial projects but tenants are still slow in making those decisions.
Do you get a sense on what’s sort of holding those tenants up right now because as you mentioned it seems like the industrial metrics are sort of pushing in the right way do you get a sense of again what’s maybe holding them from making those decisions right now? Well I can’t say anything for sure Dave but my sense is it’s still just the uncertainty.
You know everybody is still – there is still a fair amount of uncertainty with everybody about where their business is headed in 2012.
Because things are not as we keep saying and we all know things are picking up but there is just not a lot of momentum behind that.
I think it’s just – most companies are really taking a look they are monitoring it almost on a day to day basis and really being extremely cautious before they pull the trigger.
So just for some perspective on that in a normal time on a bulk industrial build-to-suit building your discussions might last two or three months from the time you start talking to somebody till the time you are ready to sign a lease and get going.
Today these things are taking six or nine months then they may go on hold for three months and then they may come back and take another three months.
So it’s just really a different environment and it’s just a sense of cautiousness on the part of users and I think just overall uncertainty as to where their businesses are going.
And you said just answering the previous question about how deep a demand pool you would need to sort of start a specular (ph) project.
Can you categorize how maintenance or how deep the pipeline is on the build-to-suit side right now.
I mean could you see sort of a flood gate open if we get a little bit more sustainability and confidence in the economy? Well I think where we are in the cycle in industrial is again – as I think somebody mentioned earlier in one of their questions in most markets a lot of the large vacant blocks have been taken up.
In most markets if you are looking for something over a half million square feet there aren’t a whole lot of choices if any.
You look at the under 200 000 square feet then there are still a fair amount of choices out there.
What’s going to happen is as users come along I think the first area you are going to see is build-to-suit in the larger spaces.
Because in most markets today you are not going to see developers go out and start 800 000 square foot spec building you know a million square foot spec building.
So at this point in the market when user needs 600 000 square feet to a million square feet it’s probably going to be a build-to-suit.
Again I would tell you the discussions that we are having with folks out there are all on the larger both industrial buildings and so again I think that’s where we will see the build-to-suit activity and then we’ll see that build-to-suit activity for a period of time and then as the market and economy if hopefully some day it gets back to more of a normal position then you will see the build-to-suit level of activity decline and the amount of spec building go up including on the larger spaces.
Okay.
Then my last question is the 800 000 square foot tenant in Atlanta that you lost the industrial vacancy did you get any specific commentary about what you are leasing prospects are there to sort of back fill that space? Yeah we are talking to two or three people at least one for the entire space.
I mean it’s a huge backlog but there are some discussions going on.
Okay that’s helpful thank you.
Good afternoon everyone.
I’ve just got a follow-up question on the acquisition side in light of the pipeline of deals that you are tracking right now I mean should we be thinking about the $300 million to $500 million coming earlier in the year or later in the year and same thing on a disposition side.
Now you said you had $45 million that closed early in January.
But for the rest of the year how should we be thinking about that? Well I guess first of all on the acquisition side we did close about a $50 million medical office acquisition also in the first month here up in Chicago.
So those kind of offset and then if you look at the rest of them I would say if you think about acquisitions it’s probably going to be fairly balanced throughout the rest of the year.
We’ve got discussions in progress and things going on now but I don’t see it weighted more heavily towards first part of the year or the second part of the year.
Dispositions I think will probably be a little bit more weighted towards the second half of the year.
But again we’ve only our guidance is – compared to obviously the past couple of years our guidance on the building disposition is somewhat more modest at 200 to 300 since we’ve already closed $44 million wherever you put them isn’t going to have a huge effect.
Okay.
And then just going back I thought I heard Christie you mention looking to replace pending mortgages with unsecured was that correct? No you didn’t Vince.
Okay.
I'm sorry then.
In terms of the mortgage maturity is the plan there just to pay them off as they come due? Yes pay them off or extend maturities out another tenure long term.
Okay.
Get some attractive tenure indicative pricing out there.
Okay.
Thinking about the lease expirations not very much this year in 2012 but from what you have seen – I mean are there any cores where you are tracking from potential large move outs like you’ve had in a couple of quarters here in 2011? No not really.
Even as you look to the whole year there aren’t any real sizable lease expirations out there.
I would say the largest one on the industrial side this year is probably 400 000 square feet range.
Okay that’s helpful.
I think that was it from me thanks.
Yeah.
Denny just wanted to come to (indiscernible) the loan high which you have deemed to be pessimistic and optimistic.
Can you just sort of as you think about that sort of terminology what sort of economic growth is a pessimistic scenario that would move the company towards the low end of guidance and what’s sort of the optimistic scenario.
I'm just trying to figure out that terminology of using that terminology in your guidance what’s sort of driving that? Sure Michael.
I would first of all go back to probably our conversation or what we were saying about a year ago.
If you looked at a year ago most economists and most folks were predicting for 2011 2.5 maybe 3 at the beginning of the year percent GDP growth.
Quite honestly we weren’t that optimistic and unfortunately we were I think closer than most people.
We were kind of thinking in the 1.5% to 2% range and that’s a really a lot closer to where we ended up.
Today I think people again are probably in that 2% to 2.5% range.
I think we are probably in that range for kind of the – if you are looking at the midpoint between the pessimistic and the optimistic in that 2% to 2.5% range.
So to me our pessimistic side would be as if we see like very little GDP growth so 0% to 0.5%.
Our optimistic would be if we probably see 2.5% to 3% because it doesn’t take as much on the upside to actually improve because we've been cautious and cover ourselves on the downside so it would have to fall further us to get close to that bottom.
So those are the kind of numbers we’re thinking about Michael.
I just wanted to clarify within an occupancy line there is a bullet point that says outside the guidance driven by lease up of portfolio is that upside optimistic end or – I just didn’t know what that was in reference to? Yeah I think that’s right.
Upside between the midpoint and getting above the midpoint and maybe even higher than the optimistic would be really just we would exceed our leasing expectations for the year.
So that’s timing of when you get to a certain occupancy level but also exceeding the 92.5 average occupancy for the year? Yes definitely.
It really – you mentioned it here but I just want to point out timing of leasing on average occupancy is huge.
Again the more leasing we get done in the first quarter it just has obviously a huge multiplier effect on our average for the year.
If we can see some really good strong activity in the first quarter then – it certainly makes that optimistic side or above a lot more achievable.
These are the 89.5 to 92.5 is that your average in-service occupancy on the total portfolio i.e.
135 million square feet or just your share effectively the joint ventures and the holio (ph) and the 110 million square feet? It’s on a 100 percent.
100 percent.
Just going to back to Brendan’s question the 89.7 was the average but you ended the year 90.7.
What you’re saying is embedded in that 90.7 is 75 bps to 100 bps of short term leases that are going to come out of the portfolio at the beginning of the year? Well you’re exactly right that there is 75 to 100 bps of occupancy in that short term.
We never know what they are going to come out Michael unfortunately that just makes it hard to predict.
Our average guidance the way we do it assumes they come out some time during the year.
Some probably earlier in the year rather than later because if they are in there for three months and they expire at the end of January or end of February at this point in time in that guidance we’re probably taking a mile.
Right.
So the reality is – even if you’re starting at 90.7 it sounds like even if you have some of these short terms leases not coming out for a little while to get down towards the bottom half of this guidance range would take a much more difficult leasing scenario and you’d have to lose a lot more and not retain as much tenants even with a low rollover in which case getting to a 91.1% to the midpoint of the occupancy seems a good target at least as a base line? Yes I mean that’s clearly – yes.
That’s correct Michael.
The only other comment I would make is whatever we put what we call the pessimistic here downside however you want to describe it we’re also saying well that could be affected on occupancy but a number of these metrics just by defaults.
So if tenants – we only have 7% of our portfolio leases expiring during the year but if you get a couple of tenant defaults in there that can also have an effect on that average occupancy.
Okay.
And then lastly you used to have and you stopped this at the beginning of ’10 your internal overhead cost summary where you broke out G&amp;A both from what was P&amp;L what went to the services what went to rental operations and then how much you are capitalizing both for construction and development and what you are capitalizing for internal leasing cost.
Can you just give us a sense the last time you had put out the numbers you had about call it $20 million that was capitalized for construction development and about $25 million for internal leasing that was back in ’09.
Where do those numbers sort of shake out today for ’11 but also as you think about 2012? Well let me talk about – I guess if I look at 2011 I think – I would just relate this to you as to our total overhead focus.
As I mentioned earlier I think when Ki Bin asked the question our G&amp;A has stayed relatively flat and that’s the number we obviously monitor to make sure that we’re not at an overhead level that’s causing that G&amp;A go up.
But just to put in perspective I would say roughly 2010 and 2011 were relatively flat on an overall overhead basis.
Heading into 2012 we probably reduced our total overhead costs by probably $12 million to $15 million.
If you look at total overhead costs that’s probably down.
We’re probably 30% to 35% below where we were back in 2010.
And then it dropped down some in 2011 and now it’s dropping down even further in 2012.
So basically since what I am getting at is if the overall overhead pool has dropped by that kind of percentage and basically our G&amp;A has stayed relatively flat that means the amount of overhead where capitalizing has also dropped by the amount of our overall overhead reduction if that made any sense.
That complicated explanation I just gave you is one of the reasons we took that schedule out.
But I think you understand what I mean Mike.
Yes okay thank you.
Yeah thanks just a quick follow up.
The 45 millionish asset sale the Raleigh assets that closed in January is that early in the discontinue ops did you had them in Q4.
Yes.
It is.
Okay thanks.
Okay.
Thank you everybody and we look forward to talking to you at the end of next quarter if we don’t see you at one of our meetings before then.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Duke Realty Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and then later we’ll have a quarter-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder the conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Ron Hubbard.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Christie Kelly Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Denien Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2011 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments during the quarter in both our operational and asset strategies.
Christie will then address our first quarter financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
Then I’ll finish up with our prepared remarks with some comments about our outlook for the remainder of 2012.
By all accounts the first quarter was a great success for Duke Reality and I am very proud of our team for their accomplishments.
We signed over 8.7 million square feet of leases in the first quarter the highest quarterly total in 5 years.
We have positive net absorption during the quarter of nearly 3.7 million square feet which rivals our annual net absorption for both 2010 and 2011.
We increased our overall occupancy by 144 basis points to 92.11% which believe it or not is our highest level of overall occupancy since the first quarter of 1997.
We started development of a $121 million of 100% long-term lease industrial and medical office projects which will have an average initial stabilize yield of 7.05%.
We completed $157 million and $65 million of strategic acquisitions and dispositions respectively.
We made continued progress on our asset repositioning strategy.
And finally we issued a $147 million of new common equity and redeemed a $168 million of our preferred shares reducing our overall leverage in accordance with our capital strategy.
From the macro perspective we’ve been pleasantly surprised with the momentum in economic and consumer and business sentiment which appears to be improving the confidence in our customers to execute new renewal or expansion lease decisions as well as execute construction and development transactions.
Absorption and occupancies continued to trend up in bulk industrial and medical office but suburban office continues to tread water with the recovery still a number of quarters in the distance.
We are hopeful that the steady economic up tick will continue.
They will give us still elevated macroeconomic and geopolitical risk in the Europe and the Middle East.
And given the looming political showdown here in the U.S.
this fall we know there are still continued risks to our business.
Fortunately the execution of our asset and capital strategies the last few years have placed Duke Realty in a strong position for future growth as well as being better able to weather volatility from occasional macroeconomic shocks.
We also renewed 84% of our leases during the quarter and attained an overall rental rate growth on these renewals of 1.8%.
We achieved positive same property NOI for the three and 12 months ended March 31 a 4.7% and 3.6% respectively.
Other than retail all product type….
The national industrial market continues to slow improvement with demand drivers improving on all fronts.
Early indication show first quarter vacancy levels decline to another 10 basis points or so down 20% to 30% 30 basis points in some of our key markets such as Atlanta and Indianapolis.
Rental rate growth is relatively flat nationwide but some pricing power has returned in select markets.
Another recent data point is that the Georgia Port Authority hit an all time cargo tonnage record in March growing at significant 8% over the same period a year ago which we expect to bode well for our dominant position in Savannah.
With respect to leasing in our in-service portfolio we completed over 2.8 million square feet of new industrial leases and approximately 3 million square feet of renewal leases including new leases on development build-to- suits our industrial leases totaled over 7.4 million square feet a record industrial leasing quarter for the company.
This leasing activity increased our overall industrial occupancy to 93.6% at March 31.
Some of our larger lease deals included the signing of a new deal to back sort of 1.1 million square foot distribution center in Atlanta that was vacated at year-end.
The tenant is Carter’s a major children’s clothing retailer who used the facility for their growing Internet sales distribution.
This was a great transaction for us as the space was only vacant for three months.
The rental rate on this deal was very competitive but we get nice rent increases and our tenant retrofit cost to backfill this space for 11 years was very low at under $2 per square foot.
We also signed leases totaling almost 1.4 million square feet on two build-to-suit development project which I’ll discuss shortly.
Finally we executed an expansion in renewal industrial lease totaling 321 000 square feet with Ashland Chemical a Fortune 500 company at our World Park complex in Cincinnati.
The office leasing environment continues to be challenging as expected.
Occupancy levels continue to be in the 85% to 86% range as they have been for the last year.
Total office leasing for the quarter was 1.1 million square feet with average renewal rents growing just 0.5%.
We did sign a sizable expansion and renewal in Washington D.C.
with a major tenant Citor in our building in the Westfields.
On the medical office front leasing activity and development opportunities continue to gain traction.
Our medical office portfolio occupancy increased by 115 basis points from year end to 90.1% and we started one new development projects which will – I’ll cover in a minute.
Healthcare providers appear to be gaining more confidence in their growth prospects and are pulling the trigger on expansion plans.
We have a solid backlog of leasing and development prospects for the remainder of 2012.
We also made good progress on our asset strategy during the quarter.
We acquired $157 million of properties.
These acquisitions included a two building 1 million square foot bulk industrial portfolio in Columbus Ohio that is 86% leased to three tenants.
We also acquired an 827 000 square foot bulk industrial facility in Chicago that is 100% leased to Crate &amp; Barrel.
The rest of the acquisition activity was in medical office.
We acquired a portfolio of three medical office buildings in Cincinnati from an existing customer.
The buildings totaled a 109 000 square feet and are 100% leased for 15 years to Bethesda North Hospital.
We also acquired a 105 000 square foot medical office building in Chicago that is 100% leased for 19 years to Loyola University Medical Center.
Disposition activity was relatively light this quarter with $65.3 million sold of which 46.2 million was from seven suburban office assets which were only 81% leased and $17.5 million from six non-strategic mostly flex industrial assets in the rest from land.
The non-core suburban office industrial dispositions comprised approximately 458 000 and 735 000 square feet respectively and had a weighted average age of over 21 years.
Now turning to development I am pleased to report that our development starts this quarter are off to the strongest start in several years.
A testament to what we believe is a best-in-class development platform.
We began 1.5 million square feet of 100% pre-lease industrial and medical projects consistent with our asset and operating strategy.
In total at the end of the quarter we have 2.4 million square feet across nine projects underway that are over 96% pre-leased in the aggregate.
During the quarter one new industrial development was started in Middletown Delaware totaling just over 1 million square feet which is a 100% pre-leased for 12 years.
One new medical office development was also started a 117 000 square foot facility in Tampa which is a 100% leased to the VA for 20 years.
And we started a 375 000 square foot industrial project in Indianapolis that is 100% pre-leased to a global manufacturing company Regal Beloit for 10 years.
I’m also pleased to report that in April we executed another 100% lease new medical office building in Central Texas with an estimated project cost of just over $43 million.
We also have a solid backlog of industrial build suite and medical office development opportunities which we’re working on.
We’re also planning to move forward on a 421 000 square foot speculative industrial building on the site that we own in Chino California.
This project is in the Inland Empire West submarket where the occupancy rate is over 93% and there is very little land to develop.
As we’ve alluded to you on the previous call this is one of the first markets that would make sense to develop speculatively.
We’re also considering other markets for speculative bulk development but those starts were likely be very limited for the rest of this year.
So as I said from an operational perspective the first quarter was an excellent quarter.
And now I’ll turn our call over to Christie to discuss our financial results for the quarter.
Thanks Denny.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I’d like to provide an update on our first quarter financial performance as well as progress on our capital strategy.
Our first quarter 2012 Core FFO was $0.24 per share.
The decrease in Core FFO per share from the fourth quarter of 2011 was expected and was reflected in our 2012 guidance and result from Blackstone sale transaction which closed in December and reduction in third party construction income as a result of the substantial completion of the BRAC third party construction project in 2011 which was also anticipated.
For the quarter we generated $0.20 per share in AFFO which translates into a dividend payout ratio of 85%.
AFFO for the quarter was equal to the fourth quarter of 2011 also $0.20 per share and up from the $0.19 per share recorded in the first quarter of 2011.
As we’ve communicated previously our asset repositioning strategy is not expected to be dilutive on an AFFO per share basis because we’re reducing our overall investment in the CapEx intensive suburban office property.
We’re bearing this out with quarter-to-quarter equal AFFO even with billion dollar sales (indiscernible).
Overall we are pleased with our operating results for the quarter and the momentum we’re heading into the rest of the year.
With regard to the execution of our capital strategy we executed 10.8 million shares of common stock pursuant to our previously disclosed ATM program at an average price of $13.93 which generated net proceeds of $147 million during the quarter.
Given the strong acquisition activity the increasing funding needs for the development pipeline and our commitment to our de-levering we thought it was an opportunistic time to dribble a moderate amount of equity into the market.
As you’re aware the ATM is highly efficient and cost effective and can be well matched with the size and timing of funding with the nature of our investment.
Going forward we will renew the ATM at approximately the same level and again intend to use it opportunistically as our business warrants.
We also generated $65.3 million in proceeds for non-strategic asset dispositions during the quarter.
We also effectively utilized the remaining proceeds from the Blackstone transaction in accordance with the strategy we’ve laid out for the announcement of that sale.
On March 5 2012 we redeemed our $168 million of 6.95% Series M Preferred Shares which result in the $2.9 million ongoing quarterly reduction to preferred dividend.
In addition to funding the redemption of the Series M Preferred Shares we also utilized our available cash to complete $157 million in acquisitions as well as to fund our continued development activity.
At the end of the quarter we had no borrowings outstanding on our line of credit and $15 million of cash available with manageable debt maturities for the remainder of the year totaling $373 million.
I will conclude by saying that I’m very happy with our progress in the first quarter as we continue to execute in all assets of our strategy.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Den.
Thanks Christie.
Yesterday we also reaffirmed our guidance for FFO per share of $0.94 to a $1.06 for all of 2012.
There are number of moving pieces as a result of all of our activity but the suffice it to say that our subtle leasing activity in the first quarter is providing positive momentum but we still have a long way to go to finish the year.
We remain comfortable with the range of estimates for our key operating metrics we provided to you in January but we do believe we will be near the high-end of our average occupancy because of our strong start and the fact that we have only 5% of our leases expiring during the remainder of the year.
So we are really really pleased with our start to 2012.
We see some signs of the positive momentum is carry over into the second quarter which gives us a general outlook that 2012 will be another great year for us.
Thanks again for your support to Duke Realty and now we will open it up for questions.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Could you talk about some of the yields that you are getting on the development projects and can you talk separately about industrial versus medical office? Sure Josh.
Again when you look at the kind of development projects that we’re doing right now these are basically build-to-suit projects that we’ve started so far.
They all have long-term leases.
I think the shortest lease term we did with a new development this quarter was a 12-year lease.
So there isn’t at this point in time it’s a little hard to say whether there is much variance between the industrial and medical office.
Again these are a big bulk warehouse buildings of credit tenants long-term leases and then medical office buildings are on-campus facilities hospital taking basically a 100% of the space.
So the going in yields are really pretty comparable right now.
And as I mentioned on the call what we always call our initial stabilized yield so it’s basically our initial yield on these kind of build-to-suit was just over 7% but also in all of these projects we get annual rent increases for over the term of the lease.
So if you look at our average rents over the term of the lease it’s probably closer to being in the 8.25% to 8.5% range.
And that’s really what we’re seeing on the build-to-suit type today.
And for the speculative projects that you mentioned in California what kind of yield would you expect to get on that? Well I would tell you that today’s market rates out in Southern California the yield on that project would be kind of in the low 7s – high 6s low 7s which is still a pretty good spread over what things are trading for out there today.
And the pipeline today is around $350 million worth.
I guess what is the backlog of projects looks like and as you look out 12 months at the end of the year do you see the pipeline being substantially larger than this today? Well.
Again I think our guidance for this year was sort of in the $200 million to $300 million of starts range and again we are off to a great start in my opinion because we signed about $120 million in the first quarter and as I mentioned we have signed another medical office building of about $43 million here in April.
So we’re at $160 million through the first four months against that $200 million to $300 million.
So we feel pretty good.
There is a backlog at both the build-to-suit industrial and the medical office.
I would tell you right now that backlog you can use a lot of different kind of projects.
So I had to take a put a number on it because of probability of execution varies quite a bit but I do think the medical office backlog is a little bit bigger than the bulk industrial backlog today.
But again I think with the start we’re at this year I think we’re very comfortable being in that range and hopefully closer to the top end of that range and development start this year.
And as far as looking ahead I think things continue to improve in the economy albeit very slowly like they are today.
We would expect that pipeline to hold up and maybe grow a little bit.
Really what we think in a normal environment for our business model.
Today we think the development if you have a economy that’s kind of hitting on all cylinders that debt development starts for us can be in the $400 million to $500 million range.
And as you didn’t do a capital to fund that if the development pipeline would increase in other $200 million.
Does that necessitate more equity to fund that in order to keep the leverage mutual? Is that the way we should think about it funding for growth? Yeah that’s the way you should think about it.
We’re certainly not going to increase our leverage profile as we go forward to grow.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
I guess along similar lines you have 620 million of land in the balance sheet.
Can you talk a little bit about where that land is located and how it aligns with may be where you see the opportunity for development especially spec development? Sure Jamie.
About 120 million of that is really in the portfolio that we have designated for sale and I guess about 2.5 going on three years now.
That’s the land that we have picked impaired.
And we’re working through the sale on that we had couple of sales in the first quarter.
We’ve got – our backlog on the sale of land is probably a little bit higher than it’s been for a while.
We’ve got a few transactions in process.
So I think we’ll make some nice progress on disposing of that land some more of that land before the end of the year.
Then there’s about 500 million of land on the development side 70% of that is bulk industrial land and it’s really located across the markets.
There is a quite – there is a fair amount in lot of our Midwest cities where we’ve had land for a long time and it’s relatively inexpensive to carry in scheme of things but we have – we basically have bulk industrial land in almost all of our markets and again we will look at opportunities when the time is right to start speculative projects on some of that land.
But again we’re also casing build-to-suits – build-to-suit and we signed here in Indianapolis in the first quarter was on land that we owned and then we have about 30% of that land is still some office land and it’s really again also spread around the country.
For the most part we’re marketing that land to do build-to-suit developments on.
As you could imagine they are just aren't a lot of build-to-suit developments.
We signed a big one last year with Primerica which is on our land down in Atlanta but there was not a lot going on there but we will work our way through that office land also.
Okay.
So the 70% that’s bulk industrial how much of that would you say is kind of Main &amp; Main where you would want to actually start construction? I guess I am getting like in the Inland Empire anywhere else you build spec you think you will need to take down land to get started? To buy additional land to get started is that what you are saying? When you announced Inland Empire was that a land you owned or you have to buy the land? It’s our land we own yeah.
Okay.
So that over the 70% that you said is bulk industrial.
How much of that is well located where if you were to build in that market that’s the land you would use? All of it.
All of it.
Okay.
We went through that – over the past couple of years Jamie since we refined our strategy in '09 which is how we ended up with the buckets of port sales and held and we view that to be Main &amp; Main.
And anything we didn’t believe we were going to develop we moved over into that for sale bucket and we continue to monitor that.
Okay.
So it’s safe to assume if you guys do additional spec you won’t need to take down rent? That’s right.
At 80%.
Okay.
And then can you just give us a little bit more color about the pipeline of demand both on warehouse and suburban office kind of what do you expect for the remainder of the year in terms of conversations you are having on the leasing side? Starting with the industrial side we are up to 93.6% leased now which is starting to get back into the range of closer to where we think that stabilized portfolio would run.
In a normal environment again I think we’d run at 95% 96% there.
So I still think that business is pretty good.
The demand seems pretty solid there.
So hopefully we continue to make progress on that 93.6% and get it up into the 94% range before the end of the year and I think there is a good possibility if everything stays fairly stable.
The suburban office business again as I said in our remarks I’m just not sure what’s going – when that’s going to turn around.
I think we know what’s going to drive it which is going to be some increasing employment and people starting to hire again but it’s still really pretty hard to say when that’s going to happen and I don’t hold out any high hopes that we are going to increase that occupancy very significantly during the rest of the year.
I think the only other point that I’d add to what Denny just said Jamie is that part of the running in place on the offices clearly given what’s happening overall in the sense of macroeconomic environment but the other thing too it’s a bit of a sell for selling process with us as well because as our team works to lease up the office portfolio to the extent that those properties are located and are part of our more non-strategic disposition list as outlined in our asset strategy as we meet unless we’re selling to make sure that we get appropriate value.
Okay.
Alright thank you.
Hi thanks good afternoon.
Denny could you talk a little bit about the competitive environment for both distribution development as well as medical office development is it – has competition really returned to the development sector? Yes.
I think there is lot of competition on both sides.
I will talk about each one specifically.
I think on the bulk industrial obviously there is still a lot of developers and I’d say both on the public and private side and you know who they are that are chasing the build – the industrial build-to-suits that are out there today.
Maybe there is not quite as many competitors as there was towards the end of the last cycle but there is still enough that pretty much all of the projects are competitive and they are all competitively fair than I think that grows across all the markets.
So I would say every industrial project we’re bidding on has at least two or three developers usually more or like three to five developers bidding on a project.
And then on the medical office side again it’s generally competitive but the medical office side can also be driven more by the hospital system relationships that we have.
So again just as an example there we bought those street buildings in Cincinnati from the TriHealth system down there and we’ve got a long relationship with them.
And I think there is opportunity to do development with that system because we’re really their real estate partner now.
Those are not necessarily competitively bid but everybody knows what the market is.
So our pricing has to be competitive to get it even with that relationship.
And I guess one other thing I’d say on the industrial side is again going back to really Jamie’s question a lot of time it’s driven by the land parcels in the location of the land.
So again as I said we’ve got rate industrial land in all our market.
So that helps us get some of those deals.
Okay.
And I’m looking at the hurdle rate to start-up development project.
Has that hurdle rate changed? Does the cost of capital has changed or is that an absolute level? Well I think we held it pretty consistent but for the most part our hurdle rates are going to be clearly different clearly significantly different for like specular project versus build-to-suits.
We’ll certainly be more aggressive on build-to-suit projects good solid industrial or medical office buildings that are pre-leased.
We’re going to be pretty aggressive on those and as I mentioned that was really what all of our starts were in the first quarter.
So and sort of a 7% starting rental yield on those.
On specular projects with the exception of Southern California there is – you’re going to see higher starting or stabilized yields than what you’re seeing when we’re in the build-to-suit business.
Is that answered your question? Paul.
Yes it does.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thanks.
If I could –could you talk about your capital deployment activities.
It seems like lot of the stuff that you bought this quarter were fully leased and lot of kind of Midwest capital markets and at the same time your – it sounds like the one that you’re buying and the one that you’re selling as a most higher yielding assets and just curious what’s the offside of buying assets that had 6 to 7 cap that’s almost 100% leased? Well these have long-term leases.
They are stable.
They’ve all got well rate growth built into them both on the industrial side and on the medical office side.
Basically on all these those numbers you’re seeing are really cash on cash yield that’s going to grow because again your long-term leases and there is virtually no capital expenditures needed probably from anywhere from 5 to 10 years on these projects we’re buying.
So again they are certainly accretive over the shorter and longer term.
What we have been focused on really hasn’t changed from what we’ve been doing in the last couple of years.
We’re selling our older non-functional mostly office assets.
We sold a few industrial assets this quarter but there were some older flex buildings down in Cincinnati that had been on our chart list and we’re able to move those.
But most of our older office buildings as I mentioned they were only 80% leased and with an average age of over 20 years.
So the other thing that I would say is our cap rates the way we code our cap rates is a stabilized yield and that stabilized yield that we’ll code like on that 9.7 would assume that properties somewhere leased between 90% and 95% while those properties may have not been at 90% to 95% leased for longtime.
So in place is probably closer to 8 8.25 on those properties.
But that’s just the way we’ve always done those.
It’s as much of an art as a science on calculating cap rates on dispositions.
I just want to clarify that point.
So when you close stabilized yields for – when you for acquisitions and development is based on a stabilized yield based on occupancy or is that offering cooperating straight line rent? Yeah that’s based on occupancy but it would also consider the cost to lease up the property – our estimated cost to lease up the property.
Why not you pursue – I mean you’ve shifted your portfolio in a pretty significant manner in the past year-and-a-half and I think lot of heavy lift has been done so why not you limit more strategic in your acquisitions or dispositions – and piecing and try to top take more of the bids.
I mean the pursue kind of an under lease acquisitions where are – not just buying fully stabilized assets where you’re starting to get a straight yield for 10 years? I just want to jump in there even because we have been assets just in terms of the specificity associated with the asset repositioning strategy since '09.
So I just want to remind everybody that we spent of that 20% I mean call it 50% of that $1 billion in assets that we were proposing to leased up.
Taking a look back and what we did in South Florida as a Dugan transaction I mean just to start to rattle them off.
So we haven’t just combined stabilized assets.
I know it seems like that as we become just even more later focused on specific markets that Denny want to be in for all the right reasons but please don’t forget about what we’ve done over two years here and moving a couple billion dollars.
Well the only other thing I would say is I am not sure what’s your version to stabilized assets that means there is nothing wrong with them.
They’re really great assets as I said they are immediately accretive to AFFO growth going forward because got virtually no capital expenditures and you got relevant growth.
So you’re kind of talking about them like that’s a bad thing but I don’t think it is.
And I guess I’m looking at a on a relative basis to maybe more development or lease look like we have a much higher return even at the build-to-suit level and at the same time I think last time we spoke you guys mentioned that you guys were pretty close to your deleveraging targets yet you still issued the equity at 13.60 a share.
I think that’s probably low 7 cap rate and I was just kind of just combining everything together seems like is that the best use of capital? What we actually issued a 39 a share.
You guys all got to remember that every time we issue on that cost us some fees to do that.
Yeah.
As Christi mentioned we – the ATM has a very efficient way to do that equity raise when you look at the fee side.
So again we used that strategically.
I think it was a great time for us to use it in this quarter when you look at really mainly the development pipeline that we’re building.
We’ve got $350 million development pipeline and as Josh asked at the beginning and I reiterate you can expect us to see us fund that kind of growth through development in line with our capital structure today.
So that’s going to require roughly 50% common equity and that’s what we’re going to do because we’re not going to increase our leverage ratios.
And I think even to in putting together the ATM programs we put that in place in February of 2010.
We carried executing on it after two years from inception.
And we said that we were going to use that program opportunistically.
When we announced it it was ties at $150 million which was expected to be at 6% to the total shares outstanding.
There are 40 other entities who have issued ATMs since 2011 through year-to-date that we know as of the end of February 2012.
50% of those have re-upped on their ATMs and they’ve been larger.
And in terms of overall execution of – as Dennis said we issued at a (indiscernible) that was better than the average – weighted average price since inception that was better than the weighted average price over the trailing 12 months that was better than the weighted average price over the past six months and that was better than the market price over the past month and half that we executed.
And if you take a look at the volume that we executed on we were executing a 3% to 18% of the total volume that day taking advantage of the volatility in the market.
So I think it was all first of all immaterial.
We don’t take issuing equity lightly but 150 million shares given the size of our business and we used the proceeds I mean it had no effect.
Okay.
And I just want to add one other thing Ki Bin.
We’re talking about taking on more risk profile.
I remind our folks all the time that we still have $10 million square feet of vacancy out there.
And I’ve got – there is plenty of risk left in that vacancy.
We have lease explorations.
Although we’re in great shape this year we always have lease expirations coming in at us.
So there is still plenty of risk in our business and I’m focused on managing the overall risk.
So I’m not really inclined to go buy properties that add significantly to that vacancy because I think we’ve got enough right now.
And we’re still working on de-levering we’ve got goals out there as stated and we still got real work to do and we’re going to keep chipping away at it as we’ve communicated.
So we’re in good shape.
So are you – before I had taken a lot of time but are you trying to re-up the ATM and what are your thoughts on future equity expenses and are you going to try to – and that will be tied to certain activities or…?  No I think in my statement I did mention that we are going to re-up because it’s a prudent thing to do as I mentioned in other 40 other REITs out there that are doing it.
And we executed very effectively.
So yes and I think you would expect us to do that.
And in terms of tying it to any one specific activity no and I think our performance keeps for itself.
We waited until it started to make sense over the past couple of years and I think we executed pretty well given the current operational profile and it’s complementing our asset strategy and we will keep doing that with minimum effect to our overall performance.
Okay and just last quick question on your development page on page 28 you guys have quoted your yields productive yields part of being finished so just a couple of quick questions one how do you account for land bases on those yields and second on page – to the page before why not just provide projected yields on stuff you have under construction? Well number – your first question on 28.
The land that are basis that we which is basically our original costs because as we said we didn’t really and we haven’t impaired in any of the development land.
There is a big reason why we don’t show each development yield on page 27 that’s a competitive reason I don’t necessarily want to show my competitors or our customers exactly what might yield is on any specific building that’s why we don’t show here.
I guess I’m in total also but okay.
Thank you I’m done.
Thanks Steven.
Hey Denny.
Given the industrial build-to-suit that you have announced it seems that large block demand continues to be fairly robust in the bulk industrial business when you look down at maybe the 30 000 40 000 square foot blocks have you seen any more positive traction there over the last three six months and do you feel better about the direction of the smaller spaces in industrial?  Yeah I say definitely Dave when you think about it think about some of those stats that we mentioned with 7.4 million square feet of industrial leasing.
And so you take out a couple million square feet one for the build-to-suit one for the Carter’s deal.
And then the only other one we really talked about that was large was that 300 000 square foot deal we did down in Cincinnati.
So the rest of those – you had 4 million 5 million square feet which were all smaller type deals.
So we’re talking under probably 200 000 square feet for the most part.
So that activity that’s pretty good for a quarter to have that much activity on the industrial leasing side in that size basis.
Your effective rents in industrial I think in the first quarter and maybe as a small sample size versus last year were down quite a bit.
What were your cash leasing spread in the quarter? And was there a big mix shift from last year till the first quarter or was it just more aggressive pricing?  That number is probably being driven by that deal at Atlanta because it was such a big part of it.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks we have a pretty competitive rate on that deal.
But we liked it because we only have three months of downtime.
We got the space built.
We didn’t spend much at all in a way of capital expenditures on that tenant and we get nice rent bumps and it’s an 11 year lease.
So we have low CapEx.
We’ve spread that over 11 years which is great.
So a lot of the metrics we use even though the initial rental rate was lower we – that lease looks really good when you look at it.
And then the other thing with that that I would – only thing I would add David is that tenant left in that space was side back at 2006 or 2007 and their rent was quite a bit higher.
So there was some roll down there.
And I think a lot of times when you look at out those numbers David it just can really depend on the mix.
If you got a lot of larger spaces in there maybe those numbers are look little lower than they would have for smaller space.
Maybe to ask it in a different way and I appreciate that color.
How do you feel about rental rates in the bulk industrial portfolio from the market perspective versus 3 6 12 months ago? Well.
I think it’s getting better.
I think it’s getting better because in all markets pretty much occupancy is going up and we’re starting to see in almost every bulk industrial market pretty solid occupancy.
And as you mentioned I think you said in the beginning it’s really – there is a lot of these larger vacancies has been taken.
But it still little bit difficult to get a lot of traction on rental rate growth because it’s still the demand is good but it’s not – it still not necessarily booming out there.
I think when you look at it there has just been a handful of build-to-suits around the country really so far this year that business is starting to pick up but until we really see that and then see the demand pick up it’s still pretty hard to get a lot of traction on rental rates.
But I certainly think it’s headed in the right direction.
I think it’s better than it was six or nine months ago.
Okay.
Last just follow-up question for me could you provide us a range and I know this will vary by market but if possible provide us a range of development and construction costs for each year three property types given kind of where the bulk of your land for new development is today? Well that is kind of hard to do when you’re looking – I would tell you just to give you a range I think most Midwest markets are in $35 to $40 for bulk industrial again depending on how big it is.
If you look at Southern California it’s more like $70 a square foot and just trying to think where other in places like Atlanta and Dallas you get probably $40 to $45 per foot.
On the medical office side it’s really hard to say because these buildings vary pretty significantly among all those properties that we owned.
And it’s not necessarily driven by geography it’s – some of it is a little bit because – but not a lot because most of those are on land leases.
So we just have long-term ground leases in the – the length of the ground rest is just the path the tenant really pays it.
So it’s just building cost and quite honestly those could range from in the low $200 a foot to up to close to $400 a foot depending on how the buildings built and what you have in it.
And is that with land? No that’s without land because again they’re almost all in ground leases.
It would be industrial though I’m sorry? Yeah.
That is also is with land yes sorry.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
So looking at your same-store pool it looks like occupancy decreased around 50 bps since Q4 and acknowledging that’s not quite apples-to-apples sequentially pretty big difference from the 140 debt increases on the total portfolio.
Just wondering if you could give some color on reconciling the two of them? Yeah Blaine I can take a jump in there for you.
I saw that in the note the other night.
Same store I think you mentioned was about 50 or 60 bps in terms of the population for the quarter that’s correct.
A couple of other things that we have going on in there you’ve got in terms of the total – the total versus same-store the same-store population measures the same property population that’s been in effect for 24 months total is everything and so you’ve got development starts in there acquisitions dispositions which is about 15 to 20 basis points.
And then you’ll also have the impact of other leasing such as the quarter lease that Denny mentioned which is the other piece of area which is not in the same-store population.
Okay.
And then second question.
If I take your quarter results from the first quarter $0.24 and kind of assume that the savings from the preferred redemption roughly offsets the dilution from the ATM issuance that puts you at pace to be around $0.96 for the year.
Just wanted to get some color on what do you thought the earnings progression for the rest of the year was going to be like and kind of what needs to happen to hit the midpoint to upper end of guidance? Well I think the first quarter I’ll say couple of things about.
It’s generally our lowest quarter because there are just different things that happened in the first quarter.
There are some cyclicality to our service business.
There are some things on the overhead side that just always get recorded in the first quarter rather than spread and it’s a timing difference.
And then in this particular first quarter we were still redeploying the proceeds from Blackstone transaction at the beginning of the year for really the first couple months of the year.
So again obviously if we end up at the midpoint of our guidance it’s going to have increase a little bit on a quarterly basis going through and again as we’ve said we are comfortable with the guidance that we put out there so.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Danny could you give us a sense for which markets aside from the Inland Empire you would be looking at spec development on bulk industrial? Well if you ask my guidance I feel I have to tell you all of those love to – try to build the spec one but – I’m not quite sure.
I’d say I think we’ve had some guys are seriously look at them I mean possibly Indianapolis maybe in Dallas if it was a certain fit-fit a certain profile.
And Houston probably is one where you could justify some and again it’s certain submarkets there.
In my opinion John it doesn’t really go a whole lot deeper than that right now.
And again I think I would probably include South Florida in that list but we really don’t have any developable industrial land in South Florida.
That’s one of the reasons we really wanted and are so happy we got the premier portfolio last year because we didn’t really have any land to develop down there.
So I think South Florida though for peoples who have land available spec product is certainly a consideration there.
Okay.
And on the acquisitions for the quarter had a pretty distinctly Midwest flavor.
Is that a shift in the strategy at all or just a sample size? Small sample size I mean I think we got a really nice deal on those couple of buildings in Columbus.
Clearly Chicago is on our target list for bulk industrial so we’ll keep – you’ve seen us acquire through last year and into this year in Chicago and then again if you look at the medical office business again is really less geographic focused and more health system focused and with the tri-health system in Cincinnati and about the loyal system in Chicago where our acquisitions where this quarter both very very good healthcare systems.
Okay.
And I wanted to just come back for a moment to the capital allocation line of questioning and certainly sympathetic to the desire to kind of reduce the risk profile and certainly continue to the reduce leverage particularly considering what we’ve all went through the past several years.
But maybe if you could just help us understand quite a hurdle you’re trying to beat and let’s – maybe focus on acquisitions.
Again understanding that there is some built-in rent growth but just when you’re buying fully leased at a relatively lower going end yield what’s the hurdle that you’re looking to beat? Well I think we’re looking at those on the basis of are they accreted to us and… On what basis? I’m sorry.
AFFO.
Yep to AFFO are they accretive to us on an AFFO basis.
And if they are then and its good property and we’re executing on our asset strategy and we’re not doing any damage to our capital strategy that I think the acquisitions make sense.
So the issue though is the company our size it’s hard to notice the accretion when you’re doing a $150 million in the quarter event.
I mean you don’t see it for a while but it will come into place because once you get them you’re not going to see the accretion in the first quarter and then it’s going to happen some in the future quarters then you’re going to get more as rental rates grow.
So it just takes a while for that accretion that come into place to.
Does that answer your question John?  Well I guess ultimately where do you peg your cost to capital? Well I mean there are a lot of different ways to calculate it.
The way we normally look at it is our cost to debt on a 10-year basis plus sort of our FFO yield on our stock price.
And if you…  May be now it’s about 533.
Well I would say higher than that but…  50-50 leverage.
Yeah it’s in the probably 5.5 to 6 the low 6 range today.
Okay.
And then lastly just a housekeeping question look like same-store expenses were up quite a bit sequentially and I wouldn’t have expected to see that much seasonality here slowing the whole was anything that you can explain for us there? I think they are down John.
Just looking from the fourth quarter supplemental to the first quarter it looked like same store expenses were up $5 million or so? It’s hard to do John because you got a different population every quarter.
Right.
And maybe we can pull it offline but it didn’t look like there is much of a change in terms of square footage or anything else so happy to follow-up offline? Okay.
Good John.
Thanks.
Hey just a follow-up question on the same store NOI may be ask you a little bit differently.
I mean it was a pretty strong result year-over-year this quarter.
Was there anything seasonal in that in terms of the normal cost and should investors be looking for something in that upper forced range guidance obviously is a lot lower than that for the full year? No I think what your – it was higher this quarter again because as we said as we go through this year we were building off a bigger base each quarter because we had nice same store growth throughout 2011 too.
So we don’t think the first quarter is indicative of where we’ll end up for the full year and that’s the guidance that we always give as for the full 12 months calendar year.
Okay.
But outside of increasingly difficult comparisons there is nothing else sort of seasonal in number this quarter? No we always set the data to have people look at quarterly numbers.
So there can be something goes both ways within a quarter.
But I don’t think there is anything real specific in there today.
Okay.
Okay thanks everybody we appreciate being on that call and we’ll talk to you again in next quarter.
Thanks.
Take care.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Duke Realty Second Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all phone participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be an opportunity for your questions.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this call is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Ron Hubbard Vice President of Investor Relations for Duke Realty.
Mr.
Hubbard please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Christie Kelly Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Denien Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you our December 31 2011 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I'll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments during the quarter in both our operational and asset strategies.
Christie will then address our second quarter financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
Then I'll finish up our prepared remarks with some comments about our outlook for the remainder of 2012.
By all accounts the second quarter was a great success for Duke Realty and I'm very proud of our team for their accomplishments.
We signed over 4.9 million square feet of leases in the second quarter and started development of $63 million of industrial projects and $65 million of medical office projects.
All of our new development starts are 100% preleased with the exception of 431 000 square foot spec industrial start on our land in Chino California.
Our in-service occupancy percent increased slightly to 92.2% while our overall portfolio occupancy was relatively flat at quarter end at 92.0% really due to the speculative development start.
We made continued progress on our asset repositioning strategy with $103 million of acquisitions comprised substantially of bulk industrial properties and disposed of $27 million of flex industrial retail and land assets.
On the capital front we issued $300 million of new unsecured debt at a company record low effective rate of 4.47% lowering our cost of capital and reflecting an endorsement from the market on Duke Realty's improving credit strength.
Christie will speak more in depth on our capital activities in just a moment.
From a macro perspective halfway through the year the economy is moving along at a relatively tepid 2% growth rate.
Recent economic indicators have been mixed with some of the manufacturing and freight data points slightly moving to the downside.
Despite that our overall leasing activity has held up well in both industrial and medical office.
On industrial the trends in e-commerce and supply chain modernization are also continuing to drive steady demand for our newer larger box modern industrial portfolio.
The on-campus medical office facility business also remains robust particularly on the new developments on.
The suburban office sector continues to be sluggish in most markets with a few pockets showing good absorption and moderate rent growth.
Looking to the rest of the year we expect continued slow but upward growth yet we remain mindful of rising uncertainty and event risk from government fiscal issues across the globe in the upcoming U.S.
election.
As I said we had another solid quarter of leasing activity with 4.9 million square feet of signings.
We reduced 66% of our leases during the quarter.
On the renewal leases we attained over 2.7% and 5.3% increased rental rate growth in our industrial and medical office businesses indicative of our ability to push rents in a high occupancy portfolio.
Office continued to be a challenge with slightly negative growth as we expected.
With respect to same property performance we achieved positive same property NOI growth for the 12 months and three months ended June 30 of 3.7% and 3.4% respectively.
Now let me touch on some of the key activity within each of our product types for the quarter.
The national industrial market continues to improve with demand drivers positive on most fronts.
Early indication show second quarter vacancy levels for higher quality product declined another 25 to 40 basis points to just under 9.5%.
With respect to select Duke markets Chicago Atlanta and Dallas all reported 50 to 80 basis point reduction in overall vacancy levels with new supply levels on a national basis still relatively muted at roughly a quarter of a percent of inventory.
We continue to have strong fundamental outlook in the industrial sector.
With respect to leasing in our in-service portfolio we completed over a 1.5 million square feet of new industrial leases and over 1.8 million square feet of renewal leases.
Including new leases on development build-to-suits our industrial leases totaled over 3.7 million square feet.
For the second quarter we generated positive net absorption in our industrial portfolio with in-service occupancy rising to 93.6%.
Some of our larger lease deals included 222 000 square foot seven-year expansion in renewal with Sonoco Plastics in St.
Louis a 164 000 square foot expansion in renewal in Houston with Bray International.
In our Chicago market we executed 257 000 square foot lease with Brighton Best International in connection with a new acquisition.
Finally we signed two other leases totaling almost 441 000 square feet on build-to-suit development project which I'll discuss in more depth.
The office leasing environment continues to be challenging as expected.
Our nationwide vacancy levels dropped 10 basis points to 20 basis points during the quarter yet remained in the 13% to 14% range reflective of the tepid job and GDP growth.
However total leasing in our portfolio for the quarter was 900 000 square feet with in-service occupancy levels increasing 43 basis points to 85.9%.
Raleigh was a particularly strong market with 77 000 square foot 11-year lease with Novella Clinical and 70 000 square foot expansion with Lenovo for eight years both signed in this quarter and both of these tenants are in our Perimeter Park development.
We also signed over 37 000 square feet of leases at our CAPTRUST Tower project in Raleigh and that project is now 93% leased.
On the medical office front healthcare providers are moving ahead with strategic plans to navigate provider and practitioner consolidation trends and looming healthcare reform of which a key component is providing modern lower cost outpatient settings for their customers.
Consistent with this trend our leasing activity and development opportunities continued to gain traction.
We also started two new development projects which I’ll also cover in just a minute.
Looking out – we have a good solid backlog of leasing and development prospects for the remainder of 2012 reflective of our deep relationships in the healthcare industry and an excellent development track record by our team.
We also made good progress at our asset strategy during the quarter.
We acquired $103 million of very high quality properties.
These acquisitions included a 498 000 square foot bulk industrial facility in La Mirada California which is in northern Orange County.
That is 100% lease to Staples and Cotton On.
We also acquired a 570 000 square foot building in the Atlanta I-20 West submarket 100% leased to a global leader in the display and exhibit services business with the remaining lease term of 11.5 years.
In a more creative deal we acquired a vacant 257 000 square foot industrial facility in Chicago and leased the entire building to Brighton Best.
This Chicago transaction was located in the IAEA corridor and allowed us to meet an existing customer's expansion needs.
This deal exemplifies the value-add creativity relationships and overall depth of the Duke Realty platform.
Disposition activity was relatively light this quarter with $27 million of property sold of which $15 million was from three non-core flex industrial assets that were 86% occupied and $11 million from one retail asset that was 81% occupied and the remaining from vacant land.
Now turning to development I'm pleased to report that our development start year-to-date are off to the strongest start in several years a testament to what we believe is a best-in-class development platform.
After 136 million of starts in the first quarter we started another 128 million during the second quarter with the diversified mix of industrial and medical office build-to-suit and speculative projects all consistent with our asset strategy.
In total we have 3.4 million square feet across 13 projects under construction that are over 86% preleased in the aggregate.
These new developments for the quarter included two new industrial build-to-suits the first was in Atlanta project totaling 211 000 square feet which is 100% preleased to Kuehne and Nagel for a term of 10 years.
The project will be delivered within our 400 acre Camp Creek Business Center strategically located just east of Hartsfield International Airport.
The second industrial build-to-suit development start is in the Chicago O'Hare submarket a 230 000 square feet state-of-the-art warehouse leased to [Houston] logistics.
The deal is another example of our strategic development capabilities as we acquired a 26 acre brownfield redevelopment site near O'Hare and we are able to sign a long term 12 year lease with the Blue Chip global (inaudible) tenant.
The other build-to-suit projects were medical office which were briefly mentioned on the last call.
The projects are both on hospital campuses and leased to Scott &amp; White Healthcare an A rated health system with 120 000 square foot facility located in College Station Texas and the other 67 000 square foot facility outside of Austin Texas and both projects are 100% leased for 15 years.
On the last call we announced our first spec development project located in Southern California.
As we discussed for the last few quarters we've been closely watching select markets where fundamentals and growth prospects are robust matched with our strategic land positions to potentially began spec development.
We broke ground on the Southern California project in June.
The project will total 431 000 square feet in the Inland Empire West submarket.
Interest in Southern California high quality distribution space remains strong with the Inland Empire second quarter vacancy dropping to 6.5% which is reportedly the lowest ever with the net absorption more than doubling from the first quarter and rents are up roughly 3% since the first quarter as well.
With this backdrop we are optimistic about the leasing prospects for this facility and expect roughly 100 to 125 basis point return premium over acquisition yields on this development.
So if you look at the quarter's development starts and exclude the Chino spec project total project costs were $102 million and these buildings are 100% leased for an average of 14 years the high credit tenants with our average return over the terms at 7.9%.
I'd also like to announce two additional speculative projects that recently started.
The first a 600 000 square foot industrial facility in Indianapolis which we designed to be expandable to 1 million square feet.
As most of you are aware Indianapolis has one of lowest overall vacancy rates in the U.S.
at around 5.5% with Class A vacancy at about 4%.
Moreover the availability of large blocks of space in the overall market are virtually non-existent complemented with (inaudible) reporting over a 4% growth in rents from the first quarter to the second quarter.
We’re strategically placing this facility in the northwest Indianapolis submarkets and our all points at Hanson Park.
Though there are some – other speculative industrial development it's going on in the city there is no other bulk warehouse building their plant in the northwest submarkets.
And finally we also like to announce a new 158 000 square foot spec office building in Houston.
The project is located on the final remaining eight acres of over 42 acres (inaudible) Keystone Crossing Park in the northwest submarkets of Houston right on the 8.0 way.
Given the proximity of the location to the energy corridor and Exxon campus and the booming energy industry the submarket is strong demand by energy services providers and engineering firms which is held drive we just help drive the vacancy of our competitive set and submarkets less than 5%.
With these fundamentals we believe it's the appropriate time to pursue a speculative office development in this market.
This project will be developed in our joint venture with CBRE Realty Trust which includes the adjacent building which is 100% leased.
As you’ve heard from us for a number of quarters now these speculative projects have been strategically gone out and representative of the operational discipline at Duke Realty.
Once again the strong Duke Realty development platform is showing great value creation opportunities as a real estate markets began to grow again.
I'll now turn the call over to Christie to discuss our financial results for the quarter.
Thanks Denny.
And good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I would like to provide an update on our second quarter financial performance as well under the progress on our capital strategy.
Our second quarter 2012 core FFO was $0.26 per share.
The improvement in Core FFO per share from $0.24 per share for the first quarter of 2012 was mainly driven by an increase in average occupancy higher lease termination fee income as well as the full quarter savings on dividends related to the first quarter repayment of our Series M preferred shares.
First as you can imagine the timing of the lease buyouts is very hard to predict that we are generally recognized total termination fee income of $7.5 million to $15 million per year for the last couple of years.
Our original guidance for the year was $5 million to $10 million consistent with our normal run rate and we still expect to be in that range.
Second G&amp;A expense in this quarter was a little higher than we would expect for a go forward run rate due to less overhead costs being absorbed into leasing and development for the second quarter.
As the development starts that we have announced for the first half of the year pickup in volumes we expect more overhead to be absorbed and accordingly G&amp;A expense to decrease slightly.
We’re comfortable with our G&amp;A guidance that we have given of $38 million to $43 million for the year.
For the quarter we generated $0.21 per share in AFFO which translates into a conservative dividend payout ratio slightly below 81%.
Our year-to-date payout ratio is below 83%.
We are pleased with our operating results for the quarter and anticipate continued solid execution throughout the rest of the year.
Turning to the capital side of our business; we successfully generated new proceeds through several transitions during the quarter in an effort to lower our cost of capital and optimize on long-term debt maturities as well as fund the continued execution of our asset strategy.
In June we took advantage of a favorable interest rate environment and successfully executed a $300 million offering of 10-year senior unsecured notes with a coupon of 4.375% and an effective yield of 4.47%.
The transaction reduced our weighted average cost of debt and further balanced the laddering of our maturity profile.
We're very pleased with the timing and execution of this transaction and appreciate the support of our fixed income investors.
We utilized the proceeds from this offering to repay an $88 million secured loan and fund a portion of our acquisition activity for the quarter.
We ended the quarter with $107 million of cash that we will be primarily utilized towards funding $171 million of third quarter debt maturities along with our development funding obligations.
In May 2012 we executed new ATM programs that allow for the issuance of up to $200 million worth of our common stock.
During the second quarter of 2012 we issued approximately 311 000 shares of common stock under that program generating net proceeds of approximately $4.4 million.
Thus far in July we have issued an additional $2 million of our common shares which generated net proceeds of approximately $29 million.
We have been selective in utilizing our new ATM program and total issuance since the beginning of the second quarter including early July has been at an average stock price of $14.69.
We also generated 27 million of proceeds from non-strategic asset dispositions.
We utilized the capital generated during the quarter to fund development activities as well as fund $100 million of property acquisitions of which nearly all were high-quality bulk industrial properties.
Our liquidity remains very solid when considering the fact that we have no borrowings outstanding on our $850 million line of credit and have very manageable debt maturities for the remainder of the year totaling $254 million.
I will conclude by saying that I am very happy with our progress in the second quarter as we continue to execute across all aspects of our strategies.
With that I'll turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Christie.
Yesterday we tightened our guidance for FFO per share to $0.98 to $1.06 for 2012 in recognition of our positive leasing activity and operational performance year-to-date.
We continue to remain comfortable with the range of estimates for the key operating metrics we've provided to you in January.
As alluded to you on the last call we still expect to be near the high end of average occupancy because of the strong year-to-date start and the fact that we have only 3% of our leases expiring during the remainder of the year.
We are proceeding as expected with acquisitions and dispositions though the timing is a little weighted towards the end of the year.
We also have a strong backlog of new development projects that we believe we can execute during the second half of the year.
Most importantly we are focused on executing our operating asset and capital strategies in undoubtedly more volatile economic climate these days.
We firmly believe executing on our plan will strengthen the Duke Realty platform and provide for steady long-term earnings and dividend growth for the market cycles.
Thank you again for your support of Duke Realty and now we'll open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) We go to the line of Joshua Attie with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Can you tell us give us more information on the termination fee what it was related to was it one tenant or several tenants? It was several tenants I'd say it was a couple larger ones of – and one was in Raleigh were we terminated a tenant and immediately backfilled it with an other tenant so that's really why we did – did it because we have the opportunity to – basically relocate an existing tenant into a larger space.
And then the second one was the project I mentioned up in Chicago where we had existing tenant that we relocated and expanded and as part of that they actually provided us a buyout on some of their space that they were leaving.
So it was – both the transactions were really good deals for us.
Thank you and one more question can you talk about the acquisitions that you made in the quarter? I know the initial yield is around 6.4% to those do you have the opportunity to move that up over time did some of those leases have escalations in them and I guess how did you underwrite what the return would be on those assets over a period of time beyond just the initial yield? Yeah Josh all of those assets have rental rate increases it pretty much annual.
Rental rate increase is built into them.
I just – I’d make a couple of comments on that because again we are still finishing up our asset repositioning strategy when you look at it.
so we’ve got roughly $500 million to $600 million more of industrial growth to occur we’ve got about $500 million of additional suburban office to dispose off and then about $300 give or take million of retail to dispose off.
So we're still focused on getting to those targets by next year which we’ve been saying for a long time now.
but we’re being a little bit more selective as we go through and the volumes are lower because we've done some very large transactions as you know over the last few years.
And again when we’re trying to do that I think we run into some timing issues.
so a couple of things we may be buying some things before we actually get our dispositions closed but we really know where we’re headed.
So again it's all part of that process.
So you may see us acquiring again a couple of stabilized assets that fit into our strategy before we've had a chance to sell some of our unstabilized assets.
so it just looks a little different.
I mean the truth is we’re really using the proceeds from our ATM to fund the new development starts which is as I mentioned we’re getting really good yields on those.
If you look at our pipeline today our average yield on those development projects is 8.25%.
So we think that’s really good accretive use of those funds.
So I think that answers your question but I also just really wanted to give some color on our thought process.
I guess also what I was driving at a little bit is what’s the value creation story behind some of these acquisitions? It seems like they’re fully leased and there are some embedded rent bumps but the cap rate seems – it seems on surface to me to be a little bit full.
Do you think the value creation comes from NOI growth or cap rate compression? I’m just trying to understand how the value of these assets goes up two three four years from now and where that increasing value comes from?  Yeah.
So going back there are two things.
Yes clearly NOI growth in these and again they’re all in real strong markets.
so we think we’ll get very good NOI growth there.
but then my other point is we’re still selling some assets that even though they might not match up on a quarter-by-quarter basis they’re going to match up.
and as we've been saying and as we've proven we're not diluting our AFFO as we reposition the portfolio.
so sometimes you will see us buy a stabilized asset that we think it’s a great long-term asset and it's just not matched up let's say a suburban office disposition but again we're still looking at it that way that it's part of the non-dilutive repositioning that we're still going through.
Okay thank you.
We’ll go to the line of Paul Adornato with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
Looking at the medical office development pipeline both existing and perspective how much of that would say is repeat business?  Well a fair amount of that Paul is repeat business but we're really pleased that we started a new relationship with Scott &amp; White Healthcare in Central Texas this year.
And they had not been really a customer before and we’ve got in relationship and we've started two projects with them as I mentioned and we've got a couple more coming.
So that's an example of repeat business.
But then again I think a lot of the other starts we continue to start various projects for Baylor or Baylor-affiliated companies.
So it’s really been sort of a nice mix of repeat customers and now we're also adding some new ones there.
Okay.
And could you also just talk about just the overall environment for medical office development? Is it very fragmented like the industrial development landscape might be?  I would say it's not anywhere near as fragmented as industrial but industrial as you know is very fragmented when you look from market-to-market.
But there is a number of developers out there and I'll just say a number of high quality developers out there but it's certainly a lesser number when you look around the country than you find on the industrial side.
And has there been a shakeout among those developers over the last cycle like there has been elsewhere in real estate?  Yeah I would say a little bit so.
I think the number is down.
There has been some consolidation and again a few of those private developers like in the other product types or at least that we’ve seen I'd say on the industrial and suburban office side really aren’t around anymore.
So I think the number of folks out there is less.
Okay.
And finally just looking at the spec industrial development maybe you could generalize and just tell us what your kind of qualitative and quantitative criteria for pulling the trigger on a spec industrial might be?  On a spec industrial?  Yeah.
Again I would say we’re obviously not doing a lot of it.
We’ve only started one and now have just a couple of others in the pipeline so we're being very selective.
and again I think that market rates and some of these markets have begun to move up market rental rates.
So I think we're seeing some ability to start these developments.
but just on a bottom line basis I would tell you our yield requirements on spec developments probably it's somewhere between 100 basis points and 150 basis points above what we think the market cap rates are today.
So we're still getting that spread.
It's just that today cap rates are pretty low and especially on the industrial side I would say in most of these markets so our developed yields are a little bit lower than they would have historically been but I’d tell you we’ll be getting above the same spread somewhere in that 100 basis points to 150 basis points range.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Paul.
And our next question comes from James Feldman with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey thank you.
A couple of questions I guess the first sticking with development.
If you look at your balance sheet and see how CIP has grown over the last couple of quarters how do you think about the level of where you’d be comfortable growing the development pipeline too? It seems like I mean we’ve doubled since last quarter actually doubled each in the last three quarters starting from a pretty low base but how should we think about that?  Well I think two things about that Jamie.
One is I’m really pleased with that development pipeline because as we said it’s 86% leased basically when we started.
So the risk profile of that development pipeline is really very low right now because we are being very conscious on spec but we’re also watching the overall level of our development pipeline.
And we’re really very focused on keeping that no more than about 7% 8% of our overall balance sheet.
And I don't think you're going to see it get any bigger than that.
Okay.
And then can you talk about the depth of interest in both the MOB – build-to-suit pipeline and warehouse?  Yeah.
I would say it's good very reasonably good right now.
It’s probably down a little bit from what we saw six months ago just because we’ve signed several deals.
So our pipeline was bigger but the good news is we actually got those deals signed.
Today there is a lot of talk going on build-to-suit warehouse business and we’ll see how real some of these are sometimes it's a little hard to tell when you are making proposals whether they're really real.
But I think it's pretty strong and I would say it's very strong on the medical office side of the business.
There is a lot of activity going on.
And I think our sense is now that we're a couple of years into this Affordable Care Act and now that it’s been upheld by the Supreme Court.
The healthcare systems are prepared and starting to look at the things that they need to do in their business and how these changes will affect them.
And they’re starting to make some commitments for growth the new facilities to take that into account.
So when you say very strongly what’s like the total magnitude what's out? I know you’ve said in the past the different institutions will only pick one developer to kind of limit how much you can really do so like what do you think is your potential pipeline?  Well I think our backlog of prospects we’ve been starting – we started about $200 million last year $175 million $200 million of medical office which was down from where we were pre-downturn but that was still our highest year in a couple of years.
This year we’re already well over $100 million of new development starts.
I would tell you our backlog today is probably $200 million to $300 million of prospects that are out there that we’re working on which I would consider very strong.
Do you think that it grows a lot more after – let me think kind of after the election and things seem a little more settled than on the legislative environment or that’s about a good run rate?  I think that’s about a good run rate.
I don’t see any of those factors really causing it to change one way or the other very significantly.
But again I think that $200 million to $300 million of kind of backlog at any one time projects we’re working on there is really a good run rate.
Okay.
And then finally for Christie you had mentioned I think an 80% 81% dividend payout ratio on AFFO.
How should we think about the prospects for dividend growth and where you’re comfortable with that ratio?  I think Jamie as we sit today we’re very comfortable with the conservative nature of our business and keeping that dividend payout ratio in accordance with our guidance.
And then as we move forward in 2013 and beyond I think you can expect us to re-look at the dividend.
And the growth rate kind of in line with AFFO?  Yes.
Growth okay all right.
Great thank you.
We’ll go to the line of Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good afternoon.
Question for you guys and I apologize because I jumped on a little bit late.
So I’m not sure if you addressed this.
But it looked like the leasing volumes on the bulk side were a little bit light and I think we’re in; expirations were a little light as well.
But I’m just wondering are you guys seeing any sluggishness any slowdown because of some of the macro concerns that are out there specific on the bulk side?  Brendan I would say that I think this was kind of a relatively normal quarter for us at overall 5 million square feet of leasing just under 4 million on the bulk.
We just came off such a high quarter in the first quarter it looks down but that 8.6 million square feet of leasing we did in the first quarter was pretty much a record quarter for us.
So that $5 million to $5.5 million range is pretty standard for us.
So and then the other thing I’d point out is that leasing activity probably is going to slow some as our occupancy gets up just the level of leasing activity because we’re now 93.6% leased in the bulk industrial.
So you’re just not going to have as much which is a good thing.
So and then back just to the overall comments I would say we haven’t felt any real slowdown.
I mean you never know everything is a little bit cyclical.
It seems like anymore we always get a little bit of summer doldrums when we head into it.
My guess is July I haven’t seen our July numbers but my guess is a little bit slower and August would be slower.
But I think that’s just cyclicality right now.
So today I would say we have no indication that third or fourth quarter overall are going to be pretty much on line.
But we’ll probably have a better idea that after Labor Day because things just do tend to slowdown anymore in the summer.
But really activity has been pretty good.
But again as we’ve gotten more leased up and we have less vacant inventory out there the deals just aren’t as frequent which is fine.
Is the balance of the space that you have to lease up as you kind of lease up your space I imagine you lease up the stuff as easiest quickest is what’s remaining because you don’t have that much left a little over 6% on the bulk side.
Is it just a more challenged space to lease up and so it’s going to be a tougher goal a bit from here?  No not necessarily but I would say there’s not many big spaces left.
I’ll tell you we got – I’m not even sure we have any over a 0.5 million square feet.
I think maybe around 300 000 square feet is probably our biggest vacancy.
And some of that vacancy is still in the new products so getting the last 250 000 square foot space filled.
So I would say no it’s not of lower quality if you want to call it space.
It’s just smaller spaces which the activity has been pretty solid on but not as good as the larger bulk spaces.
Okay.
And then it looked like the bankruptcies were high this quarter as well at least on a square footage basis is there anything anomalous that happened in the quarter that caused that number to spike up?  We have one in Dallas a home furniture in about I think it was 378 000 square feet in a warehouse that did file bankruptcy and terminated this quarter.
So it was a little bit of larger one.
And I would say it’s been a little bit surprising to me.
We’ve had a couple of surprised bankruptcies this year that we weren’t expecting and it really had stabilized through latter half of 2010 and 2011.
But the first six months of this year it picked backup a little bit.
And I don’t know that that’s a sign of anything it could be – it’s only in a couple of places.
But we did see that and that’s the one that occurred in the second quarter.
But the good news is we’ve got really good activity on that space.
So I think we’ll get a backflow pretty quickly because I guess that probably is our biggest space we’ve got out there now.
Okay it’s helpful.
And then just as we think about the balance of the year and I know you were talking with Jamie about the development pipeline.
As we look forward do you think this proportion of limited spec and mostly built-to-suit is likely to persist for the balance of this year and into next year or if the market and the economic kind of chunks along at this sort of slow recovery space or do you think that if conditions hold us there are in a new supply and risk is low that you guys will continue to expand the spec development in the market to where it make sense?  Well I think for the rest of this year and on into the first part of next year anyway it’s going to stay pretty much as it is.
Pretty limited spec development and more on the built-to-suit side I think we’ll get some more built-to-suit.
Again as I mentioned on the medical office pipeline is pretty big.
So I think we’ll get some more of those signed.
And it’s hard to paint a picture that we’ll do in the next six months or so any more than one or two more spec projects if that many.
Sure.
and then just last one any difference what’s the premium I know you talked about the premium on spec versus market cap rates the 100 to 150.
What’s the differential when you’re looking at the built-to-suit return versus spec?  Well I’ll tell you it’s probably 50 to 75 basis points today because in this environment the build-to-suit industrial development is going on out there.
With the competition today there isn’t a huge spread over what acquisition yields are going for.
If you’ve got a long-term lease with a high-credit tenant you’re only looking at maybe 50 plus or minus basis points spread over what the market acquisition cap rates are.
So again if you got to say acquisition cap rates then go up 50 for a build-to-suit and up another 75 to 100 for spec.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks.
We’ll go to the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Turning to your development side how would you gauge the value creation on maybe if you had to split up between industrial and medical office.
I mean I do see that your expected total yield is about low 7s.
But if you had to split up between the two different segments what do you think those are worth in the open market once stabilized?  Well I would say again I think you’ve got that 125 basis point and 150 basis points spread over today’s values what cap rates would be.
And maybe a little bit less than that on the build-to-suits today but I think pretty much on the medical office stuff.
It’s probably that in the 150 basis point range.
Maybe a little bit less than that maybe more than 100 basis points range on these industrial build-to-suits today.
And can you remind us on your land beings how much of that has been written down and based on impaired values does it? How far are we from making that land being more viable for development?  Ki Bin I’ll take the first part of that.
We started back in 2009.
If you remember we took a significant impairment on our bills or held-for-sales property.
And to that point as we’re holding our land today we’ve took probably a 33% write-down and overall we’re looking at holding our land at $0.77 on the $1.
And where we are right now we’ve got $0.5 billion that we’re holding for development going forward split 70% towards industrial and 30% towards office in alignment with our strategy.
That land is really where we’re starting those spec industrial projects and the spec office project that we started down in Houston and then also a lot of our build-to-suit activities occurring on that land too.
Okay.
That’s right.
So on the remaining portion on land I know it’s kind of a tough question.
But on average within industrial piece first because I guess is most of it from a market rent standpoint how far are we from hitting that hurdle rate?  Well I would say again there is two pieces of land.
What Christie mentioned was the stuff that we just decided we weren’t going to develop and we’re not holding for sale and we did impair that.
And I would say almost three years now since we did that we probably sold about 20% to 25% of that land at basically right at or a little above the impaired value.
Then the rest of that land which is in the neighborhood of $0.5 billion I would tell you that for the most part today’s rental rates could probably support development on there.
The real issue is demand.
There is still just not enough demand in most of these markets for us to feel comfortable starting a spec development because it’s just going to take too long to fill it.
So I don’t think we’re that far off on the land as far as rental rates.
Again I think it’s just what’s really going on in the markets.
Yeah.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you Ki Bin.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go to the line of John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Denny what stabilize cap rate do you think you could achieve on the both distribution building and Chino if you were to sell that today? Probably somewhere around 5 5.25.
Okay.
And Christie sorry to belabor the point I wasn’t quite sure I wanted to make sure that I understood exactly what you were saying about the land and I guess for starters on the $500 million that you do intend to build on did you say that you are carrying that at – so you’ve taken at 30% impairment on that land or the write-down was only on the non-core land? Non-core land John.
Okay.
And I thought I heard you say that the 70/30 split was 70% industrial and 30% office did you – I presume in medical office? No it’s office not medical John.
Yeah John we really don’t have any land to speak of on medical office.
That’s almost always built on the hospital campuses with the long-term land lease.
Again the office land that we still own I would say a couple of things on that.
We still have land in the markets where we have office places like South Florida and Raleigh and some parcels in some of our Midwest offices like Indianapolis.
We also have some land that we talked about last year left in those markets where we sold basically all of the assets to Blackstone.
And so at this point in time our plan is to develop that when it makes sense but it’s pretty much all build-to-suit activity.
And just again as an example we had a parcel land we sold all the Atlanta assets to Blackstone but we had a parcel land up in North Atlanta up in Gwinnett County and we are doing the Primerica build-to-suit on that.
Got it okay.
And then how much – what’s the annualized NOI from the retail holdings? Mark has got… Yeah I think we’ve got that in… It’s not a huge piece right now.
If you look at year-to-date our total was about $5.5 million for the first six months.
For the quarter it’s about $5.5 million.
I’m sorry for the quarter.
So about $5.5 million for the quarter so it’s about $20 million to $25 million John.
That’s perfect.
Okay yeah that makes sense.
And then lastly just a housekeeping question Christie was the lease termination fee in the same store results for the quarter? No it wasn’t John.
Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
And we have a follow-up from the line Joshua Attie with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hey Josh.
Can you hear me? Yeah go ahead.
Perfect.
That’s Michael Bilerman.
I had my phone on mute.
Hi Mike.
On Page 28 just the development pipeline so out of that $460 million of projected costs how much capitalized G&amp;A and capitalized interest is embedded into that cost? It’s a little hard to say because it’s all over the board project-by-project.
But I would tell you capitalized G&amp;A it’s roughly in line with fees that we pay to outside providers.
So typically if you were to assume in there 3% development fee and 2% or 3% construction management fee so 5% or 6%.
That’s roughly the kind of overhead maybe a little bit less than that.
And then interest that just depends on the length of the project.
So I don’t think there is any rule of thumb on the interest capitalization but I would say as far as the operating overhead probably 5%.
And that’s 5% of development cost not of revenues correct? That’s right 5% of project cost.
So that’s probably between the two this yield is being depressed upwards to probably 50 basis points 60 basis points from the capitalization of those costs.
Yeah I suppose.
I don’t think we ever look at it that way because those are true part of the project costs but you’re right yeah.
And then Christie I think you said the G&amp;A you’re going to start capitalizing more.
Can you just give us a sense of how much G&amp;A has been capitalized year-to-date? And then how much you expect for the full-year just as we start to – obviously this is affecting FFO and obviously affects the yield on the development pipeline? Yeah I think the way I look at that Michael is if you look at our guidance of G&amp;A and there were just some comments as it relates to the quarter being a little bit higher.
What I was just trying to articulate is the fact that it’s really gets down to timing and timing of the development starts that we announced together with looking at the lease up.
And when you look at the overall range that we gave for the year being between $43 million and $38 million we’re really comfortable with that G&amp;A.
And we’ll be right at the mid-point to maybe even a little bit better depending on how the developments unwind here throughout the second half of the year which has got some nice momentum on it.
I don’t have in front of me exactly what the dollar amount of what we’ve capitalized so far this year.
But again I would say for mostly on the construction development side it’s roughly 5% of our volume that we have during the year...
That’s good when you look at it.
Just to put it in perspective we’ll probably have 500 maybe a little bit more of construction volume this year.
And then there is some related to the leasing fees that we have.
That number is a little harder to pinpoint but it’s just based on leasing volume and again sort of probably kind of a 50% of what market leasing commissions would be is what we capitalized there.
So hopefully that helps.
And then just on the Chino project.
What’s the development cost on that?  I think it’s about $25 million or something like that of the total project cost on that project yeah $25 million.
Okay.
And so you were saying that the development the 7.4% goes to 7.9% excluding it.
How does that work or did I not hear you’re right?  Say that again.
I thought we had heard that you said the development pipeline excluding Chino would move up 7.9% relative to the 7.4% but that just seems way too big of a spread for us?  No.
I said the 7.9% was sort of our average yield over the leased term.
Yeah.
And they were basically 100% leased high credit tenants and on a long-term leases.
So that excludes Chino altogether.
Yeah and I want to circle back on that comment really quickly which might help with some of this in perspective.
I just want to – just roll back the clock to ‘09 when we really started to articulate the asset strategy.
Since then we’ve invested over $2.5 billion in our business.
And in terms of those investment dollars about 30% of those investment dollars have gone towards over 90% leased product quality product with high credit tenants and 70% of those dollars have been allocated towards developments both build-to-suit and spec as well as opportunities where we’ve got lease up in the acquisitions that we’ve done like Premier.
The 7.9% reference is what the $416 million of developments on Page 28 excluding Chino?  No no the $102 million that we started this quarter excluding Chino on a GAAP basis.
So the 7.4% on Page 28 is a cash basis for a whole pipeline.
The 7.9% is the GAAP basis on the second quarter start excluding Chino.
So even though that has protected stabilized yield that’s projected stabilized yield – cash yield?  Cash on year one year-end.
Other 19.25 is the GAAP yield over the turnover lease.
Got it got it.
Just last question just on the $261 million of acquisitions year-to-date that a 5.6 – at a 6.6 cap rate.
The rents are about $5 they’re obviously 96% leased.
What are market rents? What is the average lease duration for those assets?  For the acquisitions?  Yeah just looking at this on Page 30 right you did $261 million in terms of the total dollars you’ve to put into them and them 6.6 yield that works out to about $5 gross rent and that rent or net rent 96% occupied.
I’m just trying to get a sense of what the lease duration is of that and where market rents are for that space?  Well I don’t have that exact number in front of me but I’ll tell you that I think roughly that’s probably a – it’s a longer term average lease term based on the kind of assets we’re buying so it’s probably six or seven years.
You think that net rent is at or below or above market?  I would say pretty much at but again they all have annual ramp ups.
Okay thank you.
And we’ll go to the line of Jason Jones with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
I was just looking for a quick update on where you stand on your – just thoughts on your current balance sheet metrics and where you see those kind of trending over time?  Sure Jason this is Christie.
Just to talk a little bit about the balance sheet metrics.
As it relates to overall leverage we ended June at about 48% effective leverage and we’re driving over the long-term portion of our strategy to move that to 45%.
It was up a little bit here in the first quarter just because we took advantage of the market on the $300 million unsecured offering that we did.
And specifically as it relates to coverage we ended the quarter at 1.81 times fixed charge coverage and over the long-term we’re driving that coverage ratio above 2 and then we’ll be driving that further as we drive into the end of 2013.
And then looking at debt plus preferred to EBITDA we ended June at a little over 8 tick over 8.
And we’ve been really looking to take down our more expensive preferred and we’ll be doing so in February on the [odes] that are out there and we’ll be looking to drive our debt plus preferred to EBITDA to below 7.75 here in the long-term over our capital strategy so nice progress strengthening balance sheet and we remain focused on it.
Great thanks.
Thanks Jason.
And we have no further questions.
I’d like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
Our third quarter earrings call is tentatively scheduled for November 1.
Thanks again everyone.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Duke Realty Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Ron Hubbard.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Dach.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Christie Kelly Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Mark Denien Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you our December 31 2011 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I'll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone.
First we would like to acknowledge all the people affected by Super-storm Sandy during the past week.
We know that this storm inflicted unprecedented hardship and loss on many particularly those of the East Coast where we have many friends on this call.
So please note that you have been in our thoughts and prayers during this week and I would also just add as a sidebar that it appears that Duke Realty has been very fortunate and our properties have suffered minimal damage from the storm.
So moving on today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments during the quarter in both our operational and asset strategies.
Christie will then address our third quarter financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
We followed up the positive momentum in the second quarter with a very solid third quarter across operations asset repositioning and capital raising.
We signed over 7.4 million square feet of leases in the third quarter and achieved extremely high tenant retention at 90%.
We started $115 million of development projects $44 million of bulk industrial and $48 million of medical office and a $23 million of suburban office project.
Five of our seven new development starts are a 100% pre-leased while two projects are expected to start on our land in markets with excellent fundamentals.
I’ll touch on the developments in a little more detail shortly.
Our in-service occupancy increased 35 basis points from last quarter to 92.5% while our overall occupancy was relatively flat at quarter end at 91.9%.
We made continued progress on our asset repositioning strategy during the quarter with a $92 million medical office portfolio acquisition and generated $34 million of proceeds from disposition of suburban office and non-core industrial and land assets.
On the capital front we issued our second unsecured bond deal of the year of $300 million offering executed at Duke Realty record low effective yield of 3.93% further lowering our cost to capital and further extending our debt maturities.
Christie will speak more in depth on our capital activities in a moment.
As has been the case throughout 2012 economic indicators have been mixed and GDP growth slow.
However some key industrial demand drivers such as consumption port traffic the manufacturing index and trucking indices continue to trend up slightly.
These demand indicators in the longer-term trends in ecommerce and supply chain modernization have put us in a great position given our high quality modern growth portfolio.
These factors are contributing to our strong industrial operations so far this year.
The medical office facility business remains active particularly on the new development side and as you know we recently acquired two larger medical office portfolios which help us expand that piece of our business.
The suburban office sector continues to be sluggish in many markets given the lackluster employment growth but some markets are beginning to show a comeback.
Looking at the remainder of the year we expect continued steady results in our industrial and medical office businesses yet are somewhat cautious on the overall economy going into 2013 until there is more clarity post election as to the U.S.
fiscal situation.
Turning to operations; we had another strong quarter of leasing at 7.4 million square feet bringing year-to-date total to nearly 21 million square feet above last year at this time by over 1.5 million square feet.
As noted earlier we renewed 90% of our leases during the quarter a testament to our best-in-class operations teams and the high quality of our properties.
Run rate growth continues to be positive in most markets at 1% overall growth across the portfolio.
With respect to same property performance we achieved positive same property NOI growth for the 12 months and three months ended September 30th of 3.5% and 2% respectively.
We expect the pace of same property growth to moderate over the next few quarters given the expected slower pace of our occupancy gains and only modest rental rate growth expected in the near-term.
Now let me touch on some key activity within each product type for the quarter.
With respect to leasing in our in-service industrial portfolio we’re continuing to see fundamentals improve with the completion of nearly 1.1 million square foot of new industrial leases and about 4.9 million square feet of renewal and extension leases.
Including new leases on development build-to-suites or industrial leases totaled over 6.6 million square feet.
Bulk industrial in-service occupancy for the quarter rose to nearly 94% 40 basis points above the previous quarter and more than 150 basis points above a year ago.
This reflects the overall relative strength of the bulk industrial market across the country.
11 of our 18 bulk markets are over 95% leased and only three are just slightly under 90%.
We do know that there are some upcoming tenant move-outs so we will need to back though so we do not expect to see a significant increase in that occupancy over the next couple of quarters.
Some of our larger lease deals included a 598 000 square foot five year renewal for a major internet retailer in our Cincinnati market and a 1.2 million square foot renewal for Hachette Book Group a leading global publisher of books for their national fulfillment center in our Lebanon Business Park in Indianapolis.
In Columbus we executed a major new expansion and renewal lease for Restoration Hardware.
The new 418 000 square foot expansion was combined with an extension lease on the existing 805 000 square foot facility we developed back in 2008 all for our future 15 year term.
We also executed an expansion and renewal deal in Chicago at a bulk distribution facility we acquired in late 2011.
The tenant Peacock Engineering signed an expansion totaling a 163 000 square feet and a lease extension at another near by facility totaling 360 000 square feet all for a blended term of 10 years.
The office leasing environment continues to be challenged across most markets as expected.
We maintained our in-service portfolio occupancy at around 86% for the quarter and executed over 550 000 square feet of new and renewal leases.
Some markets such as Raleigh Nashville and Houston where we started speculative office project on our land are picking up with significant new demand.
Most other markets are slow with limited job growth.
In the medical office sector our team continues to take advantage of health system consolidation and the trends for greater outpatient services which continues to drive strong demand for our medical office business.
Our medical office in-service occupancy increased 120 basis points from the previous quarter to 91.9%.
There was also a substantial amount of medical office investment activity this quarter.
We executed one acquisition a portfolio of seven medical office assets totaling $92 million which comprises 334 000 square feet with a mix on and off campus facilities.
The transaction was a sale leaseback for 15 years with the Harbin Clinic the largest independent multi specialty physician practice in the State of Georgia.
Harbin is the dominant healthcare provider in the rapidly growing region of Northwest Georgia.
This was an excellent transaction on which we were directly with the tenant and their advisors over the last several months to complete.
We also announced a significant MLB transaction that closed after quarter end during the month of October.
We acquired a $342 million multi system portfolio that is comprised of 14 buildings totaling $1.2 million square feet.
The acquisition included the assumption of $60 million of debt.
The seller was [Casitas] Healthcare Properties a private investment management firm.
The acquisition is particularly significant for Duke Realty because it gives us a sizeable medical office presence in Florida one of our targeted healthcare markets.
The transaction also increases our holdings of high quality well leased properties that complement our existing healthcare portfolio in the south and southeast areas of the country as well as expands our existing relationships with five different hospital systems including Adventist Health Scott &amp; White Ascension Health and [Dinova] and with the Veterans Administration.
The portfolio is currently 89% leased with over half of square footage leased to Anchor Health Systems or the VA.
The portfolio has an average age of 7.5 years and average remaining lease term of 7.8 years and 13 of the 14 facilities are located on or adjacent to hospital campuses.
This portfolio is one of the highest quality portfolios marketed in the last three to four years and fits strategically into our overall asset strategy.
The combined Harbin and Seavest acquisitions totaled approximately $434 million and have a projected stabilized yield of about 7% with good annual rent increases.
These are strong risk adjusted yields that are immediately accretive to our AFFO and provide long term rental rate growth.
Including the (inaudible) deal which closed quarter end our medical office portfolio now totals nearly $6.2 million square feet and we are now at our asset repositioning target of 15% of our total assets invested in medical office facilities.
I want to congratulate our healthcare and acquisition teams for their excellent work in reaching this goal.
Going forward you will see us focus less on acquisitions and more on building this MOB portfolio through new development with our many healthcare relationships.
Disposition activity was relatively light in the third quarter with $34 million of proceeds $9.4 million was from two non-core industrial assets $8 million from two suburban office assets and $9.3 million from a medical office property held in a joint venture with the remaining proceeds on developed land parcels.
Now turning to development I'm pleased to report that our development starts year-to-date are the strongest in several years.
After $259 million of starts during the first two quarters we started another $115 million across seven projects during the third quarter with a diversified mix of industrial medical office office builder suit and speculator projects.
All consistent with our asset strategy.
In total we have 4.7 million square feet across 18 projects under construction that are 75% pre-leased in the aggregate.
The development start this quarter includes three industrial facilities two projects are the expansion projects I previously mentioned.
The first one is in Columbus a 418 000 square foot expansion for restoration hardware.
We acquired (inaudible) land purchase option at our West Jefferson Park and when complete the bulk industrial facility will total over 1.2 million square feet and serve as a retailer’s primary distribution center for the eastern US.
The second expansion was in Chicago a 163 000 square foot add-on to an existing 243 000 square foot facility we acquired in late 2011.
On both of the expansion projects we're expecting stabilized yields in the 7.25% range.
We also started an industrial spec development a project that briefly mentioned on the last call.
It's a 600 000 square foot facility expandable to 1 million square feet.
Indianapolis fundamentals continue to improve with the current vacancy at 5.2% and rent growth averaging 2% this year.
We're strategically placing this facility in the northwest Indianapolis sub-market in our AllPoints at Anson Business Park.
Though some speculative industrial development is going on in the city no other [bulk] warehouse buildings are planned in the northwest sub-market and we're 95.3% leased in our In-service industrial portfolio.
We started one other speculative deal this quarter a 158 000 square foot phase 2 office building in Houston transaction that I also mentioned on the last call.
The project is located on the remaining 8 acres of our 42 acres Sam Houston Crossing Park in the northwest submarket of Houston.
As I am sure you are all aware that Houston economy and real estate market is very strong and we have high interest in the project.
We project to achieve a stabilized return north of 9% on this building.
Lastly we began three 100% pre-leased on-campus medical developments totaling 181 000 square feet in Atlanta Cincinnati and Indianapolis with an average lease term of 15 years.
Each transaction was sourced from existing tenant relationships Northside Hospital [Tryout] and community health.
Including these three news MOB development starts our medical office development pipeline at quarter end totals 210 million and is 97% pre leased.
Moreover our medical office development pipeline remains robust as we head into 2013.
Our total development pipeline at September 30 stands at 4.7 million square feet totaling 475 million of stabilized costs.
We are projecting a weighted average stabilized yield of 7.3% at an average yield over the initial term of 8.1%.
As you can see our development platform is once again beginning to drive growth.
We are a strategic land bank and key personnel in a number of markets that are experiencing very strong real estate fundamental and we expect to execute on additional build-to-suit and selective spec development opportunities.
I will now turn the call over to Christie to discuss the financial results and capital plans.
Thanks Denny and good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I would like to provide an update on our third quarter financial performance as well as the progress on our capital strategy.
Our third quarter 2012 core FFO was $0.26 per share which is consistent with core FFO per share for the second quarter of 2012.
We generated $0.20 per share in AFFO in the third quarter of 2012 which is slightly down from $0.21 per share in the second quarter of 2012 but under the score improved from $0.18 per share in the third quarter of 2011.
This growth in AFFO over the prior year as a result of the continued successful execution of our asset repositioning and operating plan.
At September 30 we now owned approximately 31% less in service office square footage than a year ago.
For the nine month year-to-date measurement period ending September 30 our AFFO per share has grown 5.2% over the comparable period in 2011 which is inline with the result we predicted when we announced our asset repositioning three years ago.
With regard to payout ratio AFFO for the quarter translates into a conservative 85% while our year-to-date payout ratio is slightly below 84%.
We are pleased with our operating results for the quarter and anticipate continued solid execution throughout the rest of the year.
Turning to the capital side of the business we have successfully generated new capital through several transactions during the quarter in an effort to lower house capital and fund the continued execution of our asset strategy.
In September we took advantage of the favorable interest rate environment and successfully executed a $300 million offering of senior unsecured notes at a 3.93% effective yield.
This offering represents our lowest coupon rate ever for us for a non-convertible issuance.
We are very pleased with the timing and execution of this transaction and by the acceptance of our investors in the market.
We utilize the capital generated during the quarter to repay $191 million of unsecured debts that matured to fund our continued development activity as well as to fund the $92 million Harbin Medical Office portfolio acquisitions.
We ended the third quarter with a $113 million in cash which was utilized in October to repay $50 million of unsecured notes at [debt] maturity as well as to partially fund the Seavest Medical Office acquisitions that closed in October.
During the third quarter of 2012 we issued approximately 5.8 million shares of common stock under our $200 million ATM program generating net proceeds of approximately $85 million.
Since the end of September we have issued an additional $1.5 million of our common shares which generated net proceeds of approximately $22 million.
We have been strategic in utilizing our current ATM program and issuances to-date have averaged $14.87 per share.
Proceeds from this ATM program have been used to fund our acquisition and our development activity as we've communicated.
We generated $34 million in proceeds from non-strategic asset dispositions as Denny previously mentioned.
We also expect disposition proceeds to increase significantly during the fourth quarter.
These proceeds will also be used to fund acquisitions and development expenditures including the Seavest MOB acquisition.
Our liquidity is very solid.
We had no borrowings outstanding on our $850 million line of credit at September 30 and after the previously mentioned $50 million of unsecured debt that was paid off in early October; we have no significant debt maturities until May of 2013.
I will conclude by saying that I'm very pleased with our results for the third quarter and we believe we have continued to execute on all aspects of our strategy.
And with that I will turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Christie.
Yesterday we narrowed our guidance for FFO per share to $1 to $1.04 for 2012.
And we are confident about our opportunities for the fourth quarter.
In closing after a solid quarter we believe our value creation story is gaining momentum as our operations continue to improve with strong occupancy modest rental rate growth our capital raising continues to be highly efficient our delevering plan is on target and our asset repositioning continues with a solid development pipeline and the demonstrated ability to execute strategic acquisitions and dispositions.
Thanks again for your support of Duke Realty and now we will be happy to open it up for questions.
Christie I had a question with the outlook on leverage.
If we go back to the beginning of the year or if we just look at what you guys have done this year acquisitions net of dispositions are $575 million.
You have done $370 million of development starts not spending.
And at the sometime I think your ATM issuance today if we layer in the amount that you have done that’s for October I think it's probably somewhere around $250 million $260 million.
It seem like your leverage is moving up at a time at the beginning of the year when you expect the leverage to move down.
What are you going to do to get leverage down? Brendan I just want to say as it relates to leverage we have basically held that plan with second quarter performance.
We went out in the second quarter with a $300 million offering and we also went out this quarter with a $300 million offering and we've been balancing the compliments associated with our asset strategy really effectively over the last couple of years as it relates to capital strategy execution.
As we look forward we're going to keep pulling the levers that we've put in place to manage our leverage which also include non-strategic dispositions that we've outlined and so specifically what we are going to do get our leverage executed as it relates to our longer range target is continue to execute on non-strategic dispositions and as well to the extent that we are funding growth we're going to fund growth with 60% associated with both equity issuance as well as dispositions.
And we are just going to keep on specifically as you look forward to 2013 we are committed to our goals and view that we are on track to execute those goals as I had communicated previously.
So I guess just sort of thinking about that from a high level if your goals are still that I think debt-to-EBITDA debt plus preferred EBITDA of 7.75 times and debt plus preferred to over GAV of 50% and you are going to fund that kind of the growth with 60% equity call it 40% debt at the margin and then delever via net dispositions is it is that suggesting that to get to those leverage targets that there is a reduction in the asset base because it would seem like there would need to be more equity issue if you were going to meet those targets with growth in the asset base?  Brendan what we said is that we are going to keep our business effectively the same and that’s the way we have really driven forward and so specifically as it relates to equity what we have said is that we are looking to issue equity wrapped around our strategy acquisition and we are also issuing equity very prudently as I had mentioned we have that ATM program out for two years before we pull the trigger and specifically as it relates to the overall price performance on the second ATM program that’s overall been at $14.87 and so while I would love to just snap my fingers and have our multiple specifically inline with our peers particularly if you look at AFFO and the fact that we have moved billions of dollars worth of product in terms of non-strategic dispositions and really grown AFFO.
Hence kept a very modest coverage ratio I would love to have that all work and so we are working at every single day to make sure that we are executing in the best interest of our shareholders and still bring our leverage in alignment with everybody on the phone and our investors would expect of top quality (inaudible) such as ourselves.
Sure and then the other question I had was just with respect to guidance if I look at it’s sort of a same question what you have got your acquisitions were more than expected dispositions thus far it had been a little bit than expected.
And it seems like your core operating metrics are trending ahead of expectation so you are still sort of towards the midpoint you are couple of pennies ahead had but you are kind of near the midpoint is there was it just more issuance on the ATM or was it the September debt offering what caused you from not having your underlying earnings guidance be a little bit higher? Well first Brendan I just want to remind everybody and I know you this is that we bunked our guidance last quarter $0.02.
We are also taking the range and the midpoints above consensus and you are right.
We have been outperforming in terms of operations and as well we’ve really been keeping pace with our peer set as well as outperforming in the market.
And in terms of execution the quality of the earnings is very strong.
It’s really just a matter of timing as well as the fact that we have really invested accretively as it relates to development and that’s going to take a little while to come on line but over the long term those are really value accretion plays for our shareholders.
So I think the message that I would leave everybody with is that we have solid performance we are executing ahead of plan we are specifically driving shareholder value and you can expect us to do that going forward.
Can you tell us what the line of credit balance today after all the deals that you've announced in October? After all the deals that we've announced in October Josh we've got $150 million to $200 million.
And how much you know you've already brought the suburban office portion of the portfolio down to around 30% how much more non-core is there to sell? $500 million or there about.
Okay and how do you think about I think there's also you have almost $180 million of high coupon preferreds that mature or that are redeemable early next year how do you think about funding that; do you have a pipeline of asset sales that a lot could get done between now and then how should we think about those preferreds whether you plan to redeem them early and how you would potentially fund that? We have a strong pipeline of disposition Josh and I'll turn it over to Denny to just to comment a bit on the market and what we are seeing out there.
Josh I think the first thing I would point out is we can't redeem them early they are not redeemable until February of next year.
So otherwise we probably would have done that We've chipped away at everything that we possibly could Josh since the ’09 time period as you know.
And so yeah as Christie said we still have some room to go to get us down to our 25% target overall on the suburban office piece.
As you noted we are at about 30% to 31% right now.
So we are still focused on selling some of those non-strategic assets which will get us there.
And as Christie mentioned in her prepared remarks and I guess going back and looking we really haven't had a balance on our line of credit for a year now.
This is sort of the first balance of any that we've had since we did the Blackstone transaction.
And that's really the way we are operating today.
We are not running a balance on our line at all except for miscellaneous timing differences.
So our intent is to at year end with the closing of the dispositions we have in the pipeline here to have again no balance on our line at the end of the year and then we will just have to see what our close is as to how we fund those preferred potential preferred redemption in early next year or actually late February next year.
So I don't know that we are in a position to exactly answer that yet until we see how the dispositions at close go in the fourth quarter.
And again I would just like to reiterate that we are just going to keep doing what we've been doing and from the perspective of really managing our cash flow forecast together with the acquisition development and disposition we have a very good perspective on what it is that we need to do.
We're involved in following the market every day so that we can pull the trigger at the right time to the extent that it makes sense to do something from an equity perspective and we're just going to keep we're going to keep adding.
If I could just follow up on the dispositions you did a lot last year you did about $115 million to-date and if you take the preferred redemption the line of credit balance that’s about $300 million of asset sales or capital between now and February or March can you just talk about what you have in the disposition pipeline? Is there a lot of good activity? Are there large and chunky deals and that’s why the activity has been slower year-to-date? So I would say yes to both of those.
I guess first of all I would say what I said was I believe with our dispositions in the fourth quarter we won't have a balance in our line of credit from like the Seavest and Harbin acquisitions.
And actually we didn’t have a line of credit after the Harbin didn’t have a balance on the line after the Harbin acquisition.
So we actually have a $113 million of cash at the end of third quarter.
We paid down some $50 million of the debt.
The rest of that went basically towards to the Seavest acquisition and then I think with the disposition proceeds in the fourth quarter we’ll basically took care of Seavest.
But what I also said Josh I think it's still even though it's only three months away it's still little early for us to exactly tell you how we plan to redeem those preferred shares in February because we’ll just have to see how the disposition plan goes over the next three months.
And then going back to your disposition yeah it has been relatively slow for the first basically nine months of this year on the disposition side because we have been working through some tougher assets smaller portfolios but we have also been marketing some larger portfolios and I think you will see that overall disposition activity pickup in the fourth quarter.
I guess just kind of bigger picture right in terms of leverage do you guys feel may be that heading into what could be a recovery may be it makes sense to have a little bit more leverage and take advantage of lower rates; I mean has something changed in your though process? And then along the same line just looking at the supplemental year-over-year your net debt to EBITDA metrics haven’t moved all that much but if you were bake in kind of where we stand today in terms of the acquisitions you have done and then may be and including the EIBTDA from those acquisitions; those were materially better?  I’ll start with the later part of your question first; I mean that’s a matter of timing right.
We ended up by executing the Blackstone transaction here on this a year ago and with that $1.80 billion acquisition that had some EBITDA that went with it and we have been reinvesting for EBITDA generation and as it relates to the outlook yes it’s very solid and stronger EBITDA profile than what our company had before so positive.
As it relates to leverage we are committed to delevering our balance sheet and specifically that's why you have seen us be very measured in terms of what we have executed from an unsecured debt perspective.
We do not view that levering up in this environment is the right thing for our shareholders and we are able to run our business in a disciplined fashion such that we can appropriately manage the investments from the acquisition and development perspective and fund it accordingly without levering up.
So in terms of numbers what is the proforma net debt to EBITDA at today and then what’s your goal? Today we closed the quarter with debt plus preferred EBITDA at a little north of 8 and 8.4 and in terms of the target for 2013 is to bring under at 7.75 which we’re committed to do.
Do you think it has moved as a result of the post quarter transactions? Jamie in terms of post quarter transactions I mean I can get back to you on specifically what that is as it relates to proforma; I am looking at it on a longer term basis given almost $500 million that we have got invested in development.
The significant amount of acquisitions that we have executed over the past 2.5 years and further the income generation from the outstanding operating performance of our in place portfolio.
Okay and then just turning to operations; I mean how are you guys doing on the kind of continuation of the warehouse recovery; it had a very good year to say even like this you don’t have two years do you feel like we can continue the momentum here; you feel like maybe its losing a little steam how are you looking ahead and what are the key drivers.
Jimmy I think its still pretty strong out there right now.
I mean reasonably strong and steady.
I don't really feel like there's anything that's pushing us back.
I would also say that I still wouldn't call us in any kind of a boom in the industrial business I mean we certainly picked up on occupancy really across the country the occupancies are in pretty good shape.
There's still I qualify this except for Southern California.
There's still relatively little spec development going on around the country so we are not in what I would call a high growth mode but leasing activity is still pretty strong and I think when you look at an economy that's growing at between 1.5% and 2% I think we should all feel pretty good about the industrial fundamentals and how they have been.
Again looking forward pending of some kind of resolution to the whole fiscal cliff issue I think we are looking at again in 2013 growth like we've seen this year in the 1.5% to 2.5% and I think if that occurs we will see continued slow and steady improvement in the industrial business.
You know if the fiscal cliff causes the economy to turnaround and go into a recession or negative growth next year than it’s probably a different story.
I think we will see some stagnation in the industrial business if that happens and probably most other businesses.
My only point there is as it relates to Duke Realty we have very modest lease rollover and some of the longer lease terms in the industry.
So as we look at what's in front of us and as it relates to the risk profile whether that be asymmetric to the downside or not I would say we have a very solid performance profile going forward.
The only other thing I will add to that too is as it relates to our progress to date our beta has come in significantly and something that we track every month every quarter every year and we have improved our beta over 20% over the past year of execution on our asset strategy which has been better than office industrial as well as the healthcare comps and over the five year average we’ve brought that in 30%.
So we are very focused on making sure that we have the right risk profile and further to that are prepared for any risk off sort of environment that we maybe heading into for 2013.
Okay and then I think on the call you had mentioned some known move-outs that you are now expecting warehouse occupancy to grow can you talk us through some of those.
Yeah there's a couple of bigger ones that come up I think mostly early next year.
The one that I would mentioned specifically is Wal-Mart in Savannah is an 800 000 square feet.
They have given us notice that they are not going to renew that lease.
And then it’s a combination of a few again also in that several hundred thousand square feet and I'm not talking about 50 000 square feet or so I'm talking about a few bigger ones.
So we just have some work to do on that (inaudible).
Anything on the office side? Not really.
No not really.
I can’t think of anything significant on the office side coming at us.
What's hurt us more on the office side over the last 12 months is some unanticipated bankruptcies.
So hopefully we don’t have anymore of those coming at us.
Okay and then finally just looking at the same store page so medical office you got 8.1% NOI growth you had 0.9% occupancy growth.
Can you just talk us through some of those numbers? How do you get such big revenue growth and such big expense growth in that business and then also you had mentioned those bumps on the new acquisition? What's the magnitude of those bumps? Well first of all all are the same property in the medical [offer] I think you have to remember that’s a relative small portfolio still today and it's a relatively new and growing portfolio.
So a lot of that increase of NOI I will call in excess of occupancy is really some (inaudible) free rent that has been out there but then there is also again within that portfolio there is good annual run rate increases higher than we would see on the industrial side pretty much throughout that portfolio and that’s generally in the 2% to 3% range sometimes even a little higher than that and that would also be true of the medical office acquisitions that we recently completed.
Denny I know you referenced the fiscal cliff and just the wild card there and talked about reducing the risk profile from an operational perspective but how do you think about levering up a bit here with some of the acquisitions that you’ve made out of that uncertainty? Well again John what I would say is we don’t view that we are levering up.
We’ve always said through this repositioning cycle that we have been going through here that things aren’t going to always match up.
Sometimes dispositions would occur before acquisitions and sometimes acquisitions would occur before dispositions.
But I think if you look at our history over the three years or so in doing this we were pretty fortunate and matched them up pretty well and so what we are seeing is that we still think we have got that matching going on and by the end of this year everything should be matched up again and nobody will think that we have levered up to do this.
By the end of this year okay.
And then Christie you had mentioned that you would contemplate an equity issuance wrapped around a strategic acquisition do you see best one such? John we thought about that and given the strength of the disposition pipeline and what we saw coming for in front of us that we didn’t really think that that was the appropriate response for our investors.
Okay so in other words we shouldn’t expect to taking Denny’s comments about having everything lined up by the end of this year.
We shouldn’t expect a marketed deal between now and year end if there is any equity issuance they would likely be on ATM? I would say that’s probably right John and again it just depends on how the disposition activity goes and where a lot credit balances because we basically said we are trying to keep that line of credit eventually zero and timing wise it will go and down little bit but we want to keep it at zero.
Okay and then last week Denny just wanted to get your thoughts in terms of whether you think you are being compensated or what you think as the appropriate margin to be compensated for the risk of development specially when you think about kind of stabilize yield on the pipeline of 73 and cap rates here at 7 stabilized do you think you can buy that? Well I think when you look at our development pipeline today John it is really I would say pretty nominal risk in it.
That called $475 million pipeline is 75% freely since most almost all the vacancy is in those three spec holdings that we started in the second and third quarter this year.
So I think we are taking very very minimal risk almost the rest of the pipeline is basically 100% lease build to suits.
Most of it on the MOB side but I guess a little bit of the industrial like those two expansions that I mentioned that are also 100% lease.
So I really think there is almost no risk in our development pipeline today.
This is a fair point but also with those kinds of margins you are not creating a lot of value either? I would tell you we are when you look at those.
Again a lot of this are MOB with buildings with 15 leases (inaudible) 15 years with high credit tenants then those are going to trade at fix cap today I think even getting a 100 or 125 basis points or more yield we are creating some value there a lot of value.
So Denny a follow-up just wanted to ask you a little bit about the Houston spec office building.
Houston is not a big market for you guys especially on the office side and I guess from your prepared comments this is an add-on into the existing parks that you guys have but should we take this deal as indicative that you are likely to grow more in Houston and specifically on the office side? No I guess that's two different questions.
One is yes I think we are likely to grow more in Houston but two not on the office side.
Again this is a site when we first moved into Houston five years or six years ago now I guess.
We bought one site right on the eight (inaudible) on the northwest side sort of north northwest.
We built a spec building just basically an identical building to what we are building now.
We leased it up to a 100% it’s a 100% leased today and we have ones we’ve sold some of the land and we had one site left to again just do a rear building right on the (inaudible).
So that market is so strong right now I mean the office vacancy in that submarket is under 5% and so and it was a lot of demand in the market.
So we just made a decision now is the right time to start that building and we've got I would say I think that building is a 158 000 square feet I would say we've got 450 000 square feet of prospects for that building today and its not going to be done until mid next year.
So we feel really good about that one and its just one of those isolated areas where we had a piece of ground that it was time of build on.
And related to that and we've had this discussion about land periodically for the past several years but I don't think you and I at least have talked about it.
Over the past couple of quarters your land balance its over $2 a share and its remained relatively high and I know that the amount of development starts that are out there are somewhat sluggish and some of the development that you are doing is build-to-suit that's not on land that you have an inventory now but do you see a pathway to getting that balance down to more reasonable levels over the next few years or do you think in this and you call it a 2% economy that its just going to be a higher balance than you would like to carry for a while? Well a couple of things I would say relative to land and development combined here.
First of all it’s been pretty difficult to really sell any land in this market.
The last two years have been two of the slowest years we've ever had on just selling land in the more like $20 million to $30 million range.
So we've had a little success there and but not a whole lot.
Second development has been pretty slow but I think as far as the industrial and the office development that we've started we've employed some land there which is good and this for example some of the expansion work we had we put on our land.
We've done some build-to-suits on our land over the last couple of years in the industrial side and then on the office side that Primerica deal that office deal we got going in Atlanta was a 15 year lease with Primerica who is A rated company and that use some of our land for our legacy part and then I take a lot of all of spec development that we started the three projects were on our existing land.
So now I think we're starting to see an acceleration of deploying that land in the development and then the final piece I would say our land is the medical office business doesn’t really we don’t own any land for that and really don’t employ any of our land generally speaking and if we are employing our own land we buy it right as we are starting the project.
So a lot of that is on long-term ground leases.
So yeah if you could always target the exact amount of land that you wanted to own certainly over the last three years or four years we would have owned as much as we did but now we got some really key strategic land positions there and I think we are going to be able to take advantage of them as development picks up.
If you are $613 million today? Where do you kind of see that balance trending over the next several years and where would you like to get eventually?  Well I think we probably want that somewhere down in $350 million to $400 million.
We would probably be more of a target for us and there is couple of reasons for that but two other major ones are increase in our MOB business because we don’t need land for that and now that’s going to be 15% of our business and actually right now it’s been a higher percentage than that on our development business.
And then second the suburban office piece of the business is more expensive land then the industrial piece so that’s now down from if you think about where we started this repositioning which was sort of in the middle of this downturn we were at 55% suburban office and so now we are down to around 30% right now.
So going forward I think you are going to see a lot lower investment and may be even almost no investment in suburban office development land.
And about how long do you think it will take to get down to those levels?  Well can you tell me what the economy is going to be like for the next two years or three years then I can answer that question.
Let’s say it’s the same as it is?  I think it will take us at least three or four years to get there.
Thanks.
On the suburban office portfolio the same-store growth has been flat to up year-to-date and the occupancy has been kind of flattish can you talk about what the driver that growth has been and also what the rent spreads are?  Well Josh I would say couple of things the occupancy has been relatively flat because strategically to get to our target when we lease up a building we it’s ready to sell we sell it if it’s not in our one of our longer-term strategic market.
So some of that occupancy stay in right there at 85% to 86% level it’s been driven by our strategic plan.
As far as the same-store growth goes we have been I would say that portfolio generally speaking has been pretty stable especially post Blackstone disposition some markets have gone up a little bit and been good as I mentioned earlier.
Our occupancy in Raleigh today is I think 94.5% on the suburban office site so it’s been very strong.
We struggled a little bit in St.
Louis.
We have lost a little bit of our occupancy there but if you look at in the aggregate it’s been pretty stable.
So we’ve at least been able to hold our row and generate a little bit of same-store growth from that property even in this environment.
What kind of role what have been the rents spreads on new leases generally that portfolio? Well last year a little bit positive but I think when you look back at that portfolio most of a lot of that is in the markets where we had big fluctuations in rent.
So we haven't had any big decreases in rental rates for the most part on that portfolio.
It’s flat up on a GAAP basis or a cash basis? GAAP is how we count.
So probably down a little bit on cash? Potentially but not much I wouldn’t say because I would say we would also say we don’t get as bigger bumps in rent on suburban office side as we are getting on clearly medical office side and probably not even on industrial today.
Okay and then one more question on the build-to-suite industrial project in Chino that opens I think early next year what's the activity and there's nothing leased yet what's the activity been and do you expect that to be fully leased when it opens or will it take 12 months after it’s finished to kind of lease up? Yes it won't be complete until I think towards the end of the first quarter next year.
The activity has been pretty good.
We've had some pretty good discussions with folks.
We are probably going to want to since we are starting limited spec development out there we are going to be more inclined to hold what we want our rental rates to be especially I would say that market so I can't really say whether it will be leased when it opens fully leased but I think it will lease in what our proforma timeframe was for that development.
Denny similar to the question I asked on warehouse can you talk a little bit more about suburban office in terms of I know you had mentioned some markets that are getting stronger but in general there has been a lot of talk about less space per employee tenants wanting more efficient space wanting new construction kind of what are you seeing across your entire portfolio outside the top markets that maybe further drag on the recovery rather than just job growth? Well Jamie I think we've seen the trend of less space per employee and a few of those different things now for the last decade probably.
So I think that trend is maybe continuing but that was probably about out of steam because you just can't go any further.
And then the other thing that happens is our parking rate is parking really because our parking ratio used to be 3% to 3.5% per thousand square feet.
Today we are building them at maybe 4.5% to 5.5% per thousand square feet if we are building them or some tenants are demanding that.
So it just gets harder to fit more people in there.
And then if you try to do that then your cost goes up you know new construction can't compete because the cost goes up because of the office land you need more land to put that parking or you need to build that.
So your basis goes up.
So again I think there are some competing factors there.
I would say that I think the main driver of the suburban office business today is really demand and how companies how confident companies are feeling.
So when we see growth we see companies whose business is doing really well and they need more space and they are expanding.
In most other places we just see companies just holding the same or even slightly downsizing when they want to renew.
And I think that's just been a consistent theme and even though we are starting to see some job growth that appears maybe a little bit more than we were only in certain markets are we seeing that translate into the net significant net absorption in the suburban office business.
I would like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at NARIET Conference in San Diego in a few weeks.
Or if not we will reconvene during our fourth quarter and year end earnings call in late January.
Thank you.
Take care everybody.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Duke Realty Fourth Quarter and Year End 2012 Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer period.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) Also as a reminder today’s conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Ron Hubbard.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Ann.
Good afternoon everyone.
And welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and CEO; Christie Kelly Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mark Denien Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you our 10-K that we have on file with the SEC dated February 25 2011.
Now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron and good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments during 2012.
Christie will then address our financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
We’ll then share more details on our 2013 guidance.
Our solid operational performance strong new development starts and continued progress in repositioning the composition of the portfolio consistent with our strategic plan resulted in an outstanding year for Duke Realty.
A few of the highlights for the year were as follows.
We signed a near record 29 million square feet of leases and achieved a record 83% tenant retention rate.
We improved in-service occupancy to 93% and grew same property NOI 2.5%.
We commenced $520 million in new development starts and acquired over $800 million of industrial and medical office properties and completed $153 million in dispositions again in accordance with our repositioning strategy.
And we issued $600 million of unsecured debt at weighted average yield of 4.2%.
I’ll now touch a little bit on the overall market conditions that we are experiencing and how that is affecting our business.
First let me say that we did not really feel the effects of the fourth quarter negative GDP growth announced yesterday.
Overall activity in all product types was reasonably consistent for us this quarter.
Industrial market across the country remained solid as reflected in our portfolio.
All the three of our markets are over 90% leased and nine are over 95% leased.
Leasing activity is robust and build-to-suite development is active on a national level.
Net demand for warehouse space was 40.8 million square feet in the fourth quarter making it the second strongest quarter since record keeping began in 1993.
An example of this strength is Indianapolis industrial market which is just 3.3% vacant only 1.7% vacant in the bulk product.
Most markets generally have well under 10% vacancy rates today.
We are seeing an increase in speculative construction starts but it’s still not look at a level that is concerning in any market.
The medical office business continues to benefit from ongoing structural changes in the industry.
Hospital consolidation is happening at a strong pace physician’s practices are being sold to major hospital systems and all healthcare providers are adapting to the implementation of the Affordable Care Act.
This is driving strong demand in our medical office business.
Last year we started nearly 200 million of healthcare projects and we have a strong backlog of potential development projects that we’re working on.
Another trend we are seeing is major hospital systems opening freestanding emergency facilities throughout major metropolitan areas.
These projects are structured as long-term net lease transactions and we anticipate this will become a small part of our overall healthcare portfolio with a few of our major customers in larger markets.
As you know we completed the acquisition of 14-building portfolio early in the fourth quarter and we’re very pleased with our operations so far.
Overall healthcare is a very strong piece of our business.
The suburban office business is still slow but activity seems to be stabilizing at a slightly higher level.
We have seen more customers in the market for larger spaces as well as an increase in build-to-suite interest from our major companies.
And there is very little if any speculative development happening with the possible exception of Houston which I will touch on later.
As for operating results of our portfolio the in-service occupancy was 93.0% at December 31st up 50 basis points for the quarter and up 230 basis points from year end 2011 occupancy of 90.7%.
This is our highest in-service occupancy in more than a decade reflecting great leasing activity in our limited spec development starts.
We signed approximately 29 million square feet of leases in 2012 including 8.3 million square feet during the fourth quarter.
We also achieved a lease renewal rate of nearly 85% for the fourth quarter and for the full year retain an all-time record 83% of our expiring leases.
The occupancy increase was driven by our bulk industrial portfolio which now stands at an excellent 94.6%.
This is reflection of the quality of our local operating teams and strategically located high-quality properties.
Same property NOI for the three and 12 months ended December 31st was a positive 1.6% and positive 2.5% respectively.
This is a great result when you consider the relative slow economic growth we saw in 2012 particularly in the fourth quarter.
Bulk industrial is also leading the way on same property performance at a strong 3.1% growth.
This growth was driven by both occupancy growth and growth in our net effective rental rates at our bulk properties.
Now let me touch on some of the key results within each product type for the year and fourth quarter.
Leasing activity was terrific in our industrial portfolio as we signed over 7.3 million square feet of leases during the quarter.
Some of our larger lease deals signed during the quarter included a 506 000 square foot renewal lease combined with 161 000 square foot expansion for 5.5 years with McGraw-Hill in Columbus Ohio a 463 000 square foot renewal with Genco Distribution for four years also in Columbus a 600 000 square foot five-year renewal lease with Crossroads Centers in our Indianapolis market a 275 000 square foot renewal for five years with Ford Motor Company in Orlando and we signed a 159 000 square foot new lease with Essilor of America for eight years in Dallas.
Despite the challenging office sector fundamentals previously mentioned our team performed well in 2012 executing 3.4 million square feet of leases for the year and over 750 000 square feet in the fourth quarter increasing our in-service occupancy to 86.3% a 90 basis point improvement from year end 2011.
Some of our notable fourth quarter lease deals include a 94 000 square foot renewal lease with ATOS IT Solutions in Cincinnati a 35 000 square foot new lease with the GSA in Cleveland and a combined 104 000 square foot expansion and renewal lease with Panera restaurants in St.
Louis.
Our medical office portfolio continues to produce strong results with over 900 000 square feet of leases signed during the year ending the year with an overall occupancy of 92.5% a 350 basis point improvement over year end 2011.
We also made solid progress in our asset strategy during the quarter and for the full year.
As you know our asset strategy is focused on the acquisition and development of high quality industrial and medical office assets and the reduction of our suburban office portfolio.
In accordance with this strategy we acquired 440 million of industrial and medical office assets totaling over 2.9 million square feet in the fourth quarter bringing the total executed acquisitions to $800 million for the year.
On the disposition side proceeds from the fourth quarter were $26 million and $153 million for the year.
With this activity we ended the year allocated 51% to bulk industrial 29% to office 16% to medical office and 4% retail toward our strategic goal of 60% industrial 25% office and 15% medical office.
We acquired four bulk industrial facilities in strategic markets during the quarter.
We acquired two properties in key Northern California Central Valley Submarket a 726 000 square foot facility which is 100% leased to ConAgra for their main western region distribution center and a 552 000 square foot facility 100% leased to Delicato Wines.
In the Chicago market we acquired a 288 000 square foot vacant industrial facility in an off-market transaction in the I-55 corridor where we own 10 existing facilities.
In a testament to our best-in-class local market teams simultaneous with the closing of this acquisition we lease 66% of the space to an existing tenant from one of our other nearby facilities that was looking for expansion space.
We purchased the building at roughly 25% below replacement costs and we expect the investment to general -- generate a stabilized yield of approximately 7.7%.
Finally we acquired 135 000 square foot industrial facility in the Southeast Houston Submarket that is also 100% leased.
During the quarter we close our previously announced medical office acquisition of Seavest Healthcare a very high quality 14 building 1.2 million square foot primarily on campus portfolio that was 89.2% leased at closing.
Through an existing customer relationship we also acquired a small 60 000 square foot medical office building in Cincinnati and on-campus facility that is 100% lease for 15 years.
As we stated recently going forward you will see our medical office focus on build-to-suite developments with limited acquisitions occurring through existing Tenet Healthcare existing healthcare relationships.
We are very happy with the high quality mix of acquisitions this quarter which combined our estimated earnings 6.9% weighted average stabilized yield with solid annual rent growth over the average lease term in place of six years.
Turning to development we started 19 new projects during 2012 totaling $520 million in projected stabilized cost an excellent year which shows its strength of the Duke Realty development platform.
During the fourth quarter we started four build-to-suit projects one industrial and three medical office.
Starting with industrial we are under construction on a 1.02 million-square-foot bulk industrial facility in South Seattle off Interstate 5.
Facilities are 100% leased for 15 years to a major retailer.
The three medical office build-to-suit projects totaled 126 000 square feet are with existing hospital system relationships Scott &amp; White and Good Samaritan.
One facility is located in Cincinnati Ohio and the other two are in North and Central Texas.
All three projects are also 100% leased for 15 years.
On a combined basis our fourth quarter build-to-suit projects have a weighted average GAAP yield of 7.8%.
And finally I’d like to deliver some exciting news in our Houston market that occurred shortly after year-end.
The office market at Houston is extremely strong and as you know we started 155 000 square foot speculative project in third quarter of last year on our one remaining office site.
I’m pleased to report in January we signed 109 000 square foot new lease with Forum Energy Technologies take 68% of the space of this project.
The lease term is for term of 10 years and will commence immediately upon completion of the project in July of this year.
We have solid prospects for the remaining space and hope to open this project substantially pre-leased.
Also in January we signed two contracts to sell some or all of our interest in two primarily office joint ventures.
The total sales price for our interest is approximately $150 million.
We expect both of these sales to close before year-end -- before the end of February and generate net proceeds to us net of debt of nearly $90 million.
So with that I’ll now turn the call over to Christie.
Thanks Denny and good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I would like to provide a recap of our 2012 financial performance and progressed on our capital strategy.
I’m please to report that core FFO for the quarter was $0.27 per share up from $0.26 per share in the third quarter and $1.02 per share for the full year.
Core FFO for the year was at the midpoint of our previously communicated guidance of one penny per share higher than consensus.
More significantly we are pleased to report AFFO of $0.82 per share for the full year and $0.21 per share for the quarter.
AFFO per share for the full year represents over 5% improvement from 2011 results and translates into a conservative payout ratio of slightly below 83%.
As we projected this growth in AFFO over the prior-year as a result of executing our strategic asset repositioning which was accelerated by the Blackstone office disposition in December 2011 while steadily increasing our investment in less capital intensive bulk industrial properties and medical office facility.
As Denny mentioned earlier our near-record leasing volume in 2012 combines with the fact that we enjoyed our first full year of rental rate growth on lease renewals since the beginning of the Great Recession enabled us to achieve 2.5% same property NOI growth over 2011.
Our efforts to reposition our investment from suburban office properties into what we believe to be stronger bulk industrial and medical office product types were also key in achieving this growth.
From a capital strategy perspective we issued 22.7 million shares of common stock during the year pursuant to our ATM program generating net proceeds of approximately $315.3 million.
We also generated $600 million of capital through two unsecured debt offerings that bear interest in an average interest rate of 4.2%.
During 2012 we redeemed our $168 million up 6.95% Series M Preferred Shares.
We also repaid $200 million of unsecured notes before interest at a weighted average effective rate of 5.87%.
$102 million of secured loans that had weighted average effective rate of 5.18% as well as a consolidated subsidiary of $41.3 million variable rate lending facility.
We use the proceeds from our capital raising activities to further increase our investment in quality industrial and medical office acquisitions as we planned and fund our strong development pipeline.
We ended the year with $285 million outstanding on our line of credit.
As most of you are aware just after year-end and in early January we took advantage of stable capital market conditions and executed our common equity offering to significantly advance our capital strategy.
We raised $572 million of net proceeds which was used to pay off our $285 million year-end line of credit balance and leaves us with additional capital to redeem our 8.375% Series O Preferred Shares in February of this year.
The offering was well-timed given market condition was executed at an efficient calling cost and reduces our leverage in alignment with our plan.
The strong global demand for the offering resulted in one of the lowest follow-on offerings in the last 12 months.
We had orders for over 85 million shares at the high end of our range.
So we upsized our original 30 million share offering to 36 million shares and the underwriters exercised issue to fill more of the demand.
We now estimate that nearly all of our leverage goals we have presented will be met by year-end 2013 without significant further equity offerings.
As we look forward this year we have $547 million of debt maturities which we plan to repay through a combination of disposition proceeds and refinancing with long term unsecured debt.
As previously communicated we expect to selectively tap our ATM program to fund a high quality strong yielding development pipeline on roughly a 60:40 basis with equity to debt overtime which will also contribute to continued overall de-leveraging in alignment with our plan.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Christie.
Yesterday we announced a range for 2013 FFO per share with a midpoint of $1.07 and AFFO per share with a midpoint of $0.86 per share.
This guidance supports what we have been saying for the past three years that our asset repositioning strategy would not be dilutive on a cash-flow basis and would ultimately put the company on an upward plain of growth which is now occurring.
Overall we expect continued slow economic environment in 2013 which is reflected in our guidance.
A few specifics on some of the anticipated key performance metrics outlined on the 2013 range of estimates page provided on our website are as follows.
Our average portfolio occupancy range for 2013 is expected to be 92.0% to 94.0%.
Lease expirations are slightly below average at 9%.
Same property NOI is projected at a range of positive 1% to positive 4% growth.
Occupancy growth is slowing but we expect slightly improved rental rate growth.
On the capital recycling front we project proceeds from building dispositions in the range of $400 million to $600 million and proceeds from land dispositions of between $15 million and $25 million.
Again our disposition program will focus on suburban office assets and our remaining retail properties.
As previously noted we are already under contract on 25% of the high-end of our guidance.
Acquisitions are projected in the range of $300 million to $500 million.
We remain selective and focused on high-quality industrial assets in alignment with our long-term strategy.
Development starts are projected in the range of $400 million to $500 million.
These will be primarily industrial and medical office building build-to-suit projects.
We’re very pleased with where we are in our strategic plan efforts and the result is producing for our shareholders.
We’ve consistently believe that execution of both our asset repositioning and capital de-leveraging strategies would drive above sector average performance and that is reflected in our strong performance in 2012 and are expected continued growth in 2013.
With that thank you again for your support in 2012 and for joining us today.
And now we will open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Paul Adornato from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Denny in your prepared comments you mentioned that spec development is returning in a lot of markets but it’s still had a level that’s very not very concerning.
I was wondering if you could just tell us who is developing spec now and how they’re getting financing? I would say it’s a mix Paul of the usual suspects I guess I would say.
I think there is some of the public REITs that have started spec project in some of the major markets.
I think we’ve seen a little bit from again the usual folks PLD EGP started some in their market’s DCT.
On the private side again I would say it’s some of the usual suspects.
IDI has several speculated projects underplay in various markets around the country.
But again the interesting thing is I would say with the possible exception of Southern California we’re only seeing maybe one or two in most markets.
So it’s really nothing that’s -- really overwhelming out there today.
Okay.
And looking at the suburban office portfolio what’s the appetite out there for acquiring suburban office assets that is what are your disposition prospects.
And do you have any buildings or markets that are for sale? I think the advertise is pretty good Paul.
The interest rates obviously have remained low.
And the banks are lending.
What we’ve really found which is pretty consistent with what we’ve been saying I would say over the last year or so.
Is that in order to have a successful sale today we really need properties that are in -- at least the mid-80s lease so above 85%.
We are paying a lot of attention to the lease expiration schedule during the next three years.
And if you can keep that at a fairly reasonable level those properties are very saleable today.
We’ve seen different folks buy.
We are seeing some private smaller private equity folks.
We’ve seen some larger I would say private equity folks in the market.
And we’ve been actively marketing certain properties and I think you will see us actually list some additional properties for sale here in the next month or so.
And again it’s really focused on the markets that we want to downsize our suburban office presence in which is really our remaining Midwest cities because that’s really where our older suburban office projects are today.
Okay.
And what kind of cap rates are you seeing in suburban office these days? Well I think we are probably going to be seeing somewhere again in the 8.5% to 9% on in place NOI today.
Again it just depends on the portfolio.
I think we’ll do better than that on some properties and maybe a little bit worse than on some depending on how old they are and just really the quality of the property.
We’ve got some I would say real true Class-A properties in the suburbs and I think today they are probably at sub-A percent cap.
And then again when you look at some of our 25 or 30 year-old industrial projects those are probably going be closer to the low 9s.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Paul.
Thanks Paul.
And our next question comes from Josh Attie with Citi.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Good afternoon.
It’s Michael Bilerman here with Josh.
Denny or Christie I’m just curious just in terms of the way you approach sort of capital plans and capital issuances and whether that’s going to change in the future.
And I guess I’m sort of thinking back to when you did the medical office portfolio in the fourth quarter and put it on the line with the target to do asset sales and those asset sales ended up falling out of bed.
And the market with hospitable at the time you did the offering which was good.
But there was a significant likelihood that it may not have been clearly everything that happened in D.C.
with the fiscal Cliff.
The market could have reacted a lot different.
We could have been in a much weaker situation and then you would have been in a very difficult situation with high leverage and extended underlying the credit.
So I’m just curious sort of as you go forward are you going to shift to make sure that you are even more under leveraged to be able to not put yourself into any sort of box where you are going to be the hold into the equity market to delver? Michael I’ll start off.
First just from an operating perspective we’ve been very conservative in terms of managing our line of credit and our liquidity has been quite quite strong.
As you know we rarely outside of just timing differences run any balance on our lines and that’s been since the ‘09 time period.
And we’re continuing to focus on that operating principle.
Nothing has changed here at headquarters in Indianapolis.
And specifically as it relates to the third quarter we were looking at a strong disposition pipeline a couple of those dispositions.
As we discussed in the process and in the presentation for the equity offering moved away for us.
But again we are looking at this year with a very strong disposition pipeline.
And in fact we went to the market here at the beginning of January and executed an excellent transaction for our shareholders and have put the capital strategy goals and objectives substantially behind us as we had articulated.
And then as I mentioned in my comments we are going to continue delevering as the opportunity presents itself and we continue to drive value for our shareholder with our exceptionally strong development pipeline.
Okay.
I guess how do you think about the offering also relative to your own views of NAV? I think you have expressed at Investor Meetings an $18 to $19 number and while the stock is above you need to be offering at $14 $25 obviously doing the amount of that you did as well as the ATM in the fourth quarter.
It obviously has a pretty big dilutive effect to NAV.
It was earnings enhancing because you didn’t sell assets but it was NAV dilutive.
I guess how do you think about those dynamics? I think there are couple of things Michael.
First of all we did a significant amount of third party diligence in order to be able to really stand behind this equity offering.
And bottom line our stock price over the past 12 months had traded below our issuance price 70% at the time.
And as we said in ‘09 the things aren’t always going to work out perfectly and that it is going to be a sequence of events with the journey and I think to that point the $590 million overnight offering that we executed was [de-tighted] as side offer discount that had been seen one of the tide as they’ve been seeing in the market over the past 12 months.
And our investors have responded extremely favorably and our stock prices up over 7% since then.
And so from that perspective very well received well retimed and excellent results for our investors and we will continue to approach the market with the same focus diligence and prowess.
Christie or Denny this is Josh.
Can you talk about in more detail why the sales didn’t occur in the fourth quarter? Was there a lack of demand or was an inability to kind of to get the price between with you and the buyer? Josh.
Really there was one larger transaction that we had been working on for a period of time prior to our call at the end of the third quarter call at the end of October.
And that transaction just -- the buyer just walked away from it and I quite honestly can’t -- I can’t explain why the buyer walked away from it because we had essentially agreed on price long before that.
So I wish I could give you a better answer but I can’t.
And just lastly I know there was a smaller dollar amount but the $25 million of assets sales in the fourth quarter and in the ‘11 cap can you just explain why that cap rate was so high? Yeah.
That was a small portfolio.
We called it industrial but it was really much less.
I mean it was really sort of single-story suburban office stuff that had been built and it was in Indianapolis and it was -- I think it was 440 000 square feet or something like that and it was built in the early 80s.
It just was -- it’s not great property and it was just again one of those projects we had taken off the list.
And as you saw it was $120 million transaction.
And did you mentioned -- I’m sorry if I missed it.
But did you mentioned what cap rate you are assuming on $400 million to $600 million of sales in the 2013 guidance? Around 8% in place cap rate.
On a cash basis? Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks Josh.
And our next question comes from Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
So Denny I just wanted to clarify.
So I thought you said cap rates were 8.5% to 9% on in place NOI for suburban office assets that were 85% leased kind of give or take.
But then did you just say 8% you thought was included in guidance.
I think overall that’s what we are assuming in our 600 million acres we’ve got some of our retail assets that we believe we’ll sell this year and I think those will sell for a cap rate a little less than that.
Okay.
Yeah.
It’s really significantly less than that.
Yeah.
So I had a couple of questions.
One I guess if I look at your suburban office exposure and what you like to sell.
St.
Louis is 74% occupied Cleveland 75% occupied Cincinnati is 85.
Is that -- is that 85% threshold number sort of a hard number or do you think that you sell? Do you sell St.
Louis and Cleveland which are materially below that number? But I think what you are going to see us do initially is take the assets that within those markets that are at the 85% plus lease up occupancy and put those on the market and sell those and then our local teams are working on leasing up that vacant space.
So as you will see us as project -- projects are leased up and ready to go we will start listing those.
So that’s really how it’s going to work I believe Brendan.
Okay.
And if I go back to I think you guys provided maybe with NAREIT maybe it was sometime around then.
My recollection was there was $500 million of non-core suburban assets left to sell and then $300 million I think was retail.
So at the midpoint of your guidance for ‘13 you are about $300 million short.
Is that just something that maybe bleeds into ‘14 just to give it -- it’s hard to get $800 million of sales done in a year? Well right now what we put in on the range of estimates of $400 to $600 million is really just our best guess of what we can get done this year.
So I believe I would answer your question yeah.
And I just point out something again on the range of estimates.
We’ve been doing that every year for a long time now and I think you can look at 2012 but you can look at previous years and we are pretty accurate on all those and getting our numbers to fall within those ranges.
Probably the couple that we occasionally missed are the size of our disposition pipeline and the size of our acquisition pipeline because that’s really hard to predict.
And it’s been harder because we have been doing more recycling in the last couple years.
As you know we are now a lot closer to our target product mix.
So that recycling is slowing down a little bit but those are very hard to predict because you don’t know if a big transaction is going to come along or not.
So the $400 million to $600 million is really our best guest right now.
Sure.
And then as I look at that capital plan for the year I just wanted to clarify what’s in guidance I know the development starts at the $400 million to $500 million if I look at what’s in the current pipeline and what the spend is likely to be it’s probably in that range too.
So Christie if I heard your comment correctly on the ATM issuance I guess that probably implies $250 million or $300 million of ATM during the year and is that accurate and is that included in your FFO range?  Yeah.
We’ve got cash Brendan.
And we’ll be generating operating cash flow and we’ll be going forward essentially matching dispositions with acquisitions.
So from an ATM perspective that’s a little high and we’ll see how the development pipeline comes about.
Yeah I mean I know you’re retaining some cash flow as you get the AFFO payout at and give or take 80% but you’ve got and your dispositions are offsetting your acquisitions as you mentioned but you’ve got the development spend.
So I think you mentioned in your comments 60% of the development spend is likely to be funded on ATM is that how we should be thinking about it going forward? Yes.
We should but that’s also you’ve got to take into account the cash with that cash in the offering.
We actually overfunded that equity with the offering earlier this month Brendan.
But is that really the case - I mean if I look at your debt-to-EBITDA trailing I think it’s I don’t have the numbers right in front of me but I think in itself that’s like 8.2 times and I think your target debt plus preferred and I think your target 7.75 and if I look at debt plus preferred this is pro forma after the equity offering and then if I look at your debt plus preferred to GAV it’s $52 million and I think you target is some $50 million so I mean have you really over capitalized as you guys look at it or am I just missing something on those?  But I think we’re pretty much there.
We are.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Thanks Brendan.
We go to the line of James Sullivan from Cohen &amp; Company.
Thank you.
I have a couple of question on the development pipeline Denny one of the things that I found pretty impressive over the last six months is how rapidly that’s grown.
And so going back to the just kind of midyear 2012 and where you ended the year and what I’m focusing on is the page in the supplement that provides the in-service date by quarter.
And I suppose in industrial of course we’re used to that kind of product going up pretty quickly but not so much in Medical Office and so maybe you can just think a little bit about how rapidly you’re growing that Medical Office development pipeline? And whether all of these projects of project that Duke has developed from the ground up and by that I mean these are not projects that someone else maybe the user had started and you took them over or what but they’re coming from announcement to completion and service they’re coming fairly rapidly.
And also part two to that question you talked in your prepared comments about being very pleased with the backlog I think you specifically referred to your Medical Office Building and I am curious whether you think that’s - whether that backlog at this point this year how that compares with where it was a year ago.
So maybe if you could talk about to those points? Sure Jim.
Yes.
All those projects are projects that we started from the ground up.
And my comment on those would be substantially all of these projects are with healthcare systems where we have really a fairly long relationship.
You look at places like (inaudible) [Tri Health] that’s a group in Cincinnati where we’ve had long relationship.
Scott &amp; White is healthcare system in Central Texas that we’ve I think now done four or five projects with over the last roughly 12 to 18 months.
[Baylor] we done a number of projects with Baylor over the last five years primarily in the Dallas area market.
So of all those healthcare systems that we have these relationships with are really growing they’re very very solid healthcare systems they are highly rated they are growing as I mention there are also gearing up for this portable care act as it’s going to drive more folks into the system.
We’re also seeing a trend of more acuity type services going into the MOB facilities and that’s something they’re gearing up for.
So we’re seeing just a lot of growth in that area and those are all projects all those MOB projects are projects we’ve sourced directly with the healthcare institutions.
We’ve done the predevelopment services we’ve done the development services on the land and we’re in some cases we’re actually doing the construction in a lot of cases the healthcare systems have relationships with general contractors and we’re using their general contractor relationship folks to actually built them but again it’s a great business right now.
And then looking back I would say today the backlog is probably maybe a little bit higher than it was last year but again if you these projects tend to take longer than say an industrial project on a spec or build-to-suit basis either one and so we had a pretty strong pipeline at the beginning of last year when you think that we actually started almost $200 million worth of projects during 2012.
And I guess the follow-up question as you talked to potential requires obviously we know the product in the segments that you’re interested in selling and I’m sure that some of the folks you’re talking to would be interested maybe in buying some MOB assets as well and the MOB market has been fairly strong.
And I’m curious what your opinion is if you think back over the last 12 months is to how cap rates might have moved down for any particular segment in your portfolio how you would rank to movement in the cap rates for MOB some of that period?  Well I think I just make a couple of specific points on their one is I think the cap rates have been decreasing very significantly and relatively rapidly on the MOB product and in the MOB space in general and the reasons for that as I think people are now starting to understand that product type better and realize all the benefits including long-term leases very high credit very stable tenant base low lease expirations.
So I think that’s a trend that’s been going on probably for 2 or 4 years now those cap rates keep going down and down and down.
And then again just looking in our portfolio we’re really not trying to sell our Medical Office portfolio I would say we have a couple of isolated assets in there that we might move this year because they just don’t for whatever reason strategically fit-in with what we’re trying to do but generally speaking again we really like that product type we want it to be around 15% of our business right now as of today its about 15% to 16%.
We have opportunities to continue to grow that business as we grow our company and again I think it’s a great product type for us to own long term to provide very good stable and growing cash flow for our shareholders.
Okay.
Then finally from me in this respect the as you commented the business that has been done primarily so far has been very much relationship driven where you’re doing multiple projects for healthcare services and then practices that you’ve done business with before and I’m just curious geographically whether there is in your opinion also scope to grow this your portfolio into geographic markets where you really are less well represented in terms of MOB business.
The answer to that question is yes Jim.
And the first point I’d make on that is when we talked the last quarter about doing the Seavest acquisition in the MOB space that we did early in the fourth quarter one of the reasons of that was very attractive to us is it helped us begin relationships with some new hospital systems.
A Florida hospital in Florida we did not have a relationship there and we didn’t really have any MOB in Florida and no healthcare system which is in the basically in the Washington DC the mid-Atlantic region.
And that’s helped us start some relationships with those hospital systems.
And then one of the things we really haven’t done yet is look much in the Western half of the country for that piece of the business but with our abilities there I think going forward there will continue to be opportunities for us to expand geographically including west.
Okay.
Thank you.
Jim.
Thanks Jim.
We’ll go to the line of [Eric Franco] with Green Street Advisors.
Good afternoon.
I was just wondering could you go through disposition pipeline and just give a broad mix of what will be retail will be office?  Well again I think Brendan said it a little earlier I think if you look at our target disposition less its probably roughly 50% suburban in office and may be 30% the retail assets that we have left which again primarily consist of 3 assets and then a little bit as I said we’ve got a little bit of MOB probably 2 or 3 projects we may try to move this year and then we still have a little bit of that flex industrial space but not much of that as we continue to sell that.
So that’s really what the pipeline is and again in dollar perspective the MOB is probably in the 300 to 500 excuse me the suburban office is in the $300 million to $500 million range.
The retail is in the $250 million to $300 million range the Medical Office will certainly be below $100 million and I would say the Flex product price below $50 million.
Okay.
And is that a (inaudible) interest as well like is that gross number? Yes.
That’s a gross number.
Gross number okay.
And Denny I think you talked about last call which is about couple of move outs in your industrial portfolio including a Walmart warehouse in Savannah just wondering is that included in guidance that is maybe progressed in really some of those spaces? Well I’m glad you asked that Eric.
Actually yesterday we signed 500 000 square foot backfill of that 800 000 square feet come on down time with Walmart and in the new tenant moving in.
So we’re pretty excited about that and quite honestly we didn’t have all of that in our guidance but that’s not a -- in the overall scheme of the company it’s not that but what I would say that’s say as and as I said in the prepared remarks the industrial business is really pretty strong all over right now.
Great.
Congrats on that.
Just also curious on the development starts do you intend on purchasing additional land or most of the stock land bank or I guess some of your Medical Office projects? Well first of all I start on the MOB side we virtually acquired no land there.
95+% of those projects are on leased land that the hospital owns.
And then any other land there is just land that we acquire as we do the project.
So we don’t really care any land bank inventory for the MOB business.
On the rest of the development again virtually all of that will come out of our land bank that we have today we’re not acquiring any new land.
Occasionally on the build-to-suit industrial business we would also acquire a parcel of land that the building is starting on as immediately as we’re starting destruction.
Would it be difficult to venture a guess of how much you intend to monetize that (inaudible) in this year I think you said about $500 million in your developable land bank is that right? Yes.
That’s about right.
I would say this year we probably used $25 million to $40 million I would say roughly I would say probably in that range again this year somewhere between $25 million and $50 million.
Okay and then I guess just follow-up question on development how far are you away from spec development a lot of different markets are rents still pretty low or where ours or is it just not enough tenant demand to justify it? Well we started a couple of spec projects last year I guess three including the office building and that I mentioned.
We have a spec project under construction in Indianapolis 600 000 square feet we have the spec project out in [Chino] which is finishing up here shortly of 420 000 square feet.
I think you’ll probably see us start a few more spec projects and again on the industrial side this year but under a handful is what I would think.
Again demand is good our occupancy is good but the demand backlog has been good but I wouldn’t say again that’s a solid enough position that we will be thinking about starting any more spec buildings in that this year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
Next we’ll go to the line of Jamie Feldman with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch Thank you.
So I am looking at sequential occupancy growth in suburban office.
Can you talk a little bit more about where you are seeing some strengthen in that portfolio then your expectations? Well I would say if I am looking at the markets where I’ve seen some pretty considerable strength clearly Raleigh has been a very strong office market it continues to do well.
Indianapolis has done fairly well.
We have seen some big lease activity in what is not a very big portfolio that we have here but it’s doing well.
Activity we have signed a few leases in Cleveland and that in those handful of remaining buildings that we have.
We’ve seen some increase in activity in Cincinnati and in South Florida.
St Louis has a few larger prospects they are working on.
So I mean again that business isn’t booming Jamie but we’re starting to see a little bit more consistent leasing activity again around the system.
Again I am -- Houston is pretty much unbelievable on the office side right now.
I think there are like seven or eight spec office buildings going up down there now and proposed signing our lease this month I think those are in the 50% to 60% lease range now.
So and again I can’t really think of another market where we’re seeing any speculative office projects.
So and any other one I would say South Florida we’re starting to see some bigger interest from some of the tenants down there.
With you is there any -- characterize the kinds of tenants like are there certain sectors that are coming back to life maybe more housing related or is there anything where we are in the cycle you can point to? Jamie I would say no.
I think it’s fairly broad based I can’t think of any one sector that we’re starting to see a lot of activity in.
Clearly Raleigh is always driven a lot by tech and pharmaceutical and I can’t nothing is jumping out me that I would say is an industry that’s really growing.
Okay and then I am sorry if I missed it.
Did you guys give any expected yield on your acquisition activity? We did not but I think again we’re focused on the bulk industrial in the key distribution markets around the country.
So today on acquisitions if we’re doing some core acquisitions it’s probably 6.5 to 7.25 maybe.
If we’re doing some value add like the one we did in Chicago its probably 7.5 to 8.
So that’s really where we are looking for these yields to fall this year and again that’s an in place yield.
I thought [Clove] was lower.
Depends on what markets you go to.
It’s clearly lower in Southern California today but you haven’t really seen as buy much there since towards the beginning of last year we didn’t really do a whole lot in Southern California in the second half of the year because it’s gotten very expensive.
But I think the core properties again in markets outside Southern California but still core distribution markets are in that range.
Okay.
And then of the $300 million to $500 million range how much of that you think will be core versus value add? Well it’s a little hard to say because generally the value add are probably going to be more one-off buildings.
Core could be not large portfolios but portfolio so I think it will probably be 50-50 or maybe 60-40 core to value add this year.
Just to give you a little perspective Jamie since fourth quarter of ‘09 we have moved or we’ve invested in and what’s better than core and value add I’d call it over 90% leased and under 90% leased.
We have invested over $1 billion and a billion and some change in 90% leased or higher and we’ve invested $1.4 billion at less than 90%.
So I think some of these numbers are pretty good and I wonder further out there because we get a lot of commentary around gee with why don’t you guys do a little bit more on the lease up side and I just think it’s important to remind ourselves that we’ve actually done a lot of investment as it relates to less than 90% and really driven the performance in those investments as well as on top of the development that we have.
Okay.
So just to make sure you said $1 billion is 90% or higher and $1.4 billion is 90% or is lower than 90%.
That’s correct.
Okay.
Then finally just thinking on medical office and healthcare in general what are your basic thoughts just on I mean there is a lot of discussion about Medicare reimbursement risks or public pay.
How are you guys thinking about just the changes and the potential cost structure changes as you guys are putting money to work in that sector.
Well again this has I would say relatively little effect on the portfolio that we own if any because this is all healthcare systems that for the most part are private pay.
Now that doesn’t mean that there are some Medicare reimbursements from patients that are in those hospitals and are being served by the doctors in those facilities but again it’s just not a very significant piece of the kind of business we are doing.
So we don’t have any concerns about any changes there at all.
If you underwrite their credit with some lower revenue in the future or not really or you think it’s not even that significant? It’s not even as significant but I am telling you the credit we are getting in these MOB’s is unbelievable.
I mean we are getting generally above A rated credit on all of our leases because the trend that’s happening now Jamie is the hospital systems themselves are buying these physician practices and they are putting them in their MOB’s on their campus and the hospitals are actually on the leases themselves.
So we are getting better and better credit in those facilities too.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Just want to go back to Brandon’s question.
Is the ATM issuance needed to fund the pipeline you betted in the guidance at this point or is it not? We are substantially done Michael.
I mean you know to the extent that we issue on the ATM.
I mean you’ll see us do that very selectively.
We overfunded on the equity offering.
We are driving cash from operations and were net disposition activity based on our plans.
So… Okay.
So the balance is expected to be funded with net disposition proceeds and available cash? Potentially yes that’s correct.
Okay.
You gave expectations for the overall portfolio.
Can you give kind of same store expectations for the industrial portfolio in ‘13 kind of your thoughts in terms of rent rules as well as kind of the occupancy target for year end? Well I think you know we had very nice same property NOI growth in the industrial portfolio in 2012 at 3.1% which I think was very strong which included - again some of that was from some average occupancy increase and some of that was from the increase in rental rates.
Obviously at 94.6% leased at the end of the year I think in the industrial portfolio there is going to less improvement in NOI growth from occupancy pickup but we do have some good rental rate growth and now embedded in that portfolio particularly on acquisitions as we have done more and more of the markets we operate in have annual rent bumps in the industrial leases.
So I think you will see that the NOI growth on the industrial business fee in the probably 1% to 1.5% range this year and then a little bit more of that growth coming from the suburban office just as we anticipate some occupancy increases and from the strong MOB portfolio which will again come from a little bit of occupancy improvement.
Some of our acquisitions had some vacancies in them.
Some of our I would say a little bit older developments had some vacancy that we are getting leased up and then those leases all have very strong rental rate growth built into it.
Hopeful of the $400 million to $600 million that you expect to sell how much of that is currently on the market and you have $150 million under contract and how much of that would be on the $150 million that’s under contract how much of that would you expect to be kind of portfolio sales versus kind of one off transaction? It’s always a little hard to define what’s on the market.
I mean a lot of people know what we are trying to sell so we get we are in discussions with a lot people that on selling some of those assets it may not necessarily directly be marketed through a broker.
So a fair amount of that is already out there on the market.
I would say on the retail side those three centers we have will probably be one off transactions just because of their geographic location.
The suburban office sales will probably be a combination of single asset sales and smaller portfolios more two three four assets rather than I don’t anticipate this year seeing a bigger portfolio transaction occur.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
As we think about the mix between development and acquisition what spread do you need between let’s say a speculative property versus - a speculative construction versus an acquisition as well as a build-to-suit versus an acquisition today just given the 7.25 that your pipeline is currently going at? Well I would say today probably there is not a whole lot of difference between the build-to-suit and the acquisition yields today in this market to be honest with you.
In previous cycles there was probably more but today it’s maybe 25 to 50 basis points.
Then I would say between acquisition yields and spec development it’s probably 150 to 200 basis point spread before we are willing to take that lease up risk today.
That’s across the MOB sector as well as the suburban office sector as well? Yeah.
But we’re two things on MOB.
First of all as we said we are really not looking for acquisitions there.
We did the one larger one last year to again because it was very strategic for us and then we are really focused more on the development side there and any more there is very little speculative space in that MOB stuff that we are developing.
It’s for the last you know I would say year and half it has been almost all substantially preleased.
That would characterize you come by that kind of 20 to 30 basis point spread you talked about for build-to-suit.
Am I looking at that correctly? Yeah.
But I guess I would clarify that that I think our yields on the development even the build-to-suit development on the MOB side are probably more in the 120 to 150 basis point spread above acquisition yields today.
And we are good at that.
That’s from me guys.
Thank you.
Thanks Michael.
And our next question comes from [Thom Tupelo] with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi the equity issuance obviously you guys came a long way in getting towards your balances sheet goals that you outlined in that strategic plan and assuming that you do achieve the kind of the growth in the portfolio you’ve laid out and you do accomplish all those goals.
Do you think these goals are still appropriate since you laid them out all of your competitors had a delevered even further.
And even there’s new balance sheet goals that still seem a little out of (inaudible) versus your peers a little too wide so just some commentary on whether or not you think it’s still appropriate there? I think what I had mentioned in the remarks is that we’re substantially of the way there as it relates to the capital strategy goals that we set out in the ‘09 time period and we’re going to continue to work at - even further strengthening our balance sheet while maintaining substantial liquidity.
So we’re going to keep at it and we’ve made a lot of great progress as you know.
Sure.
And our next question comes from Dave Rogers with Baird.
Please go ahead.
Hey Denny you mentioned you were positive on both industrial and office and then at least your outlook in your view how much of the activity that you’ve seen if you can [handy camp] it would be kind of reconfiguration trading up or actually net growth in the market? I would say let’s start with the industrial business.
But I think more of it is net growth to date than we’ve probably been seeing over the last 3 or four years but clearly when you look at the overall industrial statistics Dave.
For the last really two and a half to three years it’s been positive net absorption here so it’s net growth.
I would say there’s a little less consolidation than we saw inactivity of probably two or three years ago although there’s still some of that going on.
So I think mostly it’s net growth.
Again on the office side today I would tell you it’s mostly net growth also.
These are tenants that are whatever reason are their business is good getting better and so they need space to grow.
There’s still some consolidation going on there that we try to be a beneficiary of with our product but we’re starting to see some true net growth in the office sector too.
Thanks.
And maybe just focusing on industrial then real quickly it sound like you expect to see some positive rents spreads for the year but are you surprised that you haven’t seen more positive moves in market rent growth and do you expect to see more of the market rent growth in the course of the next 12 months? Well I think we’ll see some Dave.
One of the issues it’s still in the industrial businesses is the low interest rates are keeping the cap rates really low.
And so that could pressure on the rental rate growth but now as you’re starting to see a lot of these markets get up into the mid-90%s percent leased overall and again still fairly limited spec development.
And they’re starting to be some nice upward pressure on rental rates which is great.
You are starting to see that okay.
And then how much development do you think you can handle with your current G&amp;A load before you want add some personnel? I think we can easily wherever we are today and probably if you think we start at $520 million last year I think easily another $100 million to a little bit more.
You know and some of it depends on the mix as I mentioned earlier a fair amount of our healthcare related development is built by outside contractors but bottom line is you’re not going to see us adding any overhead because I just don’t think.
We’re not inclined to grow that development pipeline you know a whole lot more than the $500 million to $600 million.
And that’s pretty good that’s a pretty good annual pace.
And to that point Dave remember sort of back in the ‘09 time period we really sized our business to that $500 million to $600 million development pipeline that Denny’s talking about.
Two points you know one; we want to manage the development pipeline and risk profile appropriately in relation to our total growth assets to make sure that we are performing above our ratings as it relates to Moody’s and S&amp;P.
The second thing too is that as it relates to spec as a piece of development within there we’re also managing that such that the speculative developments that we take on is also appropriately managed.
So that it doesn’t take away from the overall strong performance of our company in terms of occupancy and total dollars if you will at risk from a spec perspective.
Okay.
I don’t know if there’s a fair question but I’ll ask it anyway how much better would the balance sheet need to be if the build-to-suit pipeline became a more speculative oriented pipeline? Would that change your view on where leverage and coverage metrics were? No.
No it wouldn’t.
I mean a couple of the things as it relates to leverage.
If you guys look at sort of the leverage at debt plus preferred less than 50% as well as driving our coverage ratios below 7.75 and above 2 fixed charge coverage we’ve made substantial progress in that regard and you know the rating agencies are pleased with our progress and we’re going to continue to drive that EBITDA particularly given the strong performance at the investments that we’ve made today together with the strength of our development pipeline.
So no it would not.
And leverage to part of that just from a total market cap perspective will also come into play are multiple further improves.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
You bet.
(Operator Instructions) And there are no further questions in queue.
Thank you everybody.
I’d like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
We look forward to seeing many of you during the year at various industry conferences as well as getting you out towards some of our regional markets.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Duke Realty First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be an opportunity for questions and answers with instructions given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Ron Hubbard.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Allan.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and CEO; Christie Kelly Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mark Denien Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2012 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments during the first quarter in both our operational and asset strategies.
Christie will then address our first quarter financial performance and the progress on our capital strategy.
We followed up the positive momentum from 2012 and are off to a great start for 2013 on all fronts.
We signed 6.3 million square feet of leases in the first quarter and finished the first quarter at a 91.8% overall occupancy rate which includes projects under development.
We started $139 million of new development projects comprised of $40 million of bulk industrial $59 million of medical office and $40 million suburban office project.
Six of our seven new development starts are 100% a pre-leased while one project is a speculative start on our land in Houston which has strong fundamentals.
I’ll touch on the developments in a little more detail shortly.
We continue to make progress on our asset repositioning strategy during the quarter with $223 million of proceeds generated from dispositions of primarily suburban office property as well as $30 million of acquisitions.
On the capital front we’ve raised over $820 million of equity and debt that was used for deleveraging and prefunding our May debt maturities.
The redemption of the $170 million 8.375% preferred O shares together with the $250 million unsecured debt offering issued in an effective interest rate of 3.72% will save the company nearly $22 million in annual interest and dividend cost on an ongoing basis.
Christie will speak more in depth on our capital activities in a moment.
From a macroeconomic perspective the economy appears on track for another slow year of economic growth with current GDP expectations between 2% and 3% range.
Even with modest growth the demand drivers in the industrial sector remains solid with first quarter net absorption of 32 million square feet on a national basis following up on the fourth quarter of 2012 at 55 million square feet which was the highest quarter in five years.
This positive activity continues across most major distribution markets with nearly 80% of the top markets recording vacancy drops the most widespread improvement in a decade.
The Class A national vacancy is now in the 9% range.
The tightening of key industrial market fundamentals together with trends in e-commerce and supply chain modernization should go very well for value creation opportunities from our strategic land bank and best in class development platform.
The healthcare industry trends that are driving strong demand for new modern design outpatient space remained very strong.
Our team continues to be selected as one of the premier new facility providers to leading health systems across the country with a steady pipeline of deals.
The suburban office sector continues to be sluggish in most markets though there are pockets where absorption is improving.
The office market fundamental still favored the tenant in TIs and concession remains above the long term averages.
Even so the availability of debt at historically low rates has increased investor appetite for suburban office transaction which gives us optimism in executing our office disposition plans for this year.
Turning to operations we had a solid quarter of leasing at 6.3 million square feet.
We ended the quarter with overall occupancy at 91.8%.
Occupancy dropped approximately 60 basis points from the end of the year and a couple of factors led to this decrease.
First the sale of Captrust Tower and Chambers Street portfolio which we discussed in January and disclosed in the presentation we posted on our website in March were approximately 98% occupied on combined basis.
Second we had a few larger industrial leases expire right at the end of the quarter as anticipated in our annual average in service occupancy guidance.
Activity remains strong and we anticipate occupancy to head back up in the second quarter.
These larger explorations also abnormally push down our tenant retention for the quarter to 49%.
However I’m pleased to note that few of these vacancies created by the expiring leases were immediately backfilled and pipeline of prospects for the remaining vacant spaces is strong.
Specifically two large explorations total 1.2 million square feet yet two new leases were signed with different tenants who immediately backfill approximately 901 000 square feet of that space.
Rental rate growth and renewals continue to be positive in most markets at a little under 2% overall across the portfolio with the trend line from last year continuing to move upward.
With respect to same property performance we achieved positive same property NOI growth for the 12 months and three months ended March 31 of 2.4% and 2.6% respectively.
We expect the pace of same property growth moderate over the next few quarters given the expected slower pace of occupancy gains and modest rental rate growth that’s anticipated.
Now let me touch on some of the key activity with any of these product types for the quarter.
With respect to leasing in our industrial portfolio we do continue to see fundamentals improved with the completion of nearly 3.1 million square feet of new industrial leases and about 2 million square feet of renewal leases.
Both industrial in-service occupancy at the end of the quarter dipped to 93.6% roughly 90 basis points below the previous quarter and at a steady level compare to a year ago.
As noted we have some larger anticipated lease expirations in our industrial portfolio but strong leasing backfill the number of those.
Some of our larger lease deals include a 7 400 square foot expansion in renewal lease across two facilities for Netrada in Cincinnati; a 437 000 square foot lease with a major retailer in Groveport Commerce Center in Columbus and a 500 000 square foot lease with Home Depot in Savannah.
In the medical office portfolio we had a solid quarter with nearly 250 000 square feet of new and renewal leases signed.
The office leasing environment continues to be challenging across most markets but we did have a solid quarter of leasing with nearly 1.1 million square feet of new and renewal leases signed.
In our Sam Houston Crossing speculative office project in Houston we have now signed two leases which bring the lease percentage to 91% for this project that will open later this year.
We had $223 million of dispositions during the quarter.
Most of the proceeds came from the sale of our interest in two suburban office joint ventures which we mentioned in January.
We also sold a couple of non-strategic medical facilities in a small flex portfolio.
Our only acquisitions during the quarter were medical office building in Tampa which we bought from an existing customer and our partner’s 50% interest in a fully leased industrial building in Indianapolis.
Yesterday we announced two significant and strategically important transactions that are now under contract for.
First we’re selling our Pembroke Gardens Retail Center in South Florida in accordance with our strategy to dispose of our remaining retail assets.
This project is in a great location on Interstate 75 in West Broward County and has performed extremely well.
Interest in this center was high and the sales price will be $188 million or $480 per square foot.
This sale will result in a significant gain that we reported in the second quarter and we expect the sale to close next week.
The second transaction we announced is the acquisition of the bulk industrial portfolio from affiliates of USA Real Estate which has recently been reported by others outside of Duke Realty.
This $311 million acquisition include eight modern bulk industrial facilities over 4.8 million square feet in key distribution markets including California Eastern Pennsylvania and Houston.
The portfolio is 100% leased to major retail tenants such as Home Depot Kimberly-Clark and Jo-Ann stores.
We expect this transaction to close in May.
These two transactions will put us even closer to our asset allocation goal of 60% bulk industrial 25% suburban office and 15% medical office.
We will report cap rate ranges on these transactions in our second quarter numbers but let me say that in-place cap rate on our retail sale is over 100 basis points lower than the yield we’ll receive on our industrial acquisition so this is a great trade for us.
We also had an excellent quarter on new development starts the starts include seven projects again with an estimated total project of about $140 million.
We started a 680 000 square foot build-to-suit bulk industrial facility in Nashville on our Park 100 plan or Park 840 land – excuse me.
The facility will be 100% leased to Starbucks for seven-and-half years.
We also started a 240 000 square foot spec industrial development in Houston on our Point North land which is located in the airport submarket where vacancy is in the 5% range.
We also began a 200 000 square foot office built-to-suit in Dallas also in our land at Duke Bridges Corporate Park.
The project is 100% preleased to a healthcare services firm for a term of 16 years.
Finally we started to develop four build-to-suit 100% preleased medical facilities during the quarter.
Three of the facilities are with affiliates of Baylor Health Care totaling 113 000 square feet with lease terms of 15 years.
I’m proud to say that we’ve now engaged in 10 development deals with Baylor Health Care since 2009.
The final healthcare development was a 35 000 square foot project in Waco Texas with Scott &amp; White Healthcare.
This is our fourth development project with Scott &amp; White.
Overall our first quarter development starts with 81% preleased and are projected to have a stabilized yield of 8.0%.
We’re extremely pleased with the new development business generated year-to-date again our best-in-class development platform.
Our total development pipeline as of March 31 now stands at 5.1 million square feet totaling $621 million of stabilized cost.
We are projecting a weighted average yield over the initial lease term of 8.2% on these projects.
The development pipeline and strategic land bank are key growth driver for Duke Realty and we’re optimistic about being able to execute on additional build-to-suit and select respective development opportunities.
I’ll now turn the call over to Christie to discuss our financial results and capital plans.
Thanks Denny.
And good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I would like to provide an update on our first quarter financial performance as well as the progress on our capital strategy.
Our first quarter Core FFO was $0.26 per share compared to $0.27 per share for the fourth quarter of 2012.
The slightly lower Core FFO was a result of temporary dilution due to not being immediately able to utilize the proceeds from our previously discussed 41.4 million share equity offering executed in early January.
Core FFO for the first quarter of 2013 in comparison to 2012 of $0.24 represents an 8.3% positive year-over-year growth rate that was primarily attributable to improved occupancy and same-property performance as well as due to lower preferred dividends.
We generated $0.23 per share in AFFO in the first quarter of 2013 which translates to a payout ratio of less than 74% compared to $0.21 per share in AFFO for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Taking a look at AFFO for the first quarter of 2013 in comparison to $0.20 from the first quarter of 2012 represents a 15% positive year-over-year growth rate.
Again that was primarily attributable to improved occupancy and same-property performance as well as due to lower preferred dividends.
As Denny mentioned our leasing volume for the quarter was strong.
And in summary our operating results for the quarter were outstanding and we look forward to continued solid results throughout the rest of the year.
Turning to the capital side of our business we executed significant transactions during the quarter to build our track record of generating low cost capital from multiple sources.
As we discussed last January we generated $572 million in proceeds from our $41.4 million share following equity offering.
We used a portion of these proceeds to redeem our 8.375% Series M preferred shares which we would use our dividend commitments by nearly $15 million annually on an ongoing basis.
We enjoyed a successful quarter in terms of generating capital from asset dispositions receiving $223 million in proceeds from asset sales.
In order to pre fund our May unsecured debt maturity we opportunistically capped the unsecured market in mid March.
We issued $250 million of tenured bond and an effective interest rate of 3.72% a record low rate for Duke Realty.
After being used to refinance a portion of our May maturities this lower rate offering will save us nearly $7 million annually on an ongoing basis.
As a result of our capital raising activities we ended the first quarter with $307 million in cash which when coupled with an unsecured term loan we will close at the beginning of May will leave us with more than sufficient liquidity for the repayment of our $425 million of unsecured debt due this mid May.
Additionally the post quarter activity that Denny mentioned represented by the expected USAA acquisition and Pembroke disposition is an excellent example of us funding acquisitions with dispositions accretive.
I will conclude by saying that I’m extremely pleased with the results for the quarter and we will continue to execute on all aspects of our strategy.
And with that I’ll turn it back over Dennis.
Thank you Christie.
Yesterday we also reaffirmed our guidance of FFO for 2013 of $1.03 to $1.11 per share.
In closing after a solid quarter we believe our value creation story is gaining momentum as our operations continue to show strong occupancy and modest rent growth.
Our capital raising continues to be highly efficient and consistent with our delever leveraging plans.
Our asset repositioning is in the process of taking another big leap with the first quarter close dispositions and the pending Pembroke in U.S.A.
transactions which we believe are very accretive to our net asset value.
Finally the development platform engine and strategic land bank are also very well positioned to take advantage of solid growth opportunities for 2013 and beyond.
Thank you again for your support of Duke Realty and now we will open it up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll first go to the line of Brendan Maiorana.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Dennis you guys on the development pipeline the yields seem like they’re getting better at the same time you sort of look at the overall environment and cap rates are coming down.
It seems like they’re would be more likely to be pressure on development yields as opposed to development yields moving up.
So are there something specific that’s going on with the development or are there any improvement dollars that are getting amortized that are driving yields up? Or you’re just getting better economics? Generally I think we are getting better economics right now and it’s really it doesn’t have anything to do with the amortization when you look at those projects that we talked about this quarter for sure and I would say it’s a couple of things going on.
One obviously about 50% roughly 45% 50% of our starts this quarter were in the healthcare area.
Again a very significantly driven business driven on relationships and so we have great relationships as I mentioned with Baylor and Scott &amp; White.
So clearly I think that our development yields are pretty competitive but it’s also relationship driven and I think that was part of it.
When you look at the build-to-suit opportunities we have on the office side yields are little higher because we’re deploying our land and I would say the same with the industrial build-to-suits that we’re accomplishing today.
So I think that’s another key driver as the very good basis that we have in a lot of our lands.
So suffice to say I agree with your comments Brendan and I think we’re creating a lot of value through that development pipeline right now.
Okay.
And then the occupancy drop in the quarter I guess just listening to your comments it sounds like that happened at the end of the quarter.
So I guess there probably wasn’t an impact if I’m taking about that correctly there probably wasn’t an impact on NOI in the quarter.
But as we look out over the next few quarters for the year how do you think occupancy trends? Because I guess as it stands now you’re at sort of the low end of your average occupancy target for 2013.
Yes.
I would say there’s two things.
Yes there were a couple things that happened during the quarter.
We had some expirations during the quarter mid-quarter let’s say that we’re pretty much immediately backfilled with tenants.
But then we had a couple leases near the end of the quarter that expired but it didn’t have a significant impact on first quarter NOI.
Unfortunately we have to report on four specific days of the year.
It’s the way we report.
So our occupancies always gone up and down a little bit but we are sort of at the low point at the end of the first quarter which is kind of where we thought we’d be.
So we do have as I’ve said there’s a lot of good activity out there I think particularly on the industrial side business is still strong.
So I think you’ll see – again see that occupancy continue to tick up throughout the rest of the year.
And we’ve looked at it pretty closely and we’re still very comfortable with that occupancy range guidance that we gave for an average occupancy for the year which was in the 92% to 94% range.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just the last I have is for Christie.
I was looking at your same-store in the disclosure on page 21 in the supplemental.
Am I reading it correctly that there’s 180 basis point improvement in occupancy in the portfolio in the Q1 2013 versus Q1 2012? Yes you are Brendon.
So I guess was just trying to reconcile that with last year’s occupancy numbers because I thought that they were – I didn’t think the occupancy moved around that much and even with the adjustment in the pool that that would have happened.
It didn’t seem like there is a whole lot of movement.
Is there something else going on there that maybe we don’t see as we’re thinking about the same-store pool last year versus this year? No nothing.
We’re just chatting quickly here amongst ourselves Brendan and there’s nothing really of note.
Okay.
I mean – okay maybe we can take that offline because yes I’m just having trouble looking at last year’s numbers and see whether there would be that much adjustment.
Sure.
We can talk offline again.
Okay all right.
Thanks.
No worries.
So next we’ll go to the line of Dave Rodgers.
Please go ahead.
Yes good afternoon.
I guess with regard to the development pipeline Denny you talked $620 million under construction today a pretty good yield.
Where do you see that going throughout the year and I guess as you’re tie in to that we’ve seen especially on the industrial side more and more spec construction I guess which you under took a little bit this quarter.
So I guess talk about where you see the overall pipeline going this year and how spec will play into that.
Sure Dave.
I think you’re going to see that pipeline likely stay at a pretty stable level that $500 million to $700 million range.
We monitor that pretty closely and actually don’t want to get that up too high as a percent of our overall asset base.
However I think the other thing strategically that you’ve seen from us is almost – I mean a very significant portion of our development now is 100% pre-lease project.
So we’re so going to obviously try to finance many of those kind of accretive transactions as we can do.
We’ve really been fairly limited on spec of the development far in this point in the cycle we’ve really started four projects in the last I would say I guess it’s been about 9 months 9 to 12 months.
We started the one office building I mentioned in Houston which is now 91% leased and will open up in July.
We started now three spec industrial buildings one in Indianapolis one in California and now just started one in Houston and those total about 1.25 million square feet.
We have no leases signed in those yet.
We’ve got a couple of proposals out on the California project.
We’ve on and off have some activity on the Indianapolis project and then actually have some pretty good activity on the Houston project even though we’re just really getting started and breaking ground on that one.
So I think you’re going to see us still be fairly conservative on the spec development side.
You might have seen other project or two before the end of the year but some of that is really going to depend too on how we do on leasing up some of those projects we’ve already started.
So that’s really I think where we are what we’re looking at through the development side.
Thanks.
And then maybe for Christie just in terms of it seems like the appetite for office asset is up in terms of your ability to sell maybe talk about where some of the funding will come from throughout the course of the year if you can relate it to the asset sales program? Sure Dave.
As it relates to the guidance in terms of office dispositions we’re a net disposer.
this year as you look at the midpoint of the guidance.
And we’re on track to deliver as it relates those dispositions and our focus for this year is on as you stated Midwest office as well as retail as demonstrated by the Pembroke disposition.
Yes just to add to that if you look at our office disposition so far it’s the two bigger projects in Raleigh and then the Chambers Street portfolio those were obviously really funded with mostly with institutional equity I would say.
Some debt potentially but most of it was equity and looking at some of the dispositions that we plan on the office side this year I’d think what we’re likely to see again is secured debt funding mortgage debt my guess is you’re not – it won’t be consist of CMBS much because they’re going to probably smaller portfolios but I think we’ve seen both the banks and the insurance companies fairly active in that market right now.
Yes to the point that Denny’s making I mean that really is a change that we’ve seen over the past year and 18 months.
And so I guess should I take from those comments that if LTBs are generally higher than they had been and rates are lower that the 7.75 wherever you were in this quarter for the office asset sales if fairly achievable for the remainder of the year? Well I think it’s just depends on what the mix ends up being.
Those were I would say probably on the lower end of the cap rates scale but I think you’ll probably again see most of our office dispositions in that low to mid 8 kind of cap rate range on again on in-place income.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thanks Dave.
We have a question in queue from the line Josh Attie.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Dennis in your prepared remarks you mentioned that industrial fundamentals seem to be getting better but for your portfolio same-store growth is going to moderate over the next two quarters.
And I understand that some of your industrial properties are probably approaching high occupancy levels but why would rent growth slow? And I guess what are some of the items do you expect to weigh on the same-store? Well I think when you look at the overall portfolio I’m just talking industrial we’ve been running at a pretty high occupancy level when you look at that.
We’ve grew almost to 95%.
We dropped down a little bit under 94% at the end of this quarter because of the couple of lease expirations.
So I think at this point in the economy and with the type of GDP growth we’re looking at this year that portfolio is probably the best we’re going to get as probably 95% 96% right now.
I think when you look at it I think we will see modest rent growth across most of our industrial markets.
But remember a couple things I would say one is we’ve only got I think 7% lease expirations of our overall portfolio for the rest of the year.
So we’re not going to see tremendous growth out of that portfolio from rental increases on leases rolling.
And then second we have solid growth in the industrial business because most of our leases today now and most of our markets have annual rent bumps.
So those rent bumps were anywhere from probably 1.75% to 3% annual rent bumps.
So those will be helping to drive our continued same-property performance as long as we hold up where our occupancy points are anticipated.
Thanks.
That makes sense.
And could you just tie that back to guidance? II know the guidance are based on a same-store growth range of 1% to 4% and you did 2.5% in the first quarter.
So it’s going to moderate from there.
Should we assume that both the same-store and the FFO guidance trend toward the lower end of the range? No I don’t think so.
I mean I think we’re going to be sort of in the middle of that range.
I would tell you what drives that number unfortunately more than others is just harder to predict is the dispositions.
That’s why we always have to give a wider range then maybe we would like because we just don’t know which of our same properties were going to sell during the year.
So that can have an affect depending on which properties you should sell.
But sitting here today looking at what we sold so far and what we anticipate selling and then what we anticipate happening in the remaining portfolio I think towards the middle of that range is a good number for this year.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Josh.
Thanks Josh.
We’ll next go to the line of Vincent Chao.
Please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Just a quick question.
Dennis you’d alluded to the Chino project earlier in terms of some people kicking the tires.
I was just wondering if you expand upon what kind of activity you’re seeing there types of users and maybe what’s causing them or preventing them from pulling trigger on taking some space there.
Well I think first a guy pointed out is we just really finished that up early this year probably in February sometimes.
So it’s relatively still fresh on the market.
Again there’s been good activity in the Southern California market.
We’ve seen a fair amount of leasing.
I think if you look at the leasing statistics out there for the first quarter some very good activity is what you’ll see.
It just depends in that situation.
We’re likely going to lease that building to a single user in my opinion.
That’s a 420 000 square foot building which is kind of a sweet spot for a distributor so it’s just finding that right tenant.
We’ve talked to a couple of retailers about it.
We’ve actually talked to a governmental agency about leasing the whole thing also.
So I think it’s fairly broad user base out there and we’re very focused on getting that one leased up.
Okay.
And at this point is it relative you’re underwriting for that project? Are you still on track or is it may be slipping a little bit in terms of timing? No it’s not slipping.
Not slipping okay.
And then maybe if I could just ask a similar question just in terms of Atlanta overall I mean obviously that’s a tougher market but can you provide some color on what you’re seeing there? It looks like one of the late quarter move-outs might have been from that market on the industrial side.
It was.
We had about a 300 000 square foot tenant leave right near the end of the quarter in one of the buildings which was really most of the decrease in occupancy in Atlanta this quarter.
I guess overall my comment on Atlanta would be that market has been relatively slow and I think slower than some of the other industrial markets so far.
When you think back on it just about a year ago we signed million square foot lease up at our Braselton project with Carter’s for their e-commerce distribution and that was a big deal obviously for us there.
Since then it’s been a little bit slow but in talking to our folks in Atlanta they’re starting to feel like things could pick up here pretty shortly and things could get better in the second and third quarter.
A lot more people come out in the market beginning to talk about leasing some space here soon.
So I think we anticipate that occupancy improving in the second half of this year.
But clearly it has been slower than some of the other markets.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll go to the line of Eric Frankel for his question.
Thank you.
I would like to discuss given the repositioning plan here long-term thoughts for some of office to suit.
You guys are working where do you think the eventual home where those properties are? I think it depends.
When you think about a couple I mean the two the bigger ones that we worked are is Primerica build to suit in Atlanta which we just completed on time and they’ve now moved in and are extremely happy with the facility.
And on that one I would say that’s on land that we own in our legacy park up in Gwinnett County.
We’ve got room for a couple more buildings there.
We’ve actually had other – some other discussions there on possible build to suit.
So I think it’s probably likely we might hold that one for a little while as we build potentially build out the rest of that park.
As you may recall that was a 15-year lease with them so we’ve got obviously plenty of time on the lease.
I think there’s nice annual rent bumps in that one also.
And then the other one we signed our Duke Bridges Park up in Frisco in Dallas 200 000 square foot project on a 16-year lease.
We’ve got two more sites available in that park and then this tenant actually has an expansion option on to a site next door for I think its 18 or 24 months out.
And so I think once we complete that I think you’ll likely see us pull that one at least through the time that they have the expansion option.
So I think it’s going to be a case-by-case basis Eric.
They are all they’re really good projects but as you know we’re downsizing the office business and the truth is in Atlanta and Dallas for example both of those were a part of our Blackstone transaction so we sold substantially all of our other assets in those market other some other ones a couple we had in other joint ventures.
But these build-to-suit office buildings don’t require they’re not really that hard to manage because it’s a single tenant.
So I just think it’s not probably not answering your question but I think it’s just going to be a case-by-case basis.
Okay.
I do appreciate the color.
Also I’m just curious about the medical office portfolio and what do you think the occupancy trajectory can be in the next couple of years? It just seem to be stay kind of flat over the last few quarters? Well I think yes it has and some of that was because we were some of our development we were developing with some vacancy in it.
And so most of what we signed here recently has been a 100% lease so that’s not contributing to that vacancy obviously.
But I think the leasing activity is pretty good.
We bought a little bit of vacancy when we bought the Seavest portfolio last year and we’re actually I think it looks like we’re going to be ahead of schedule on leasing up some of that space so my thoughts today would be you’re going to see that occupancy probably start moving closer to the 94% 95% and likely stay in that area for a while.
Great thank you.
And then one final question just given your thoughts on market rent and growth trajectory just want to get a feel for what you think the mark-to-market rent is for your portfolio? Well people asked us that quite a bit.
It’s again a little bit hard to say because we’ve got so many different markets and submarkets and kind of buildings.
But in general today where we are in the cycle and when you look at when we sign leases that are beginning to roll now I would say our rents in place were probably a little bit below market.
And I’m saying maybe 5% to 7% below market today and what’s in place.
But again it’s going to vary market and sub – by market and sub market a little bit.
Great thank you.
Appreciate it.
Bye Eric.
Pardon me we have a question in the queue from the line of Scott O’Donnell go ahead.
Yes hi good afternoon.
A question for Christie the last two debt offerings you did were 3.875 and 3.625 I can’t for the life of me figure out why you’d be turning to the bank term loan market right now with the markets very efficient from a funding perspective? Yes Scott.
Thanks for that question.
I mean I think when we take a look at the term loan there a couple of things.
First we’re looking at a five-year term loan.
We’re looking at doing floating rate paper and it’s very accretive based on our yield curve right now and we really don’t have any floating rate debt to speak of whatsoever in our capital strikes.
So when you take a look at A yes what we’ve been able to execute and B threading in a nice little five-year for 2018 maturity they go up 15 really nicely with our maturity ladder at very attractive rates it makes sense for us to do.
So there will be no swapping of that deal and no capping of the deal? No.
There won’t be any swapping of the deals at the get go I mean to the extent that we need to fix it.
We’ll take care of that as we see rates move.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
We have a question in queue from the line of Michael Salinsky.
Go ahead please.
Good afternoon guys.
Just to go back to the following question.
You talked about spreads I think you said up 2%.
What occupancy level do you get a bit more comfortable pushing that a little more? I think again it always comes back to me to what the demand is.
Even when our occupancy is here at 95% 98% which when you look at a number of our industrial markets today we’re there.
Still not necessarily a big pressure to raise rates until that demand really starts picking up.
So I think we’re going to have to see some more of that demand picking up.
And occupancy is good but it’s not like we have a huge backlog of tenants wanting new space that’s why you’re still seeing relatively limited spec development in most markets.
So I think we’re going to – we’ll start seeing at as we start seeing a little bit more demand pickup.
Okay that’s helpful.
Just going back to your original capital plans for the year.
I mean do the shares about 25% year-to-date and also...
I’m sorry.
I think we...
Hello? Did we lose you? Mr.
Salinsky’s line is still connected.
Mr.
Salinsky could you check your phone for mute feature.
Can you hear me? Yes sorry.
Now we can.
Okay.
Sorry about that.
Just going back to with the share price of 25% year-to-date and also just given the success you guys have had on disposition front relative to the development yield the 8% that you quoted there is there any thoughts maybe accelerating the development starts for the year and maybe recycling a bit more or going out in maybe being a bit more aggressive on the leverage – on reducing leverage? Well I guess let me start in the development side.
I mean I think we’re doing all the prudent development today that we think is out there.
In other words we focus on the build-to-suit market.
Going back to my comments on spec and so as I said I think we’re not really afraid to do really good build-to-suit yields on both the MOB and the industrial side and an occasional office one to the extend there may be on our land.
So we’ll keep pushing those as much as we can.
And then on the disposition side I think we’ve got a fairly significant disposition plan for the year and we’ve executed – we had a great first quarter and now with the Pembroke sale looking to close here in – before the end of the month.
That’s a pretty good four-month start at almost $400 million.
So one of the things I you will see as do is sort of look through the portfolio a little more carefully as we’re going and take advantage of some – potentially take advantage some opportunities where we think we’ve created a fair amount of value and then move some of those properties if the timing is right especially timing for reinvestment.
We think we can have use of the proceeds either to reinvest in new development or to de-lever as we have debt maturities coming up.
I think we’ll probably look at that but I wouldn’t say we have anything specific in mind right now.
Okay.
So no changes with the investment plan obviously early in the year? No I don’t think so.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Bill.
And we have a follow-up question from the line of Brendan Maiorana.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
So Denny just to sort of follow-up a little bit on the disposition outlook and we’ve talked about this a bit in the past but you’ve got a nice MOB franchise as we sort of think about it but it doesn’t fit that neatly into your portfolio mix.
At the same time pricing for MOB assets seems in an all time high.
There’s seems to a lot of interest in the space.
Is there a way to sort of harvest some of that value via a JV or some form like that where you don’t have to give up the upside that you seem to be creating a lot on the development pipeline but you can maybe harvest some of the value that’s been created on the developments that have been done thus far and it would be a way to sort of accelerate the deleveraging that you’d expect to do over the next few years? Well I would first respond to that by saying I think it does fit in fairly nicely and neatly within our portfolio because again it’s a very stable product type very really good same property growth as you can see from the performance of that portfolio over the last year and the last few quarters it’s really doing well.
So when a property type is performing that well I think it fits in to my strategy so and obviously we have the platform in place to do the development and continue to grow that business.
But having said that I think there is an opportunity there we’ve been building portfolio on the development side now for about six to seven years and as we look back through that portfolio there is probably a couple of properties that are in there that we developed early in that cycle that might make less sense for us strategically than they did back then.
So I think you’ll see us really look – keep a close eye on that portfolio you might see a few assets move here or there.
But again I think you’re going to continue to see us grow that portfolio.
Just in the light of that we sold two buildings out of our MOB portfolio this quarter.
And those were actually two buildings that we got in the Seavest transaction that we knew when we bought them weren’t really strategic for us.
They were located in truly non-core market they have good tenancy and long term leases and they were probably 25 to 30 year old buildings.
So we move I would say fairly rapidly to go ahead and relist those properties and sold them at a little bit over what we had allocated to that.
So it was a good deal for us and again they didn’t fit strategically.
So I think you’ll see us continue to look at that.
Okay.
So if I hear your comments correctly on the MOB portfolio does that suggest that this is – as you think about the business long term several years out this is the part of the portfolio that stays within the business as you sort of see it into the future? Yes.
I think we’ve stated that I think our asset strategy that we’ve been talking about here our original target for that was about 15%.
We’re kind of right there maybe even a little bit higher than that because of some of the bigger transactions we did but I think you’re going to see that portfolio stay in that range and I think overall as we look for opportunities to grow the company overall then I think you will continue to see that MOB portfolio grow but stay in that kind of a range of percentage of the overall company 15% to 20%.
Sure okay.
And then the flip side of that is sort of looking at acquisitions or the flip side of my question I guess would be looking at acquisitions.
Do you think – as we look at this USAA deal a large portfolio deal stabilized.
So you think when you look at growth of the company from here given that you’re pretty darn close to the 60 50 and 25 portfolio breakdown allocation that large portfolio deals are still likely to happen for Duke or do you think you’re largely done with that and most of the growth comes via development and kind of one-off deals? I think it depends.
First of all I would say that I think growth definitely will come through new development.
Build-to-suit industrial deals some speculative industrial building and pretty much on land that we owned because we can do – I don’t know I think it’s $40 million square feet of industrial roughly on our – the land that we own today.
So you’re going to see us continuing to grow there.
I think you probably will see us do some one-off acquisitions in key target markets which we’ve been doing.
Again just kind of depends we’ve looked at a whole lot more and seen a whole lot more transactions than we’ve actually executed on when we look at it over the last two or three years.
As far as the portfolio of yields go again I think it depends.
There is where we have a great presence in most of the major distribution markets in the country now but there is a couple where we’d still like continuing to grow and if we saw a portfolio transaction that we thought would really help us grow in a certain area of the country or a certain of those markets that we don’t – we feel like we’re underweighted then I think we would certainly consider that.
And again just looking at the USAA portfolio very I mean strategically for us a very good transaction because a significant piece of it in California Northeast Houston where those are locations that we’re trying to build our portfolio so that worked very well for us.
Sure and then last one.
The cap rate spread differentially.
If you talked about between the USA deal and Pembroke deal is that – was that both cash and GAAP 100 basis point spread or was it just one or the other? Cash Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Brendan.
Thanks Brendan.
We have a follow up question from the line of Josh Attie please go ahead.
Yes it’s Michael Bilerman good afternoon.
Hey Michael.
Just a question on the USAA portfolio I guess the brokerage community is sort of painting it as a portfolio premium very rich pricing I guess how do you respond to that and maybe you can talk about how you sort of look at pricing for that portfolio? Sure I would say that was a competitively bid process there so I would say there was a number of other competitors on that portfolio so I think it was truly market pricing.
I don’t know that I would agree that there’s a portfolio premium to it.
I mean it’s sort of is what it is and they’re all really good projects.
When you look at it I think our basis if you look at that is going to be just around $65 a foot overall for that portfolio.
We do a lot of looking at replacement cost and I think we really believe we bought that portfolio right in the range of replacement cost and again all very good markets very very good buildings.
So I’m not saying it wasn’t a market deal I think it was a market deal but I think it was a good fair deal for us.
We’re very comfortable with the pricing on it and our basis and so that’s about all I can say great property.
And where does that work out I guess on a initial it’s 100% lease so where – I guess where are rents sort of relative to market and what is that initial yield that you’re buying at? Well I would say rents are really right about market and most of those buildings what we think market is today.
I think the average remaining term on those leases is probably six or seven years and again all of them have annual rental rate bumps.
I would say the rental bumps are in the neighborhood of 1.5% to 2% – 2% or 3% I guess.
That’s right.
And I’d said we typically don’t disclose yields on specific transactions Michael just because of competitive nature.
So it will be disclosed in our second quarter numbers along with our other acquisitions.
But I also would like to say I think it’s pretty – the numbers I’ve seen our there are probably in the range.
Okay.
And then just – I just wanted to come back to sort of the guidance just to really understand the moving pieces because it sounds like the acquisition or our shift position activity I guess when you look at the retail sale and some of the office buildings to Chamber Street that could be maybe even accretive or neutral relative to the acquisition volumes that you’re doing and it sounds like going floating rate debt would be accretive.
And so are we – to take it that operations a little bit behind for the guidance not to move? No.
I don’t think so.
I think our operations are really pretty much in line so far this year with where we anticipate them to be.
You know Mike because you know I’m not going to move our guidance in the first quarter.
I mean we said a fairly broad range and usually we’ve tightened it up the last couple of years a little bit.
But we’ve got a lot of moving pieces and parts as we go through this disposition and essential acquisition and development.
So there’s just a lot of moving pieces and parts in the numbers so I’m just never inclined to really try to change this early in the year unless something major would happen that we knew had a significant effect.
So we’ll obviously look again at the end of the next quarter and think about where we are and see how the year is progressing and every quarter we reconsider that annual guidance.
And if we think it’s appropriate to change it we’ll do that but right now I think operations are actually probably just a little bit ahead of where we thought they’d be.
Okay.
And through that point Michael we highlighted not only the year-over-year growth the FFO and AFFO but we’ve done that on the back.
So moving significant dispositions as well as delivering so when you take a look at the fundamental operation and the leasing momentum it’s been very strong.
So I would absolutely agree with Denny that we’re actually a little bit ahead of where we thought we were going to be.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Michael.
We also have a follow up question from the line of Michael Salinsky.
Go ahead please.
Thank you.
Just to go back to dispositions since you sold both portfolio and one-offs.
Any noticeable difference between portfolio pricing versus one-off sale? No.
I don’t think so each disposition each transaction has its own story so it’s a little hard to say.
But I think for that specific question Mike the difference between single assets or portfolios not really.
Okay.
Then the question taking I think the bulk on this report a little bit looking at some of the smaller block space have you seen any change in demand as we see in the single family house in the market pick up over the last couple of quarters and how much opportunity do you see there in terms of driving towards your occupancy targets for 2013? Yes.
I think clearly you’re starting to hear a lot of chatter about that in various conferences.
We’ve seen it in some of the other industrial folks as public discussions or releases.
I think it’s true.
We’re seeing some of that and again it varies a little bit from market-to-market.
I would say clearly in South Florida which that whole economy there is driven by a lot of development and construction is a fairly big part about that – of that economy down there and that market is coming back particularly I would say on the multi-family or the condominium market in South Florida is really coming back.
So we’re starting to see some of those types of tenants come back into the market and I think we’ll continue to see that my sense is throughout the rest of this year as the economy improves and housing markets continues to pick up.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Speakers we have no further questions in queue at this time.
I’d like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at the NAREIT Conference in June in little over a month or if not we’ll reconvene during our second quarter call tentatively scheduled for August 1.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T’s Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Duke Realty Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a questions-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Ron Hubbard Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Mark Denien Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2012 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments during the quarter in both our operational and asset strategies.
Mark will then address our second quarter financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
Then I finish up with our prepared remarks with some comments about our outlook for the remainder of 2013.
By all accounts the second quarter was a great success for Duke Realty and I’m very proud of our team for their accomplishments.
We signed 6.2 million square feet of leased and finished the quarter at 93.1% overall occupancy rate which includes projects under development.
This is the highest overall occupancy rate for the company since 1996.
We had only 25 million square feet of properties.
We also acquired 5.9 million square feet of modern bulk industrial product and key distribution markets including 405 million at an initial cash yield of 6.3% with nice future annual rent bumps resulting in a GAAP yield of 6.7%.
We essentially funded these acquisitions from cash on our balance sheet at the beginning of the quarter and from executing $202 million of dispositions during the quarter.
These dispositions had an in place cap rate of 5% and thus the acquisitions are immediately accredited to FFO and AFFO in alignment with our asset repositioning strategy.
Also during the quarter we begin $82 million of new development projects with a weighted average stabilized cash yield of 8.2%.
I’ll talk more about these investment transaction shortly.
On the capital front we repaid $425 million of maturing unsecured notes a portion of which was funded with the new $250 million floating rate term loan matures in 2018.
We also issued $1.5million shares of common equity through our ATM program during the quarter raising proceeds of $27.4 million.
Mark will speak more in depth on our capital activities in a moment.
From a macro perspective half way through the year the economy is limping along in a one plus percent growth rate lower than the beginning of the year expectations.
The lack of subjective job growth continues to present challenges for the real estate industry.
These factors are key contributors to our cautious outlook towards spec development.
While the amount of spec stays relative to total inventories maybe low compared to historic levels other than in a couple of markets we’re not seeing significant dimensions or that new space.
Looking at the rest of the year current forecast call for improvements in GDP near the 2.5% level for the second half of the year.
This would obviously be a positive for real estate fundamentals.
We’ll also make a quick comment on interest rates given what has transpired with fed and in the capital markets recently while we believe there are rest and certainly volatility related to the fed tampering over the immediate term.
We don’t view the most recent range of long-term rates as being adverse to growth and demand for our space or in our ability to generate new development starts.
Despite this sluggish economic growth our leasing operations performed very well across our entire portfolio this quarter.
While we did expect an increase in occupancy over our prior quarter levels the 130 basis point increase was a bit better than expected.
The positive absorption was fairly broad based across all product types end markets that give full credited to our talented and D teams in each of our markets for the success on their performance.
Now let me touch on some of the key activity within each product type.
On industrial the preliminary indications from costar for the second quarter is at national net absorption maintained its strong pace in the first quarter with projections of about 35 million square feet driving vacancy rates down to the low to mid 8% range.
We are seeing solid leasing demand as well as new build-to-suit development opportunities across our industrial markets.
We continue to see activity on the build-to-suit for us and slower economic growth for its tenants time to carefully plan ahead for space modernization or expansion needs.
With respect to leasing in our industrial portfolio the fundamentals remain solid with the completion of nearly 1.9 million square feet of new and about 2.7 million square of renewal leases.
Bulk industrial in service occupancy at the end of the quarter rose to 94.4% 80 basis points above the previous quarter and also 80 basis points higher than a year ago.
Nine of our 18 major markets are now at least 95% leased on the industrial side and only three are under 90%.
Three in the medical office portfolio beyond campus medical office business remains robust which bodes well for our portfolio we had a solid quarter with new lease of 260 000 square feet of new and renewal leases signed growing our in-service occupancy by 180 basis points to 92.7%.
Development opportunities are also strong which I will touch on a little later.
Now I’ll talk a little bit about our suburban office business generally speaking this product type has been challenging and probably will be until we see more meaningful job growth.
Having said that we’ve actually seen some markets with quite a bit of activity more significant Houston Raleigh South Florida and our Midwest markets.
Overall we had a nice quarter on the suburban office leasing side as well executing nearly 1.3 million square feet of new and renewal leases.
In the Midwest we signed five leases that were each 3 000 square feet or large that’s the best quarter of activity for office leases of this size in the Midwest in several years.
We also had significant new leasing totaling a 186 000 square feet in Raleigh related to pre-leasing of a recently announced speculative development project that I’ll speak about in a moment.
Overall we increased our in-service suburban office occupancy by 200 basis points to 86.5%.
We also made excellent progress on our asset strategy during the quarter as we announced on last quarter’s call and as disclosed at a recent investor presentations in late May we closed on the acquisition of 4.9 million square foot USA and eight industrial portfolio for $315 million.
The portfolio includes eight 100% leased amount of bulk industrial facilities in key distribution markets including California Eastern Pennsylvania and Houston.
We’re extremely pleased with the strategic split and extremely high quality of this portfolio.
We also acquired two bulk industrial facilities totaling 950 000 square feet in central New Jersey these two facilities were developed in the last 10 years and located just off I-95 equal distance between Philadelphia and New York both facilities are 100% leased to Crate and Barrel until 2020.
Last year you only acquired a 123 000 square foot industrial building in Southern California in the Mid-County submarket facility is currently 100% leased with the entire space rolling later this year we now expect rental facility to be above our original pro forma when the tenant rolls.
Let me also point out a couple of other things on our industrial acquisition strategy.
I know that some of you have questioned our acquisition of 100% leased facilities in the value creation opportunities.
Since we began our asset repositioning strategy back in 2009 our acquisitions and dispositions have been roughly equal at just under $3 billion each.
Other than our South Florida acquisition we’ve been mostly focused on larger distribution buildings 500 000 square feet plus in major distribution markets.
We focused on larger bulk buildings because we feel that as a future of the bulk distribution business in major market.
When these larger bulk buildings trade they are almost all leased 100% leased you just don’t see 500 000 square foot plus buildings trade at 50% or 75% lease.
We would gladly consider buying those if available so if you see any let us know.
These assets also had nice annual rental rate increases which contributes the solid store and AFFO growth in future years.
Our value creation has also come from over $1 billion of new development starts over that same period and we continue to find more great value creation opportunities through development.
As for dispositions we had an excellent quarter generating $202 million of proceed that were used as a source of capital to fund the aforementioned acquisitions a $188 million of the proceeds came from the closing of our previously announced disposition of Pembroke Pines retail center in South Florida which was 90% leased and sold at a 5% in place cap rate.
These repositioning transactions put us just a few percentage points away from our bulk industrial investment target of 60%.
Furthermore the acquisition transactions were essentially funded from year-to-date dispositions and/or accretive to our cash flow both short and long-term.
We also have a number of other assets are being marketed for sale including a 2.3 million square foot suburban office portfolio located in Cincinnati Cleveland and St.
Louis.
We’re in the final stages of evaluating offers we’ve received on this portfolio and believe we’re likely to close on multiple transactions totaling over $250 million in the third quarter and fourth quarter of this year.
Now I would like to touch this a little bit on our land bank if you remember a few years ago we went through a thorough process to differentiate each land parcel between parcels of the one at development and parcels that were non-strategic to be sold.
These parcels that were identified for disposition started at a basis of about $230 million after impairment charges.
Today we still have about $145 million of this non-strategic land our books that’s impaired basis a few of these disposition parcels were reclassified to our to be developed land but mostly reduction is from sales over the last 3.5 years.
I would like to point out that in the aggregate these sales transactions produce a positive margin from the book basis.
I would also like to report that in July we sold a 30 acre parcel of office land in Northern Virginia for $22.2 million.
This parcel was actually in our to be developed plan but we received an unsolicited offer and we liked the pricing and believe it would be sometime before we would develop this parcel given the suburban office conditions in this market.
This sale and increased interest in land from purchasers let us to increase our guidance from landers position yesterday to a range of $40 million to $50 million.
In addition of this parcel momentum on land sales we also have utilized about $40 million of land bank over the last year or so for our development projects.
Overall we feel confident on our ability to monetize our current land bank through development and dispositions add values in excess of our current book basis.
Now turning to development I’m pleased to report that our development starts year-to-date are off to another strong start a testament to what we believe as a strategically located land bank investing class development team.
In total we began $82 million in new projects during the second quarter bringing our year-to-date total starts to $221 million.
We started a 206 000 square suburban office project in Raleigh located in our land and parameter in our parameter part development.
The project was approved at a 52% pre-lease level and I’m pleased to announce the just after quarter and our Raleigh team signed another lease in the building totaling about 78 000 square feet which increases the pre-leasing level to 91%.
We also started three new medical office projects during the quarter; we started two new projects with Baylor Health Care totaling 54 000 square feet in the Dallas area both the 100% pre-lease for 15 years.
These are the 11<sup>th</sup> and 12<sup>th</sup> projects we’ve done with Baylor in the last seven years and demonstration of our outstanding execution track record in exceptional relationships will talk to your health systems.
The third medical project is a 60 000 square feet and located in Missouri also 100% pre-leased for 15 years to a joint venture between Centerre Health and Mercy Health.
Our second quarter development starts are 93% pre-lease when you include July leasing and are projected to have a stabilized cash yields of 8.2% and a GAAP yield of 9.3%.
As of the second quarter we have 3.3 million square feet across 18 projects under construction that are 90% pre-leased in the aggregate with the total budgeted cost of 513 million at a projected GAAP yield of 8.4%.
Overall we’re extremely pleased with the new development business generated year-to-date and based on the pipeline of prospects a very optimistic about future development starts for the remainder of the year.
I’ll now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our financial results and capital plan.
Thanks Denny.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I would like to provide an update on our second quarter financial performance as well as the progress on the capital strategy.
Our second quarter 2013 core FFO was $0.27 per share.
The $0.01 improvement in the core FFO per share from the first quarter was mainly driven by an increase and an in service non occupancy of 107 basis points an improved operating performance throughout our entire portfolio.
I would like to highlight that we’ve recorded income from lease buyouts of approximately $3.8 million this quarter which is just slightly higher than our normal run rate.
This increase was due to a couple of opportunistic office transactions where we had tenants looking to downsize an immediate landfills were available for their space allowing us to collect some fees and retain our occupancy levels.
Our growths in average net effective rent on renewals was about 2% for the quarter.
We are starting if we able to push rents a little in those markets especially on the industrial side.
I would also point out that we did experienced positive rental rate growth on our suburban office renewals this quarter as well as that market is improving somewhat as indicated by the leasing activity Denny mentioned.
With respect to same property performance we achieved positive NOI growth through the 12 months and 3 months ended June 30 of 2.7% and 3.4% respectively due to increased occupancy and increases in the rental rates.
At the beginning of the year we provided guidance on same property NOI growth on a 12 months – over 12 month basis of 1% to 4%.
With our success thus far and expectations for further improvements we now believe that our same property NOI growth for the year will be towards the upper end of our guidance.
We generated $0.24 per share in AFFO which equates to a conservative dividend payout ratio of slightly below 71% compared to $0.23 per share of AFFO for the first quarter of 2013.
The improvement in AFFO was driven by the same factors as core FFO as second generation capital expenditures were consistent between the periods.
We continued to be pleased with our growth in the AFFO on a consistent basis which validates our asset repositioning strategy.
We’re pleased with our operating results for the quarter and anticipate continued solid execution throughout the rest of the year.
Turning to the capital side of our business we executed transactions during the quarter that reduced our borrowing cost and diversified our resources of capital.
In May we executed a $250 million variable rate term loan with our credit facility lending group that bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.35% and matures in May 2018.
This term loan may be prepaid at any time with no penalty which allows us flexibility in managing our debt maturities over the next five years.
We used the proceeds from this term loan to partially fund the mandatory of unsecured notes totaling $425 million which had a weighted average effective interest rate of 6.4%.
In May we also executed a new ATM program that allows for the issuance of up to $300 million of common stock.
During the quarter when considering issuances under the new program as well as the completion of our previous $200 million ATM program we issued approximately 1.5 million shares of common stock generating over $27 million of net proceeds at an average price of $18.33 per share.
As we have said we will continue to look to the ATM program as a source of capital that partially fund future development activity.
As Denny mentioned we’ve generated $202 million of proceeds from non-strategic assets dispositions during the quarter driven mainly by the $188 million on proceeds from the disposition of the Pembroke Gardens Retail Center.
Although acquisition activity outpaced dispositions during the quarter when looking at the entire first six months of 2013 proceeds from dispositions have essential funded acquisitions.
Our liquidity is very solid when considering we completed the quarter with only $88 million in borrowings outstanding on our $850 million line of credit and our debt maturities for the remainder of the year totaled only about $82 million.
In fact we don’t really have any debt maturities of significance in for august of 2014 when we have $215 million of unsecured notes maturing.
As indicated in our guidance we anticipate being a net disclosure of properties for the remainder of the year which will allows us to repay our current line balance and partially fund development costs.
We also achieved improvements on our leverage metrics during the second quarter with a fixed charge coverage ratio of $1.92 for the rolling 12 months ended June 30 compared to $1.86 for the rolling 12 months ended March 31 looking at just the second quarter which gives the full effect of our deleveraging efforts so far this year our fixed charge coverage ratio is 2.1 net debt to EBITDA and net debt plus preferred to EBITDA for the rolling 12 months ended June 30 2013 was 7.57% and 8.35% which is a slight increase in the prior quarter.
This increase was due to the timing of acquisitions and dispositions.
We’re looking at just the second quarter adjustments for the timing of these dispositions and acquisitions net debt to EBITDA is 6.64% and net debt plus preferred to EBITDA is 7.32% which were accurately depicts our improving leverage profile.
I would also like to point out that these leverage coverage metrics will continue to improve simply by completing our projects that are currently under construction because that pipeline is 90% leased and the balance sheet already a reflex most of the costs without the benefit of the earnings.
I will conclude by saying that I’m very pleased with the operating results for the second quarter and the condition of our balance sheet which allows us flexibility to execute on other aspects of our strategy.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks mark.
Yesterday we tightened our guidance for core FFO to $1.07 to a $1.11 per share which raised the midpoint by $0.02 to $1.09 per share.
This change is the recognition of the effective execution of our asset in capital strategy our positive leasing activity so far this year and our overall operational performance year-to-date and a positive outlook for the remainder of the year.
We also have a strong backlog of new development projects that we believe we can execute during the second half of the year.
Even with the moderate economic growth we are successfully executing our 2013 plan and are confident Duke Realty is in a solid position to capture market share continued steady rent growth and execute on accretive development opportunities across all of our markets.
Thank you again for your support of Duke Realty.
And now we’ll open it up for questions  (Operator Instructions).
Our first question today is from the line of (Paul) (indiscernible).
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Denny I was wondering if you could fill us in on plans with respect to the medical office portfolio specifically are there certain assets that you might look to dispose off in the near future.
Yes Paul but I think we are taking a look at that I think there is small relatively speaking small portfolio of assets that we will look to print.
We’ve been in that business now when you go back to including when we start at the joint venture with (Tim Brenner) and his company for almost nine years now.
And so we’ve got some assets that are little bit older in that portfolio and also I would say we’ve got some assets that are less strategic to us today than may be they were when we developed most of these back in that 8 to 9 years ago.
And by less strategic there with hospital systems that may be we’re not we don’t see a lot of future business with.
So we’re taking a look at that and I think you could see us market a portfolio here sometime and start marketing here sometime in the third quarter.
Okay great.
And could you give us the range of cap rates that you see in the market both for top quality and lower quality medical office assets? Yeah we really haven’t been buying much since – when build I think it’s all since last fall when we tend to see that transaction I would say so we haven’t I may not be as close because we haven’t follow that quite as close because we’re really focused on the development side in that business.
But I would say you’re probably seeing cap rates in low-to-mid 6s on the very high quality portfolio may even lower than that I suppose depending on the situation and that will be the length of term remain term under lease the rental the percentage rental increases in the lease and those types of things but it’s probably in the sort of in the low 6s and the good quality portfolios today.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
We have a question from Josh Attie.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Denny on the guidance increase I know that there are a lot of things that contributed to it.
Can you just kind of give some sense for how much of it was same-store performance versus your expectation as oppose to asset sale timing termination fees and also the term loan which I don’t know if that was in your original outlook or not? Yeah Josh almost all of it really is from just higher occupancy for the year.
We always factor into our guidance some base level of lease termination fees and while it might have appeared to be a little bit higher this quarter.
It was just for the year its right in line with where we thought it would be and again on our refinancing that we were assuming this year I think the interest rates are right about where we thought they would be overall.
So I think again most of it is really coming just from increased occupancy and probably a little bit better rent growth on some of the renewals that we thought that we might have this year.
Yeah Josh I would add that keep in mind that the occupancy number if we reported on our lease signing basis.
So the substantive increase in occupancy that we had this quarter some of that won’t really materialized in the rent growth until the third quarter.
So we still in a positive in the third and fourth quarter from some of the leasing that you’ve seen the starts right now.
Okay.
Thanks that makes sense more of a leased percentage than an occupancy number.
Correct correct.
Yeah.
Okay and secondly on the acquisitions in the quarter if we strip out USAA it seems like you bought Southern California and New Jersey with around of 5.5 cap blended and $85 million of first blended I guess two questions.
One there is numbers right and then also can you tell us what each of those were individually are on a cap rate basis? Well Josh we’ve historically not given cap rates by individual transaction just for various competitive reasons and I think it just sort of sets at all when you look at what we acquired which was primarily I guess really entirely this quarter 100% leased industrial property and the average cap rate was what we disclosed was six in a quarter.
So I really don’t have much to say about it other than that I think we did very well on those acquisitions.
I’m very pleased with the where we came out I no way think that we paid anything above market on those acquisition.
So I think we’re just very pleased.
Okay.
And then just lastly and I’m not sure if you can comment on this or not because I know you are closed to transaction but on the Midwest office portfolio is there any sense you can give us on pricing? Well Josh I’d rather not be there today because as you said we are serving negotiations here.
So obviously we’ll see what happens over in the next 90 to 120 days and then we’ll disclose everything when we finally close this.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Question from (Jamie) (indiscernible).
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
You had mentioned you are seeing some rent growth in your bulk industrial markets.
Can you talk a little bit about the pace of market rents like where do you think your year-over-year and maybe what you’re expecting going forward? Yeah Jamie again I think we seen I would look back more over sort of a 12 to 24 month period and over the last 12 24 months as market occupancies have increased I certainly think and almost all markets we seen greater we see rent growth in the industrial side kind of depends where but we are probably 15% up are at the bottom of where rents work and today again I think we are still we are still seeing some positive pressure I call it on rent.
So I think we’re going to see some more increases but I think our increases going forward are going to be more in the 2% to 4% kind of annual range and again some of that’s going to depend on a little bit what happens with interest rates and obviously on the industrial side what happens with spec development.
Okay.
And the acquisition as you mentioned where is the annual rent bumps I think you said a six seven GAAP yield and six in a quarter cash? Yeah I think those the annual rents in most of those are anywhere between 1.5% and 2.5% and almost of all these industrial leases today and almost all markets we have we had the bumps like that and that was acquisitions are the same.
Okay.
And then I don’t know if I heard you clearly before but I think you have made a comment about concerns about new development in your market and rest absorption but you may have heard that wrong? What I said was what we are seeing now is their spec development certainly has come back in the last 12 months.
There is more spec development in almost all markets then there has had them for three or four years.
I say it still probably fairly significantly below on a historic run rate and still a relatively small percentage of the existing stock but I’ll also what I also said was we are not seeing that space get absorbed very quickly right now.
So I think we’ll see over the next few months how the demand is and whether it kicks up and whether that space starts getting absorbed because other than a couple of markets that space is a kind of sitting there right now.
Okay.
Very helpful so which market would you say and is it maybe the space is too modern for the market once like how why would you why you think that’s happening? No I think this is just what we been saying really for the last year Jamie as we just haven’t we haven’t seen we seen the demand it take existing space but we have been comfortable with the demand was there to absorb a lot of newly developed space.
And other than a couple of markets which I would say Houston in particular I would say and maybe a little bit in South Florida we haven’t seen a lot of demand to just absorb all that space it’s been build right now.
So hopefully I would also say that typically early part of third quarter late second quarter and early part of third quarter would summer vacations and things is typically a little bit slower time for industrial.
So I think post labor day this quarter to see how things pick up.
We’ll be interesting to see if more that space starts getting absorbed.
What would you say the worst markets for that the ones that cause you the most concerned? Well I would say clearly Southern California has a lot of speculative space out there.
I would say Chicago has quite a bit of speculative space and we've seen some in the kind of the Pennsylvania markets there has been a fair amount of speculative space out there and even maybe Dallas a little bit a number of spec buildings going out there that haven’t been absorbed yet.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then my final question is for the term loans that floating very long correct? Correct.
So is that you have any plans to fix it or how are you thinking about the risk of raising rates here? No plans right now Jamie if you think about it back when we did this in early May.
We probably could have got a two low two on a five year fix maybe two in a quarter 2.3 right now that’s five year rates risen called 50 60 basis points but the fact is was the floating we have we haven’t lost anything I mean we are still at the same labor plus 135 and labor hasn’t moved and the short-term rates were still in our favor right now.
That’s really the only floating rate that we have out there which is less than 5% of our total debt.
So we are pretty comfortable with that.
Okay.
And then I guess just finally the Denny you talked about potential growth in the development pipeline as we roll into 2014 how big is your kind of list the conversations of what you could do because it starts to equal to ‘13 maybe even higher? Yeah I think Jamie we did about five a little more 500 million of new development starts last year.
We are at sort of that $212 million level for the first half of this year.
Right now I would say that I think we can continue to maintain that space we really think there is a good there is a good backlog.
So today I would tell you sort of the net $450 million to $500 million on an annual basis is a good run rate for us.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You have a question from Dave Rodgers.
Please go ahead.
Yeah Denny maybe just follow-up on that question.
In terms of the development pipeline in that $450 million or $500 million at start of the year.
How is that breaking down between property taxes at least as you see it today kind of what’s in the pipeline you done a little more office but I think some people expected that you’ve had good success there.
So maybe just a recap on where you’re going.
Yeah I think that’s right Dave.
I think generally speaking I would tell you that that would be roughly 50% MOB and 50% industrial but it’s very – it’s been very interesting because we’ve had some opportunities to do some office development.
So I think and it’s really been driven by our existing land positions obviously as well as demand in the market.
And one thing I didn’t mention in the prepared remarks that building we started about a year ago in Houston opened up and it’s now 100% leased mentioned in the one in Raleigh that’s 30% leased.
So again looking forward I would say maybe 40% to 45% MOB 40% to 45% industrial and 10% to 15% office as far as the starts go.
Great thanks.
Then you talked also which I think very early in your comments that you didn’t think that the rising rates would impact really the tenant demand for space they get let met talk about how you handicapped the risk associated with underwriting those assets is that really a spot decision and you just kind of move forward in that point of time? Yeah I think that’s more of a spot decision we obviously look at transactions individually when they come through and look at what’s going on in the market our cost of capital and those type of things when we make those decisions.
I don’t know if you said that where you in the running for the portfolio that I guess received recently from your big competitors did you get bit on that? No if I could it’s – what I’m thinking you’re talking about no.
Okay okay.
So any particular reasons for you not to be involved in that? Well let’s just make sure we’re talking about… I’m sorry in the capital transaction.
Yeah that’s just really not our process to product type that we’re looking for.
Okay.
If you look at that that’s I think those the average size of the building international transactions in the 125 000 130 000 square foot range.
And as I mentioned in our remarks we’d really been focused mostly on those about 500 000 square foot buildings.
And you think better rent growth in the bigger spaces versus a smaller spaces as a result of kind of your activity there? I wouldn’t say – I think the demand is going to be better in the larger spaces over the long term I really think that’s the way the business is evolving.
And I don’t see a big difference in rent growth between larger spaces and smaller spaces going forward.
Okay.
And then lastly maybe just for Mark.
I know previously the company had wanted to leave those preferreds that are out there just over 6.5 I think $500 million or so.
Have you had any change in thinking about what you might want to do with the outstanding preferreds that are callable? Yeah not at this time Dave.
I think we’re still pretty comfortable with where we are there.
Dave Rodgers – Robert W Baird Great.
Thank you.
Question from Bin Kim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Couple of quick follow-up questions.
The Midwest portfolio that you’re looking to slow I understand I guess too much because I have given that suppose here but mainly you can put some quality parameters around that.
What the rent per square foot look like on that group of assets? I’m thinking about your keeping because I don’t have that number in front of me but I don’t know for sure but I’m going to make a guess that it’s probably in the 13 to 15 bucks net range on that portfolio it’s kind of very quiet a bit because little different sub markets and things like that and different cities.
So the stuff in St.
Louis is going to have a higher net rental rates than the stuff in Cincinnati and Cleveland so it varies a little bit but on average that would be my guess.
Okay.
And on the Cabot transaction just want to see your take on.
Did you look at that portfolio couple of years ago? Yeah there was – I don’t know what’s what to be honest with you but there was a Cabot marketed a portfolio couple of years ago that wasn’t as big as what Liberty bought but it was – I’m not going to say I don’t know 12 million 14 million square feet.
We didn’t really look at it we did build on it because once again it just wasn’t the type of product that we’re really looking for.
Okay.
And just last question I guess thanks for – maybe bring some more color on your acquisition strategy.
And given that they are 100% leased assets this quarter for 400 million of acquisitions.
Whatever you – I think it’s changed here underwriting strategy at all for the rising rates it’s actually because if they’re 100% leased assets with ten year leased terms go after it’s very bond like and with half year cost of fund this company going off that side I would think where you have a somewhat material impact on your exit values and I was wondering if you got and totally have changed your hurdle rats at all especially for 40 day side acquisitions.
Yeah my answer that would be yeah I’d say they can probably have most of those acquisitions that we closed this quarter closed before we saw the spike in interest rate.
So what – you just really I think you have to look at the – well is it at the kind of asset is it the quality of asset is it the location of asset you have the kind of tendency that you want and cap rates can be a little bit fluid because as we see interest rates just if you look at the tenure probably moved a 100 basis points and in 60 days now.
So you can’t just base your acquisition on where interest rates are at a particular time we’re looking on most of it almost all the acquisitions we’ve done it been really funded this disposition process.
So we sort of time that unfortunate to be able to time that very well and we feel like we’re getting good cap rates on the dispositions and we’re getting what we believe are good long-term assets on the acquisitions.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
We have a question from Brendan Maiorana.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Denny I don’t want to cast this in a negative light but if I take your comments your occupancy which is I think is the highest it’s ever been or at sort of peak levels.
And you’ve got development that is increasing in your markets but it’s difficult for developers to find out for those properties.
Does that make you concerned at all that there it could be downward pressure on occupancy as you look at over the next 6 12 months or so? No not really I don’t think there is going to be necessarily downward pressure on our occupancy one of the things that we pay a lot of attention to Brendan is our lease expiration schedule and try to keep that balance.
So we never have in any one year more than 10% 11% rolling.
And you’re going to hit some ups and downs in the markets as those things roll.
Again I’m just saying Brendan this is really I believe what we’ve been saying for the last year or so we’ve been very cautious and expect development because we’re just waiting to see the demand that’s really going to absorb that space.
As we said in our prepared remarks almost all of our markets today our portfolios on the industrial side are over 95% so that’s excellent.
And we see enough demand that that’s going to hold up I’m just – I won’t say I’m terribly nervous I’m just this is why we’re pointing out over the last year or so we got to see the demand is going to take that new space off the market.
Yeah no I can appreciate that I mean it seems like you’re doing a very good job leasing up – very good leasing quarter and your overall occupancy it seems like it’s pretty high it seems like that’s moving in the right direction but then you’re saying that you didn’t see sort of as much demand at the core levels so.
The – this is probably for Mark what was the impairment on in the quarter? The impairment related to the landfill transaction Denny mentioned that are actually closed in July Brendan it was a parcel land like Denny mentioned it we had actually planned on developing.
We got an unsolicited offer and sold this.
So it had not been previously impaired it was at its original book basis and it was related to that.
Yeah so I guess the land impairment is call it 15% it’s a $3.7 million and $23 million but how you kind of reconcile that Mark on the land with the earlier comments that as you kind of look at the land that you are holding for development.
Do you think you are going to be able to put that into motion at values that are above what the current basis is give like you just sold a property at land that you felt like you had a good price on for 15% below book? Well I think Brendan you got to you really got to look at it parcel by parcel.
Two things that we said one was we impaired a fairly significant portfolio gone four years ago now and what we said is we’ve sold anything we’ve sold a lot of that portfolio we’ve sold at a profit from that impaired basis.
And as I recall we impaired that basis above of 30% 35% roughly back then and we’ve sold a little bit above that.
So probably a 5% margin on that impaired basis on average.
And then we’ve not impaired any of the development land and all the development yields come out when we put that land into use include that original basis in that lands.
So you see the development yields that we are getting today and we think those are definitely very market development yields.
On this particular land this was land we bought as part of the weaker acquisition way back when and I would tell you that we have done very very very very well on that land.
We sold a big chunk of that land to the Department of Defense when we get the BRAC project and did very well in that sale.
We sold another big chunk of land out into by Dallas to a company and by the name of aerospace where we are doing some third-party development on and we did very well on that land and really this was this land sale was basically all the rest of the land there is a little piece of industrial and one other little office piece.
So we’ve sold all of that land from the weaker transaction now and this was the only land where we have slight impairment on.
Yeah.
Okay I know it’s helpful did it looks like did you guys buy land in the quarter as well because it looks like your balance went up by I don’t know $13 million $14 million something like that? Yeah we bought an industrial parcel in Houston up in the Northwest is we are basically out of land in the Northwest side of Houston.
So we can do about 800 000 900 000 square feet.
One thing I’d like to point out to Brendan there are a couple of things on the land is I think you’ll see for the rest of the year.
We’ll end up the year like for at this level.
We hit our guidance our revised guidance at $40 million to $50 million in land proceeds.
We’ll actually end up with the total pretty nice profit margin on that land this call it 20% give or take and that includes this right down we just got and then the other thing I would just like to point out in case of any confusion.
We do not count any land so I have to take that call it 20% margin or whatever ends up being that will not be part of our core FFO and that had nothing to do with our core FFO guidance change.
I think you answered my last question before I could ask it.
Alright thanks Mark.
Okay.
We have a question from John Stewart.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
This is Eric Franklin here for John.
Sorry to hop on the land bank question for a second but for another minute but I just want to ask what do you think your ideal size that your land bank.
You are at 600 million now and so how long will it take it to get to that how long will it take it to get to that ideal size? Well I think the ideal size always depends on the level of activity on the development side.
Again what we’ve been saying here for the most recent past was obviously the land bank was larger than we won it when we headed into this down term economy when development slowed down.
We are now back to somewhat of a normal development cycle I wouldn’t say we are ahead a normal development cycle yet but we moved a lot of that land into the held for sale when we made the decision to get out of the merchant building business.
So that was part of the reason that land bank was higher and now we’ll as we move through that that won’t be part of the land bank any more than second thing is we are doing we are moving more and more out of the suburban office business and more and more into the bulk industrial and MOB business at a bulk industrial land is significantly cheaper in most markets then office land.
So I think overall the investment in land will be less when we have when we go to more industrial business and then we are not really buying any office land we are developing through the land that we have on the office side and we still got some great positions that’s indicated by the success we’ve had there just recently.
So again Eric I think if you are really looking at where if we are in the $500 million of new development and it’s half industrial and half MOB I think we could have a land bank lot in the $300 million to $400 million range and be fine.
Okay.
Thanks that’s helpful.
Final question obviously we you know you all recognized that you need to further or gradually improving could you possibly comment on what cash releases for the entire portfolio new annual leases? Well we don’t we never really track that just because basis are different and all that and we never had.
So but I guess I would say anecdotally I think clearly cash rents generally speaking from if again you are assuming leases in place had annual rental rate growth I think we are seeing probably maybe slightly negative to slightly positive in most markets on cash rents today to go from an old to a new fees.
And so what I’m saying I guess and that is probably anywhere from 1% to 1.5% negative.
So 1% to 2% positive.
Great and final question I guess I’m not sure if anyone would simply asked us but is there are there any properties that you’re bidding on currently we actually noticed that change in pricing as a result of the interest rate increase? I’m sorry I didn’t quite understand any properties.
On the properties you might be bidding on at this point in time have you noticed that change in pricing or change in the pricing environment as a result of the recent interest rate increases.
Well not really to be honest with it.
Although I just I think activities been a little bit slower here in the last 45 60 days but no quite honestly Eric I don’t think we’ve seen cap rates moved much but we’ll have to see this these transactions take while it get completed and we are seeing some of these not get closed that were probably under negotiation and getting pretty close before this spiked interest rates.
So I think if you see over the next 30 to 60 days of the interest that you see what trend we see in some of the cap rates.
Alright great.
That’s it from me.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Question from Michael Salinsky.
Please go ahead.
Good morning afternoon guys.
Denny you talked a lot about dispositions could you give us as a sense we’ve seen a lot of portfolio transactions I believe could you characterize the overall acquisition market at this point and what you are seeing in? Well I think on the acquisition market as I just said it’s been a little bit slow over the last 60 45 60 days I mean we closed most of our transactions more in the early in the second quarter and got some things out there today but I would say nothing that we are looking to close here in the like eminently I would say.
So I think they are little bit slow they are done a couple other portfolio transactions that we weren’t success bidders on for whatever reason I mean that we bid there on that we weren’t successful mostly pricing obviously and obviously the large transaction that was announced no matter where that was last night or today was it looks to me like mostly an off market transaction.
So I think you just never know you kind of abs and flows Mike so we could my sense is sellers probably are waiting a little bit to see what cap rates are going to move on since the moving interest rates and if they if interest rates are settled down here a little bit which other than maybe the day look like they settle down pretty well.
I think we’ll see some more activity later into third quarter.
So the overall the amount of – the overall pipeline at this point is it down significantly from the first half of the year out significantly is that how you characterize that? I would say it’s down a little bit down a little bit.
Okay.
There were some big transactions in the first half of the year so yeah its down a little bit right now.
Okay fair enough.
I want to go back to one of your in your prepared comments you talked about blocks of 500 000 square feet bulk industrial seeing better growth opportunities and in realized you’re growing that but as you look at renewal spreads cash per growth can you break out kind of what the growth you’re seeing on the bulk industrial versus some of the smaller foot prints? Again we just average it all together because the truth is almost all of our portfolio is true bulk.
Today less than 10% of our portfolio is in buildings under 100 000 square feet and I think it’s now up to about 40% of our portfolio is in buildings over 500 000 square feet.
So most of what you’ll see in our statistic is going to be true bulk types statistics.
And we just don’t have that much small space anymore around that I can give you as strong sense of what’s going on in the smaller spaces.
Fair enough and final question just you guys are marked really it sounds like there is the Cleveland Cincinnati portfolio what’s the buyer potential buyer profile on that are you seeing institutional investors or is that mostly families one-off buyers? I would say its one-off buyers and private equity kind of buyers not institutional which we never expected so private equity both smaller and maybe some larger private equity money out there.
Mostly value added yield focused? Value add I would say today.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Mr.
Salinsky do you have any additional question? No I think he is done.
We have a follow up from Ki Bin Kim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Could you give a little more detail around your service operation income more specifically are there any lumpy redevelopment projects you’re working on for third-parties that are conducing for that $50 million revenue run rate currently? No Ki Bin there is really nothing too lumpy I mean I think it set a pretty good run rate now I think as we go forward to may be 2014 what we try to do with that business is we size it according to the development projects we have for our own account so to the extent our development pipeline pitched up even more than it is today.
We’ll probably turn away some third party what we can focus more on doing a development for ourselves.
So I think as you get out in the 14 you may expect a smaller run rate but as of today there is not too much lumpiness in there.
And overall that if you take the opportunity if you concept that maybe I’ll ran on and let’s say there is less development that you have to do for internally on your balance sheet and what if the depth of that market that they probably develop more – is it I guess in a way very easy to hit that $50 million run rate? A $50 million run rate Ki Bin? $50 million per quarter I guess is that easy to maintain that if things did turn the other way where for some reason you decided not to develop as much on balance sheet and you had – G&amp;A flowing there is that $50 million is easy to ramp it up a little bit is that how deep that market is? Are you talking about revenue for instance.
Revenue basis yeah.
Yeah I think Ki Bin a couple of things I’d point out.
Part of that service business is our asset management property management business it’s not all just a development.
But from a development/construction standpoint we currently business all the time now the – the honest answer it’s not usually a real high margin business and we would rather resources fully for account.
In times where development pipelines had dried out take 2009 2010 we have been able to take on more work there there seems all to be work out there it’s just lower margin and it’s not a preferable work.
Okay and can you break out the 450 million this quarter you’ve had this five different piece to that.
I don’t have that in front of me Ki Bin.
The majority of it is our development/construction work but we can dig that up for you off line.
Okay thanks.
(Operator Instructions).
This time there are no further questions in queue.
And there are no further questions in the queue at this time.
I’d like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
We look forward to reconnecting during our third quarter call tentatively scheduled for October 31<sup>st</sup>.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T’s Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Duke Realty Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a questions-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to host Mr.
Ron Hubbard.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and CEO; Jim Connor Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Denien Chief Financial Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2012 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our thoughts on the overall real estate operating environment and how it is affecting us Jim Connor will give you an update on our leasing activity and development status I will review our recycling activity and Mark will then address our third quarter financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
We followed up with the positive momentum in the first two quarters with continued strength across all areas of our business.
We signed over 6.2 million square feet of leases in the third quarter and we achieved a 54% tenant retention rate with more of the square footage expiring already back filled as we indicated by our overall increase in occupancy.
We started $76 million of development projects across industrial medical office and suburban office projects with a weighted average stabilized yield of 8.3%.
Three of our four new development starts are 100% pre-leased build-to-suites with the four a multi tenant project that is already 64% pre-leased.
I will touch on the development in a little more detail shortly.
Our in-service increased 35 basis points from last quarter to 93.5% while our overall portfolio occupancy increased 30 basis points at quarter end to 93.4%.
I am happy to report that all product types contributed to this overall increase in occupancy.
We made continued progress on our asset repositioning strategy during the quarter generating $73 million of proceeds from non-strategic property and land dispositions with the portion of proceeds being recycled into two high quality industrial facilities we acquired for $39 million.
Mark will speak more in depth on our capital activities in a moment.
I’ll now touch a little bit on the overall market conditions we’re experiencing and how this is affecting our business.
In spite of GDP mumbling along between 1.5% to 2% in continued uncertainty coming from Washington DC we saw improved fundamentals across all of our product types and in most markets during the quarter.
Starting on the industrial side leasing has remain strong as reflected by another 10 to 20 basis point drop in national vacancy rates during the third quarter to the 8% range with improving rent growth prospects.
This decrease in overall vacancy has certainly been aided by the still relatively low level of new supply.
But nonetheless leading indicators such as trucking rail and the ISM have shown increasing strength which bodes well for a continuation of solid industrial demand.
We also continue to see more relative strength in the big box industrial product.
In particular the trends in e-commerce are firmly intact with direct business to consumer retail sales expected to grow 20% per year which is driving steady incremental demand for larger modern fulfilment distribution centers primarily between about 300 000 and 1 million square feet.
And obviously Duke Realty is clearly a national leader in the ability to facilitate tenant expansion and the ongoing ability to efficiently operate modern bulk industrial facilities.
40% of our existing portfolio our buildings over 500 000 square feet which has a current occupancy level of about 97%.
The remaining 60% of our industrial portfolio represents buildings less than 500 000 square feet and are just under 93%.
So obviously we have some additional upside in our overall industrial occupancy of about another 100 basis points or so.
In addition we have entitled land positions in major distribution markets on which we can develop another 50 million square feet of bulk industrial product.
With respect to leasing in our in-service portfolio we continue to see fundamentals improve that the completion of nearly 4.1 million square feet of leases for the quarter.
Bulk industrial in-service occupancy rose to 94.6% 23 basis points above the previous quarter and nearly 70 basis points above a year ago.
13 of our 22 book markets are now over 95% leased with 5 under 90%.
As we stated last year the lack of available large block space in key distribution markets is generating growth opportunities in our development business and improves our position to push rents.
Moving to medical office and starting from a macro level we consistently stated that the commencement of The Affordable Care Act will only help the demand for new outpatient facilities as these types of facilities will help health systems lower cost of care and handle the increase and short individuals coming into the system.
This is proving to be true as we see high demand from major customers through our facilities to handle these new patients.
Finally the suburban office sector has continue to show more positive trends although national vacancies are in the mid to high teens net absorption stayed positive for the 14th consecutive quarter and rental rates per square foot are up a few percentage points since the end of last year after nearly five years of stagnant rent.
Similar to last quarter we've had increasing momentum in suburban office leasing and place in the context of our active disposition program.
Our quarterly average same property occupancy is up 150 basis points over the prior year.
Overall in-service portfolio occupancy at quarter end now stands at 87.2 which is up 72 basis points from the prior quarter.
Now I'll turn it over to Jim Connor to give a little more color on our leasing activity and development pipeline.
Well thank you.
Good afternoon everybody.
We’ll start off on the industrial side several notable deals that we executed this quarter include two new leases in our distribution parks down in Dallas.
The first one was a 378 000 square foot new lease with Continental Tire that backfilled the space where we had a prior tenant bankruptcy.
Then in the second space was a 263 000 square foot new lease with Anna’s Linens that brings our Dallas industrial portfolio to over 98% leased.
We also had a lot of strong activity in the Indianapolis market.
We signed a new lease with Genco for 309 000 square feet in airport submarket.
We also executed two large renewal leases in Indianapolis one was an auto supplier for 520 000 square feet and the other was a third part of logistics company for 383 000 feet.
Across our entire portfolio we signed 70 industrial leases this quarter a level that exceeds even our expectations to lead in the second half of the year.
And I would tell you that the industrial leasing prospects look bright for the remainder of the year.
With improved lease fundamentals we've signed nearly 1.4 million square foot of leases in our suburban office portfolio.
Some of the most notable deals include 58 000 square foot lease with Farmers Insurance in our South Florida market.
Similar to last quarter we had strong leasing activity in the Midwest suburban office portfolios.
Most notably in St.
Louis we signed an 87 000 square foot lease renewal with [Etna].
In Indianapolis we signed a 75 000 square foot lease renewal with the major accounting firm.
And in Cincinnati we signed a 64 000 square foot lease renewal with UBS Financial.
On the medical office side our in-service portfolio was up 85 basis points reflected by strong leasing activity across the quarter portfolio.
I’m pleased to report that our development starts are continuing at a steady pace after $222 million of starts in the first two quarters.
We started over $76 million in developments across four projects during the third quarter.
The starts are diversified mix of industrial medical office and suburban office and both ground up development and expansion projects.
On the industrial side we started a 534 000 square foot build-to-suit in our West Jefferson Park in Columbus Ohio.
That facility is leased to 10 years to Ace Hardware and will service their supply distribution center for the Midwest retail outlets.
The second industrial start was a 52 000 square foot expansion of our grand warehouse project in the O'Hare submarket of Chicago.
For both of those projects the stabilized yields are projected to be in the high 7% range.
On the suburban office side we started another speculative project in our Raleigh Perimeter Park development.
Perimeter 3 which is 204 000 square feet is 64% pre-leased.
Many of you remember that earlier this year we started Perimeter 2 in Raleigh.
Perimeter 2 is now 91% pre-leased and scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2014.
Our Raleigh team has a strong list of top quality prospects for the remainder of the spacing of these two projects and our existing portfolio of Raleigh is also 97% so demand is strong.
We expect to earn stabilized yields on both of these projects in excess of 9%.
Finally our fourth start was a 49 000 square foot on-campus medical office development in Cincinnati.
The facility is 100% pre-leased for 15 years to the healthcare system backed by Good Samaritan Hospital which is a AA rated credit.
Our total development pipeline as of September 30th stands at 2.3 million square feet totaling $391 million of stabilized cost and 85% pre-leased.
We are projecting a weighted average stabilized yield of 7.9% and average yield over the initial lease term of 8.9%.
We’re also pleased to announce we signed another build-to-suit project with Amazon on our industrial ground in the Port of Baltimore.
This represents our third building in excess of 1 million square feet that we signed with Amazon in the past 24 months.
Construction has already started on that project.
Let me conclude on the development side by saying that our development platform is a key growth driver for Duke Realty.
We have strategic land bank exceptional relationships and a reputation in the market that will allow us to continue to create value to our development platform over the long-term.
And now I will turn it back over to Denny to cover our recycling activities.
Thanks Jim.
During the quarter we recycled our disposition proceeds into two very high quality industrial facilities totaling $38.8 million.
The first was a 343 000 square foot modern bulk facility in the I-81 Corridor in Central Pennsylvania.
Facility is 100% leased to Kimberley Clark with the remaining lease term of six years and annual rental escalations of 2.5%.
The building is five years and designed for today’s modern logistic needs including cross-docking and extra trailer storage.
The second acquisition during the quarter was a 110 000 square foot newly build industrial facility in the South Bay submarket of Southern California.
The project is strategically located in the New Douglas Park Brownfield redevelopment adjacent to the [Vero] Beach Airport.
This submarket has maintained our occupancy levels of over 96% over the last 10 years and currently stands at 98.5% leased.
The acquired facility is under a 10 year lease with solid 2% rent bumps.
We believe both of these very high quality one-off acquisitions during the quarter represents strong risk-adjusted investments as we continue our asset recycling.
Moving to dispositions during the quarter we sold two non-core properties totaling about $45 million the largest of which was a 205 000 square foot medical office building located in Northern Indiana which we referenced last quarter.
The other property was a small non-strategic vacant industrial facility located in Chicago.
The remaining $27 million of disposition proceeds were from land sales.
As reference on last quarter's call we closed on the sale of a 32 acre office land parcel in Washington DC and also sold 33 acres of office land located in Minneapolis Indianapolis and Atlanta markets.
As noted on the last call we feel very good about executing additional land sales in the fourth quarter for our revised land sales guidance at prices well in excess of book value.
I’d like to point out that for the year we sold $465 million of non-strategic properties at an in place cap rate of 6.23% and redeployed those proceeds in strategic acquisitions of $472 million at an in place cap rate of 6.24%.
So we have effectively matched up our capital and in place NOI dollar-for-dollar loss substantially increasing the quality of our portfolio and reallocating proceeds to bulk industrial assets.
Also on the cash or AFFO basis these transactions are accretive as the CapEx requirements for the acquired properties are less than the sold properties.
We continue to progress on our Midwest suburban office sale.
To-date we have $84 million of sales in St.
Louis under firm contracts which we expect to close in November.
We also have signed letters of intent and buyers are underway on due diligence on about $110 million of properties in Cincinnati Cleveland and Chicago which we expect to finalize and close in December.
And finally we’re in advanced negotiations on another portfolio in Cincinnati totaling about a $150 million which we believe will proceed and likely close in early 2014.
These transactions represent the entire portfolio that we marketed.
We've also marketed our portfolio of medical office assets specifically assets that were older or less strategic due to limited future development opportunities with the health systems leasing the properties.
The portfolio consists of 17 medical office assets totaling about 938 000 square feet located primarily in the Midwest.
Portfolio marketed has an average age of 9.4 years compared with our overall medial office portfolio age of 6.8 years.
After receiving several strong offers we've recently accepted an offer on the entire portfolio.
We're in early stages of due diligence but expect this portfolio sale to close before year-end and expect proceed to be above $250 million.
I'll now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our financial results and capital plans.
Thanks Denny.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I would like to provide an update on our third quarter financial performance as well as the progress on our capital strategy.
Core FFO for the third quarter of 2013 was $0.28 per share compared with $0.27 per share in the second quarter of 2013.
Core FFO this quarter reflected the continued improvement in portfolio operations the highlight of which was positive same property NOI growth for the 12 and 3 months ended September 30th of 4.3% and 4.4% respectively.
This positive performance due to the strong leasing the last few quarters driving an increase in occupancy across all product types along with growth and rental rates and rent escalations built into our leases.
Our growth in overall average net effective rent on renewals was about 2.6% for the quarter.
We had very strong growth of 8% on industrial renewals.
Our strong current occupancy levels in high asset quality is allowing to push rents in almost all markets on the industrial side.
This is the ninth quarter in a row that we had positive rent growth on industrial renewals and we expect this trend to continue as over 50% of our industrial lease expirations over the next 15 months were signed between 2008 and 2011.
So we expect significant growth as those leases roll.
Not surprisingly we did experience a slight roll down in the rents on suburban office renewals.
We generated $0.22 per share in AFFO compared to $0.24 per share of AFFO for the second quarter of 2013.
Due to the anticipated timing of our lease related CapEx towards the second half of the year related to the occupancy [entrees] just mentioned AFFO per share this quarter was in line with our expectations.
In summary we are pleased with another strong quarter of operating results and anticipate continued solid execution during the fourth quarter.
Now I will quickly recap the capital transactions for the quarter.
We repaid six secured loans totaling $77 million which had an average effective interest rate of 5.6%.
In the process we unencumbered about a $162 million of properties to enhance our financial flexibility and credit profile.
As Denny mentioned we generated $73 million of proceeds from non-strategic asset dispositions during the quarter.
Disposition activity outpaced acquisitions for the quarters we purchased two industrial properties for $39 million.
We finished the quarter with about $210 million outstanding on our $850 million line of credit compared to $88 million outstanding on the revolver at June 30.
Given our strong expected fourth quarter disposition activity Denny alluded to we expect to use the proceeds from these dispositions to repay our outstanding line balance and fund fourth quarter development activity.
This will put us in a solid liquidity position heading into 2014 not to mention that we don’t have any debt maturities of significance until August of 2014.
We achieved improvements in our key leverage metrics during the third quarter as well with the fixed charge coverage ratio now over 2.0 for the rolling 12 months ended September 30 compared to 1.9 for the rolling 12 months ended June 30.
Fixed charge coverage for just the third quarter exceeded 2.1 times which is more reflected of our current leverage profile.
I would also like to point out that these metrics will continue to improve over the coming quarters simply by completing our development projects that are currently under construction given that they are 85% leased in the aggregate and the balance sheet already reflects the substantial portion of the cost having been incurred without the benefit of the earnings.
I will conclude by saying that I am very pleased that we've continued the strong trend in operating results for the third quarter we've continued to execute our asset plan and we've completed a few capital transactions to further improve our credit ratios.
We're confident we will meet our year-end capital strategy goals that we originally set.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Mark.
Yesterday we reaffirmed our guidance of FFO for 2013 at $1.07 to $1.11 per share based on our solid operating performance thus far.
In closing after a solid quarter we believe our value creation story is firing on all cylinders with excellent leasing result improving rent growth prospects all the asset repositioning and development activities in an improving credit profile.
Thank you again for your support of Duke Realty.
And with that we will open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question we will go to line of Jamie Feldman.
Please go ahead.
I guess the first question is you guys like you are on pretty good tract here fundamentally why not take the guidance up given that you just kind of kept your range?  Well I would say Jamie our range is fairly tight with $0.04 you know.
You never know when a transaction is going to take you up to higher level in the mid-point.
So I think we are very comfortable with just a $0.04 guidance and we only got three more months to figure out what it actually will be.
Okay.
And then I don’t how much (inaudible) you can give around Amazon but can you talk a little bit about the economics in the size and I guess even more importantly what are they doing with that space? And what is the safer kind of future demand and especially demand from that kind of tenant? Let me start by saying we really can’t talk much about obviously with confidentiality agreements with Amazon as far as many details of the overall transaction.
When we report our fourth quarter activity what we can disclose would be included in that.
And Jim why don’t you talk about a little bit about the nature of the facility and what we’re really seeing in the e-commerce area to that.
I am not sure Denny   Well I am sure most of you are aware of e-commerce continues to grow dramatically.
We’ve all seen the projections currently comprises 9% of retail sales and is projected to go north of 20 in the coming years.
That is obviously fueling a great deal of warehouse demand.
Amazon continues to lead the charge with the large million square foot facilities.
By and large they are all generally build to suits.
They are all fulfillment centers of some sort.
They are also engaging in some smaller facilities.
We are starting to see come around the marketplace.
We have not completed any of those but I think you will see in addition to Amazon you are starting to see a lot of other major retailers move into dedicated e-commerce distribution facilities.
The other buzzword that we are seeing around the industry is on the channel distribution centers where major retailers are distributing to their stores and supporting online although the same warehouse.
So that’s a growing trend that we are seeing as well.
And then I guess how do we think about you said maybe also have some smaller ones you are looking at I have seen that for the same and next day delivery.
What are you guys seeing in terms of that pipeline and are you positioned for it with your land bank or is that actually more of an infill story?  No I think we believe we are pretty well positioned for that.
I don’t -- we are not aware that any of them are what we would call true infills in major metropolitan areas.
I think they are looking at more traditional distribution locations just small or more typical traditional distribution centers for this large million square footage.
And Jamie I think that these -- we are never quite sure as close to these customers of ours are fairly tight lift about exactly what they are doing out (inaudible) facility but I think we would suspect that lot of those facilities are for the smaller facilities by smaller 250 000 to 500 000 square feet are for local same day delivery.
Okay.
And then finally I know you mentioned in general you don't think supplies are really as you get but are there any markets for you are starting to get concerned.
I know when we see the data on Indianapolis that's one we're certainly expecting to be we expect pipeline tend to be growing pretty quickly.
Jamie I would have told you that it was a concern in the second quarter because we had half a dozen buildings out there and the activity was below what we would traditionally expect in Indianapolis which has historically been a very strong distribution market.
Activity in the late third quarter and fourth quarter has been very very good.
I think everybody will be very positively surprised.
We do not expect space to comes off the market the next time we're having this conference call.
Are there any other markets that you're watching as riskier? No Jamie I don't think so.
We just updated our third quarter analysis and I would tell you while we watch all of our markets very closely with a number of projects the square footage and the percentage leased we look at historical levels and all of the spec it's under construction in the U.S.
and still only about a third of what we ran at for levels in 2005 2006 and 2007.
No market is exceeding 2% of its overall industrial base.
So we still think the market are pretty good balanced most of them are actually less than 1% of the total industrial base.
So that’s a very manageable number for most of these markets given our annual absorption.
So will continue to be moderate but since year-to-date we don’t think the spec development is impeding the safety in any of our markets.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will go to Dave Rodgers.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Denny obviously you talked about kind of swapping better NOI for what you’ve been selling and you’ve done a good job matching that up to this point you’ve got $400 million kind of plus coming into the fourth quarter.
Do you have a agreed view to proceeds as you sit today and kind of being able to match that up is that going to development is that going to the balance sheet? Can you kind of talk about some of that uses that add any potential dilution in the timing of getting that back out to work? Yeah.
I’ll let Mark have it.
Yeah.
I’ll start on that Dave and then Denny can chime in.
If you think about give or take $400 million $450 million proceeds Denny just talked about coming in in the fourth quarter we have got about two tenant outstanding on our line which is really used to fund third quarter development for the most part.
So we’ll take half of those proceeds give or take and pay that line balance off.
And we’ll be able to fund our fourth quarter pipeline across which is probably close to another $150 million.
So that we’ll use most of it up there.
And then we may end up the year which is the little bit of cash that’s basically prefunded our early 2014 development.
And then I guess maybe moving over to the office renewals Jim I think you’ve mentioned in your comments and maybe to Denny but better Jim with regard to the renewals that you did Indianapolis I know you talked about Cincinnati as well.
Was that the benefit from consolidation at all? Was there any downsizing in leases or are these kind of as these leases and just kind of rolling the market? No.
I would say actually it’s all really positive news.
Most of these companies more in the financial services insurance healthcare services business and we didn’t lose ground with any of these tenants.
All of these tenants remained as is or several of them were actually cooperating some slight bit of expansion in there.
So it’s just the continuation of the good performance of our office portfolio this year.
I think we are all very pleasantly surprised to see our office occupancies continuing to grow given where we are with the overall economy.
But the news is good we’re all fairly optimistic about that continuing to get better as we move rolled in the fourth quarter and then into 2014.
Last question on the maybe call it secondary office market sales you talked about or what’s under contract what’s I mean better demand today for some of those assets? Are you seeing a broader buyer of pools including institutions kind of maybe dipping into the market a little bit more or is it a function of financing just a little bit more color on that would be helpful? Thanks.
Dave we began marketing that portfolio early summer late spring early summer I would say probably towards the end of May.
And we’ve had good activity all along what has just taken probably a little longer than a normal transaction on this is really splitting the portfolio up in the multiple buyers and just takes longer.
And we’ve done that so really try to maximize proceeds and I think that’s really what will happen as we complete these transactions.
The demand has been good all along I would say.
In this particular portfolio I wouldn’t classify the buyers as institutional investors.
More private equity type buyers getting financing.
Financing is readily available for these projects since through the last few months the interest rates really have stabilized on the borrowing that folks were looking at.
So again I just think there is sufficient demand out there for all types of real estate and a pretty varying buyer pool.
But the buyer pool on these properties on the Midwest suburban office side has really been private equity firms.
Then on the MOB side we have very strong demand for that portfolio and it is obviously more institutional investors and we had a lot of offers on that portfolio and what I would say a pretty tight range.
So we are very pleased with the results on that portfolio.
And again on the MOB side this is a few of our older assets in there.
So I think overall with this disposition we are improving the overall quality of the MOB portfolio that we will hold going forward.
Thank you.
Thank you Dave.
We will go to line of Josh Attie.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Can you give us a sense for the average cap rates on the $350 million of office sales and $250 million of MOB sales?  Well I since our closing in all these different transactions I would rather wait and give you those at the end of fourth quarter Josh when we get them closed.
So but I will say they are in-line with what we have been talking about on the Midwest office portfolio and really as well I think long they are in-line with the cap rates that we have been talking about on the MOB portfolio.
Okay.
And then on use of proceeds it sounds like the $450 million that’s coming in the door fourth quarter is to the bid online the credit and fund development.
What’s the reinvestment plan for the remaining 150 just to help us understand what the earnings impact will be on 2014? I will say most of that will be redeployed back into the ongoing development pipeline.
We have got a pretty strong development pipeline which just got bigger with the signing of the Amazon project in Baltimore.
So we’ve got plenty of use of those proceeds they will really redeploy pretty quickly.
So you think I mean just to think about the your entire $600 million that you’ve talked about selling all of that will go to either pay down on line of credit and fund development none of that we should expect to go to acquisitions? Well I think we still got an active acquisition program going on it’s been relative I would say compared to what we’ve done over the last couple of years has been relatively slow here more recently with the fewer large portfolios out there.
But we’re still in discussions on some one-off type projects basically on the industrial side.
And so I think you’ll see as continue to have a few of those each quarter.
Okay.
And then on the acquisitions that you made at Central Pennsylvania and Southern California it looks like you paid a 5.5 comp and the assets are fully leased.
Can just talk about what kind of returns you’re projecting on these deals and sort of how you get there is it a planned rent growth or do you think that cap rates for these assets compress further?  Well I would say it’s a combination of few things.
And first of all I would say what we’re continuing to do here is take our disposition proceeds and generally redploying back into acquisitions which is same strategy we’ve had for the last two to three years.
And so with us it’s a matching of dispositions and acquisitions.
And as I mentioned in the prepared remarks when you look at this year-to-date it’s almost incredible that we’ve ended up with almost the same amount of dispositions and acquisitions that almost exactly the same cap rate.
And what we’ve been able to do as we’ve done that is put proceeds back into what we believe are really I think a good cap rates probably better than market cap rates on very solid industrial properties that are in key distribution markets long-term growth markets for us.
And I would say the acquisitions have two characteristics.
One is nice rent growth and the existing leases that are in place as well as being located in markets where we think we’re going to have good longer-term rent growth there and ultimately have good rent growth when the leases expire.
And one other thing I want to keep pointing out that I’ve said on the calls before and in our discussions with you all is in most of these block buildings that we’re buying not all of them but a lot of them are single tenant buildings which is really the bulk business and you either buy these things a 100% leased or you buy them zero percent leased.
We typically have tried to buy zero percent leased buildings because we want to zero percent lease building will build a spec building on some of the great industrial ground that we have.
So you just don’t find that many portfolios out there that are 80% or 85% or even 90% leased they are either zero or 100.
And so that’s why you we see us buying a out of those 100% leased buildings but again focusing on a key distribution markets with good long-term rent growth profile.
Hey Denny it’s Michael Bilerman good afternoon.
Just two quick questions one was just as you think about selling 250 million of medical office of course it’s 20% of the medical office portfolio before you bring on forth any new development.
Was there sort of a strategic relook at potentially hiding it off completely and really holding in on being a much pure industrial player as you continue to sell off suburban office and how much time just given the cap rates ever being paid for medical office and some of your peer also going through some of that refocus did that take off your attention?  Well I would tell you this portfolio Michael that the whole strategic reason for selling this portfolio was it was just some relatively older assets a couple that we bought from some major customers of ours over the years as well as some of the development we did early on in process of building this business including some that occurred back and like development that started back in ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 before we even brought Jim Bremner and his team fully into our company.
And the other piece of it was these were generally with hospital systems where we don’t see a big future expanded relationship.
And like you noticed we haven’t sold anything with Baylor and some of the major customers that we have around the country.
So it was just a strategic look at the portfolio it’s a some money off the table and what we believe I am not disagreeing but it’s a good time to sell these properties and there is fairly high demand as I mentioned we have very strong interest in this portfolio.
So that was really the goal and right now we have got pipeline roughly equal to what we are selling and we think that pipeline is going to continue to be stable on MOB development business.
So we are just looking to take those proceeds and redeploy them back into the MOB business going forward.
And then the Amazon stuff I remember one was in the [CBRE] venture.
I don’t know if that got redistributed do you wholly own the other one that you have and then I guess this will be wholly owned Amazon facility as well that you are building in Baltimore?  We have three.
One in Delaware just south of Philadelphia that we’ve finished late last year.
We have got one in Seattle that we finished just couple of months ago during this last past quarter.
And now we’ve got this one that we’re starting in Baltimore.
But we’ve also got an Amazon and a lot of other facilities.
And the answer is yes they are in a couple of facilities in our Chamber Street joint venture one in Indianapolis and one in Phoenix.
And then again we have I mean a number of other the spaces around the system.
So I think you’ll see Amazon in the next quarter actually tick up to be our largest tenant in our overall portfolio.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Michael.
And we have a question from Blaine Heck.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Denny I just wanted to see if we could get some commentary on how we should think about occupancy gains going forward? You guys have done a good leasing up the portfolio.
But looks like the majority of additional leasing will need to be done in the suburban office portfolio.
So is there anything you can point to that gives you confidence in your ability to continue to show occupancy growth in the fourth quarter and into ‘14? And maybe where do you think you can ultimately get that lease rate up to? Well let me start on that and then I’ll let Jim chime in also.
Because I would say first of all on the suburban office yeah you are right.
I think we got a good chance to see our occupancies continue to grow there and I think with any lock in the economy the growth in the occupancy in that portfolio could accelerate.
And some of that there is a little volatility in suburban office occupancy rate for us because of our disposition programs.
So some of it depends on what we sell.
Like for example the portfolio that we're marketing that I talked about in all these pieces and parts is overall about 93% leased so little bit higher than our average occupancy.
And then on the medical office business there is I think there is still room to grow.
Today a lot of the development that we're starting is 100% preleased by the hospital systems.
But we still got a little bit of vacancy and some of that is some vacancy we built or bought in the portfolio but really I would say that that’s the medical office portfolio run above 95%.
So I think we've got another 150 to 200 basis points worth of growth in that portfolio.
And then I mentioned we mentioned here that the large bulk distribution piece of our portfolio was that our 40% of it is fairly highly leased at about 97% but I think there is some room for growth than the other piece of that portfolio.
And Jim maybe you’d comment on that and what we're seeing in that piece of the portfolio.
Yes sure.
The comment I would make and we've been asked this question a couple times before how much upside that we really have.
I think if you go back and look at historically we brought our industrial portfolio as high as 95.5.
So I would tell you that we've got a little bit more upside in the industrial portfolio not a lot of it is in the big boxes because over 500 000 square foot buildings in our portfolio are about 98% leased today.
So most of that improvement is going to come in in the midsize to 100 to 500 under 100 000 square footers but [versus] was good operators we've ever been and I would like to believe we can continue to get back to where we draw that historic levels.
And I think at the same time that will take us a little bit longer.
I think the same could be said in the office.
We’d historically run that office portfolio in better times in the low 90s.
So while the office market is not the overall office market is not as good as it was a few years ago I’d like believe we’ve got lots of upside there as well.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then on same-store NOI you guys are at 3.5% year-to-date given that you are going to be starting to compare against some pretty occupancy level.
Is it fair to expect that that specific is going to moderate a bit in the coming quarters? Yeah Blaine we’re at 4.3% year-to-date all in on a 12 month versus 12 month.
And our original guidance for the year is in the 1% to 4% range we’re still pretty comfortable with that.
So I think that we still expect some growth as we move forward but it should moderate probably a little bit as we close out the year given the higher occupancy base we are working those.
So it will probably be in that in the 3% or maybe north of that range a little bit but still in that 1% to 4% for the year.
Okay.
And then last one from me your development pipeline it looks like you are expecting some relatively high yields from the projects you started during the quarter.
Is there anything that’s driving your ability to target the higher yields and do you think that's going to be sustainable in the near to mid-term? Well two things I would say is one our overall yields are higher because overall we’ve started some office development during the year and particularly during the quarter.
And just typically our office yields are higher than industrial yields and we all pretty much know why that is.
And again the other piece is a lot of it’s obviously a lot of this development is going on ground that we own and ground that we may have owned for a while and have good bases in for example the Columbus ground that we have for the industrial build-to-suit.
So typically if we have got a good ground with good bases we’re going to get higher overall yields.
And that I guess I would also say that it’s hard to predict because of that because you don’t know exactly what kind of development you are going to see going forward whether it will be some more office on some of the office ground we have left or whether it’s a build-to-suit in one of the major markets where the cap rates are lower and there is more competition.
So I think it’s just really the overall cap rates on the development just depends on the mix and the geography.
Great thanks.
We have a question from Rob Stevenson.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Can you guys talk about what the impact is going to wind up being on the occupancy in the suburban and medical office portfolio on the sales the assets you are selling higher or lower occupancy or roughly similar to what the overall portfolios are? Well I mentioned on the Midwest office sales it’s about 93% leased so it’s a little bit higher than our overall occupancy at 87% plus.
So that would have a tendency to pull that occupancy down a little bit I'm not sure it's going to go down but just if you look at that sale it would.
On the [MOB] that portfolio has got 97% leased.
And I think our overall portfolio is around 94%.
But it's again it's only about 10% 12% I guess of the overall portfolio.
So I don't think it will have much of an impact.
Okay.
And then you guys have been averaging about $100 million of draw in starts thus far in ‘13.
What's your sort of tolerance at this point what you're seeing in your individual markets to ramp that up materially as well as what's your tolerance these days to start additional spec developments? I think I'll comment overall and then I'll let Jim come on what we're seeing on the spec side.
But I think right now we sort of target a range ongoing development in I’ll call it [bias] at $700 million range we don't really want to get much above that just turns into rating agency issues and others.
And the truth is I don't think we feel like we have a lot of opportunity that we’d exceed that here right now.
One of the things we focused on is the build-to-suit activity because we're sort of in that sweet spot especially on the industrial side of build-to-suit activity where our customers have time to grow their business by doing build-to-suit activity and we’d just assume to do that.
And so we’re focused on that.
And of course as I mentioned the MOBs have been virtually all 100% leased projects too.
So we've kept that portfolio up in the 85% to plus percent range leased because it’s under development.
And Jim why don’t you comment on the spec side of the business and what you’re seeing? Yeah.
I would add to Denny’s comments while we've got a few spec developments underway and we're starting to see some leasing some of those projects so they’re coming along nicely I will tell you our build-to-suit pipeline is so strong that we really rather than continue to focus on that so that when those buildings come into service they’re having an immediate positive impact.
As I said earlier we monitor all of our markets look at all spec development.
Nationwide our markets we're looking about 20% preleasing we're leasing on all of spec at least that we're seeing across.
So we're not seeing great leasing demand for spec space so that combined with the amount of build-to-suit opportunities has really led us to kind of stay the course of being a little bit cautious about spec and continue to focus on the build-to-suits.
I think as Denny said we're very comfortable that we want to meet our budget goals and our guidance this year.
And if we can do that and continue to focus on build-to-suits where we've got 85% of the portfolio preleased I think we're creating a value that way.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Rob.
Then we’ll go to Eric Frankel.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Maybe touching on Michael Bilerman’s question it seems you have a very good relationship with Amazon.
Just curious given your recent projects in Washington and Delaware and that was one incorporates it seems like your facilities are getting increasing specialized especially the revolving infrastructure would it mean tearing the bottom sales.
There are two questions what your thoughts on the tenant concentration issue as you mentioned they’re going to be the largest tenant? And then two just specialized nature of a building and if that is not so commodity like like a typical big box? Thanks.
Yeah.
So first of all as far as Amazon goes it will be our largest tenant but it’s only going to be like somewhere between 3% to 4% of our overall revenue so we’re not too concerned about just looking at Amazon.
The second thing is as you guys if you follow the industry I am sure you’ve seen it Amazon is really built facilities virtually all over the country.
And what we try to do is concentrate our business with them and as much as we can in the major distribution markets and as well as on our land when we can do that.
And I think we’re very comfortable with the projects that we’re building from a long-term perspective.
First of all we’re signing generally 15 year leases on this with Amazon but we’re also very comfortable with these projects on a long-term basis because of their location and because of the kind of building they are.
Eric you’re correct that generally speaking we’re seeing Amazon do some specialize investment in these projects but under the terms of the lease that just it just really isn’t an issue to us.
So we’re looking at these buildings as being a Amazon were to leave at their lease term these are buildings that generically buildings that generically we can turn back into a just a normal distribution center and they are located in good distribution markets.
Okay.
Thanks for the proper response.
The other question I have on the suburban office sales it seems like they are selling little bit more than you initially projected a quarter ago.
Can you just comment on a square footage that you are likely going to be selling in each market? I don’t have each market in front of me it’s a total of about 2.3 million square feet and I think there might be another couple of hundred thousand square feet that we are selling out at the Chambers Street joint venture.
So I think it’s right in line with exactly where we thought we were going to be when we start is six months ago.
Okay thanks.
And then my final is just regarding your land type plan even you feel like you have pretty good activity in that perhaps you can monetize that with additional build-to-suits maybe if you could just provide a timeframe of your land monetization outlook? Well I could say the couple of things that’s happened with the overall land pipeline.
First of all the development business has accelerated over the last 18 to 24 months pretty significantly.
So we’re able to put more land into service through the development pipeline.
And I think this year we are going to be probably somewhere in the I don’t have again the exact number in front of me but $35 million to $50 million of land put into development.
And then the other piece is we’ve really seen an increase in our ability to sell some land this year.
And most of the land we are selling is land that was two things one originally designated for sale back a few years ago we went through the whole portfolio.
Or second land is that was originally entitled for us for office property haven't sold much of any on the industrial land side.
And a lot of that office land sales is gone to other usage really to residential or even some retail that we see and will see.
So I think overall the pace of us moving through our land inventory has accelerated quite a bit over the last 24 months.
And so generally speaking we feel very good about the land inventory that we have today and where we stand.
And as I mentioned on the call we've got industrial land that we can do over 50 million square feet of new development on.
So hopefully we'll continue to get a lot of the build-to-suits and in the case when spectrum moves through that.
Just one final question regarding the Medical Office portfolio could you quantify that either on-campus or off-campus? This portfolio that we're selling is above I think it's about 85% plus on campus.
Okay great.
Thank you Just kind of nears or rest of our MOB portfolio.
Okay.
Thank you We go to line of Michael Salinsky.
Please go ahead Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
As you think about the build-out in for other land pipelines for ‘14 and ’15 and have you started to looking at taking out additional land at this point? Generally not we bought one parcel in Houston earlier this year up in the Northwest side because we didn’t have any land.
We developed all our land on the industrial side there.
Jim I don’t think we've really bought any other land this year have we?  No Denny.
We've got more than a few inventory in most of our markets so we've got additional capacity.
We’ll continue to look at things but I think we've got little ways to go before we back actively in the land market.
Second question you gave a lot of color on pricing growth in the Medical Office and in suburban office.
So can you just talk a little bit of the bulk industrial whether you've seen any change with the movement in industry over the last call it 90 to 180 days? I got to tell you we really have it.
I am little surprised but I think when you look at at least the market where we're playing in in industrial we're looking at the major distribution markets and a Class A modern both properties.
Most of the buyers are not leveraged buyers they’re institutional investors in that a product type.
So we quite honestly have not seen much movement at all in the cap rate in the bulk industrial side.
And then just final question on the asset sales that how much leverage is in place on those currently? Virtually none I think there is a couple small ones on the Midwest office portfolio and then not much at all though.
Thank you much We’ll go to line of (inaudible).
Just a quick one for me.
You sounds working on plan I mean too much in acquisitions over the next couple of quarters.
Is that reflected of what you are seeing in the market is it tight supply of prices above what you would like to pay can you provide me a little color there?  Yeah.
I would say the two primary drivers of that one would be just what’s out there and available at the market.
Generally speaking we haven’t -- it’s been I would say a little bit slower on the disposition market over the last probably six months and I think some of that has to do with sellers looking at what the interest rate increases were going to do to cap rates.
So that the people held back a little bit on selling.
Second again go back to our plan is to on the recycling side is to match up dispositions with acquisitions and we've got some dispositions going but as we talked earlier in a couple of questions that were asked we've redeployed most of those proceeds in either into acquisitions that we've completed or into the strong development pipeline that we have.
So some of it is just really also what's out there in the market and we’ll see what happens over the next couple of months.
I would anticipate much coming out between now and year-end but would take may be at the beginning of next year things hold stable.
We would see a larger supply then we’ll just see if there is something that’s with us strategically.
But overall you would be open just currently there is nothing there target that?  Yeah that’s what I would say [Brandon].
And then on the recent spreads on the industrial portfolio going forward I think you mentioned that about 50% of the leases that are rolling in the next 15 months were signed 2008 to 2011 what can we kind of expect from recent spreads on that part of the portfolio?  Well I think if you were to look at that 50% I will let Jim tick me on this one but I would say probably you are looking at 15% to 25% say in rental rate increases on average on just those leases.
So I am not saying overall we’re going to have 20% 25% rent growth but I think if you look at those leases that are rolling as we go something was signed in 2008 or 2009 we’re probably looking at 15% plus rent growth on those at today’s rate again in most of the markets.
Jim do you think that’s about right?  Just set floor for me.
No guys I think that is right.
I think when you look at the leases that are rolling in and when they were signed in some of the softer times combined with where our occupancies is our mission has been and will continue to be to push rents.
Well that’s great.
Thanks a lot.
(Operator Instructions).
And at this time there are no questions in queue.
Please continue.
We appreciate everyone for joining the call today and look forward to seeing many of you at the NAREIT Conference in San Francisco in a few weeks or if not we will reconvene during our fourth quarter and year-end earnings call tentatively scheduled for January 30.
Have a Happy Halloween and thanks again.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Duke Realty Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
You will have an opportunity to ask questions during the presentation.
Instructions will be given then.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Ron Hubbard Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone.
And welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and CEO; Jim Connor Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Denien Chief Financial Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2012 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron and good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments during 2013 followed by our thoughts on the overall real estate operating environment and how it is affecting us.
Jim Connor will then give you an update on our real estate operation I’ll review our asset of repositioning activity and Mark will then address our fourth quarter and full year financial performance and progress on our capital strategy and then we’ll share details of our 2014 guidance.
Our solid operational performance strong new development starts and achievement of the asset repositioning and capital goals we established back in 2009 resulted in an outstanding year for Duke Realty.
A few of the highlights for the year were as follows.
We signed 30 million square feet of leases equal an all-time record and achieved a solid 70% tenant retention rate.
We improved in-service occupancy to 94.2% and grew same property NOI 3.7%.
We commence 666 million in new development starts acquired over 540 million of industrial properties and completed nearly 930 million in dispositions.
We issued 500 million of unsecured debt at a weighted average yield interest rate of 3.8% as well as executed $250 million term loan at a currently rate of about 1.5%.
We redeemed $178 million of our 8.375% Series O Preferred Shares and we raised 669 million of common equity during the year which we used to fund our development pipeline and significantly improve our overall leverage profile.
The strong performance in 2013 accomplished the final leg of our strategic plan laid out to you over four years ago as follows.
We achieved our asset repositioning to 60% industrial 25% suburban office and 15% medical office on an NOI basis and today we have a best-in-class portfolio in each of our product types.
Over the last four years our team also executed flawlessly on the operational segment of the strategic plan improving in-service occupancy over 800 basis points to over 94% including the achievement of over 117 million square feet of total leasing activity since we embarked on the strategy.
We deposed of roughly $3.3 billion of non-core primarily suburban office properties and recycled $3 billion of capital into acquisitions of an extremely high quality portfolio of primarily bulk industrial facilities in key distribution markets around the country.
Also on the asset side we started about $1.5 billion in new projects since 2009.
Most important the asset recycling has had a positive return for our shareholders in terms of AFFO as we have grown our AFFO per share each year again consistent with what we outlined over four years ago.
We also improved balance sheet metrics since 2009 with debt plus preferred EBITDA improved by roughly 80 basis point and fix charge coverage improved by nearly 50 basis points.
The score card in executing strategic plans speaks to itself.
We have achieved the compounded average growth rate on AFFO per share of nearly 6% since 2010.
This transforming -- transformative plan has been a success for our stakeholders and the company’s future opportunities and strategic direction are equally bright which we will touch on in a moment in connection with our 2014 expectations.
I will now discuss the overall market conditions we're experiencing and how this is affecting our business.
Recent GDP reports indicate we are breaking out of the sub 2% to 2.5% growth we have experienced for the last two years with 2014 consensus GDP growth in the 3% range.
This would be a nice boost to an already strong real estate fundamental picture across all of our product types and in most markets.
Starting on the industrial side all leading indicators across trucking rail ISM retail sales e-commerce have continued to show growth which bodes well for strong leasing fundamentals and development opportunities.
Preliminary fourth quarter market reports depict one of the best quarters on record with nearly 45 million square feet of net absorption.
This is a level not seen since 2007 and contribute significant 40 basis point drop in the national industrial vacancy rates during the quarter to an overall mid to high 7% range according to a number of sources.
The PPR54 Index also reported market rent growth for the fourth quarter up nearly 4% on a year-over-year basis.
These positive statistics are not surprising to us and there are representative of the positive results were experienced in our portfolio.
With respect to leasing in our in-service portfolio all the five of our 22 industrial markets are over 90% leased and 15 or over 95% lease with an overall occupancy level of 95.3%.
We finish with strongest quarter of industrial leasing in history of the company with total leasing of 10.1 million square feet nearly 3 million square feet above the previous record.
Rents on the industrial renewal leases grew nearly 5% for the quarter and nearly 4.5% for the full year and with continued strong demand for modern space and moderate supply we are optimistic about improving rent growth picture for 2014.
As noted last quarter we believe we have additional upside in overall industrial occupancy and coupled with contractual rent escalations and improving rent growth supports a very solid same property growth outlook that Mark will discuss in a moment.
The medical office business continues to benefit ongoing legislative changes in the industry hospital consolidation is happening at a strong pace and physician practices are being sold to major hospital systems.
Even with trepidations on the launch of the Affordable Care Act health systems continued to have aggressive plans to invest in modern outpatient facilities.
This is driving strong demand in our medical office business.
In 2013 we started nearly 180 million of healthcare development projects with a lease term yield averaging above 8.7% and our premium MOB development franchise has a strong backlog of potential projects we are working on now.
Overall the medical office business has tremendous growth prospects.
Finally the suburban office sector has continued to show more positive trends.
Although the national vacancies are still in the mid teens net absorption stayed positive for the 15th consecutive quarter.
We see continued strength in our portfolio and in the context of our active disposition program our quarterly average same property occupancy is up 240 basis points over last year.
I'm pleased to announce that four of our eight markets Raleigh South Florida Indianapolis and Nashville have achieved occupancies in the 92% to 95% range.
Regarding office land positions over the last two years we've had outstanding success at winning corporate build to suite deals and also commencing substantially pre-leased or speculative development opportunities in select market such as Houston and Raleigh monetizing much of this land.
These opportunistic office developments have produced very strong 9% to 10% stabilized yields representing excellent value creation for our share.
So now I will turn it over to Jim Connor to give a little more color on our leasing activity and the development pipeline.
Thanks Denny.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned we had a record fourth quarter in leasing.
We did over 11 million square feet of leasing.
We also commenced a record 362 million square feet of new development starts.
I will start with the leasing side our overall in-service occupancy increased 70 basis points from last quarter to 92 -- 94.2%.
Leasing activity on the industrial side was terrific.
We signed a record 10.1 million square feet of leases during the quarter and increased our industrial in-service occupancy from 94.6% at the end of the third quarter to 95.3% at year end.
I’ll hit some of the highlights around the local markets starting with Indianapolis.
We are seeing significant increase in customer demand in both the northwest and the airport submarkets.
We signed a 312 000 square foot new lease and 270 000 square foot renewal with a major tenant in park 100 Business Park.
We signed the 343 000 square foot new lease at our recently delivered and some spec project which brings that to 60% leased.
In Indianapolis we also executed an 800 000 foot renewal combined with a 200 000 square foot expansion for client of ours had shared books in our Lebanon Business Park.
Couple of other notable deals around the system and new lease for 240 000 square feet with Amazon they took 100% of our Houston spec/industrial project.
We also signed a 320 000 square foot new lease with Rock Tenn in our World Park 3 project in Cincinnati.
There are also quite a few new leases signed in connection with build-to-suit developments which I'll touch on in just a moment.
Turning to the office side.
Our overall in-service occupancy in the office portfolio at quarter end was 87.8% that’s up 60 basis points from the previous quarter and up 150 basis points over the prior year.
Overall leasing activity for 2013 was strong at 4.5 million square feet signed and over 1 million square feet increase from 2012 and this was accomplished with a 60% smaller portfolio I might add.
For the fourth quarter we signed over 800 000 square feet of deals including a few notable ones in Cincinnati and 81 000 square foot lease on 11-year term for HSS Systems and 59 000 square foot renewal for FRCH worldwide for the seven-year term.
Turning to the medical side our medical office portfolio continues to produce very strong results with over 925 000 square feet of leases signed during the year.
We ended the year with occupancy at 93.7%.
That’s 230 basis point improvement over year end 2012.
Now I’ll turn to the development business.
In 2013 we started 26 new projects totaling $660 million -- excuse me $666 million in projected stabilized cost.
That’s an excellent year and exceeded even our expectations going in from the beginning of the year.
For the fourth quarter we started 362 million of primarily industrial build-to-suits as well as three medical office projects totaling 4.3 million square feet with a weighted average gap yield of 8%.
Early in the quarter we broke ground on a 1 million square foot build-to-suit for Amazon at Chesapeake Commerce Center at the port of Baltimore.
This is a deal we mentioned on our last call.
We also started two build-to-suit projects in our joint venture AllPoints Midwest in Indianapolis.
One transaction was 1.1 million square feet the other was 614 000 square feet both with major national retailers.
In Atlanta we started two build-to-suit facilities totaling 480 000 square feet one for HH Gregg appliances and the other for Federal Express.
Our final industrial build-to-suit was of 300 000 square foot distribution facility in our Gateway North park in Minneapolis for Ruan Transportation.
In addition to the industrial build-to-suits we started one industrial speculative project in our Linden New Jersey that’s a Brownfield redevelopment site just south of Newark International Airport.
We monetized 24 acres of land that we had just acquired out of joint venture that we had a 50% interest in.
That will support that 494 000 square foot modern bulk facility and just a couple of comments about that market.
This is a submarket.
The total is about 45 million square feet with vacancies under 9%.
Finally we started three medical office projects totaling 197 000 square feet.
Two of these projects were with existing hospital system relationships we have with Ascension and Centerre.
The third was a new relationship in New Jersey with Palisades Medical Group.
These facilities are located in Indiana Tennessee and New Jersey respectively.
Three projects are 79% pre-leased with terms -- with lease terms ranging from 7 to 15 years.
Including this very strong fourth quarter activity our development pipeline at year end is over $610 million with a weighted average stabilized initial cash yield of 7.7% and a gap yield of 8.4% and is 89% pre-leased in the aggregate.
This development pipeline is one of the key value creation drivers for us at this point in the economic cycle with development spread approximating 150 to 200 basis points above market cap rates.
This is an excellent investment focus and with such high pre-leased percentage the news lease revenue is immediately accretive when the building is complete and put in service.
Just a quick note on the supply outlook for the industrial sector.
Spec projects in our markets for the -- totaling for the fourth quarter of 2013 ended the year at just under 53 million square feet.
This is an 11 million square foot increase over the third quarter of 2013.
However during that same period of time leasing increased 3.2 million square feet at year end.
We saw the percentage of leased -- the percentage leased of this spec inventory increased by just under 8% to 22.21% overall.
In this context that we've alluded to on the previous earning calls we think supplies has relatively disciplined and essentially in all of these markets in this cycle compared to historical levels.
We’re monitoring this activity closely but feel comfortable right now.
Given our entitled land positions which can support approximately 50 million square feet of bulk industrial development and given our relationships and track records at winning major build-to-suits with top customers our development platform is in a dominant position to drive strong risk-adjusted growth through the cycle.
I'll now turn it back over to Denny to talk a little bit about our asset recycling activities.
Thanks Jim.
During the fourth quarter we acquired two industrial facilities totaling nearly 1.2 million square feet or $73 million bringing the total executed acquisitions to $545 million for the year.
On the disposition side proceeds from asset and land sales for the fourth quarter were $412 million and $19 million respectively.
For the full year proceeds from asset and land sales were $877 million and $52 million respectively.
With this activity we ended the year at 60% industrial 25% office and 15% medical hitting our four year strategic goal.
In comparison looking back four years ago we had 56% office and 36% industrial.
And I’ll emphasize today we’re much geographically better positioned and the quality of our portfolio is top tier.
Regarding the acquisitions for the quarter we bought only two assets.
Both were industrial assets one in Chicago and one in Miami that we bought from users in sale leaseback transactions.
These properties require below-market valuations with leases that have solid annual rent escalations that will produce future same property growth.
Turning to disposition transactions.
During the quarter we closed on a series of transactions encompassing 11 suburban office assets and 15 medical office facility deals which we've been discussing with you since mid-2013.
Our ownership share of the suburban office disposition represented about 1.5 million square feet and totaled $192 million in aggregate sales price whereas the medical portfolio encompassed about 750 000 square feet and totaled $210 million in aggregate sales price.
Both the medical office and Midwest suburban office dispositions that closed in the fourth quarter represent most of the disposition pipeline we set out to sell last year.
For various reasons a few of these transactions are spilling over into 2014 as we expected.
About 60 million of which have already closed so far in January.
In addition there are number of disposition transactions in process which means we should get off to a strong start in 2014.
Finally regarding the land sales component of our dispositions for the quarter we sold $19 million and for the year we sold $52 million achieving the top end of our expectations and realizing about 20% gain to our book basis.
Coupled with development starts the aggregate amount of land monetized in 2013 was $114 million.
So now I'll turn the call over to Mark to discuss the financial results capital plan and our 2014 plan.
Thanks Denny.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I’d like to recap our 2013 financial performance and progress on our capital strategy.
I'm pleased to report that core FFO for the quarter was $0.29 per share up from $0.28 per share in the third quarter.
The improvement in Core FFO for the quarter was driven by continued stronger operational performance as evidence by increased occupancy and same property results as well as due to the earnings from new development projects that were placed in service.
We reported core FFO of $1.10 per share for the full year compared to a $1.2 per share for 2012.
We’re extremely pleased to report AFFO of $0.90 per share for the full year and $0.21 per share for the fourth quarter of ‘13.
AFFO per share for the full year represents a nearly 10% improvement over 2012 results and translates into a very conservative payout ratio of slightly below 76%.
In addition the increased earnings is reflected within core FFO the growth in AFFO over 2012 was the result of our asset repositioning efforts as our concentration in less capital intensive bulk industrial assets have steadily increased over the last two years.
Our same property growth was strong for the year and reached the top end of our expectations.
Same property NOI for the 3 and 12 months ended December 31 was a positive 2.3% and positive 3.7% respectively.
Continued occupancy increases contractual rent escalations and improving rental rate growth on expirations drove the solid performance.
Our growth from net effective rent on renewals was 5.1% for the fourth quarter and 3.1% for the full year driven in large part due to the rental growth across all product types.
We expect this trend to continue as rental rates continue to grow in all product types in our markets.
I would also like to remind everyone that the occupancy percentages we quote are on a lease signed basis.
This means that not all of this increase leasing activity has actually commenced and started paying rent.
So we have some cash flow upsides here in addition to further leasing that we can do.
In summary our operational performance continued to improve over the last year and we expect continued solid operating fundamentals moving into 2014.
Now I will quickly recap capital transactions for the quarter and for the full year.
As previously announced in December we refinanced $250 million of unsecured bonds which had a stated rate of 5.4% and an effective rate of 6.3% with a new 3.875% $250 million issuance that’s due in 2021.
This seven plus year issuance fits well within our future maturities and essentially covers us on all debt maturities until 2015.
Including this transaction we issued $750 million of unsecured debt during the full year of ’13 of which $500 million is fixed in an average effective interest rate of 3.8% and $250 million represents a five-year term loan that bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.35%.
During 2013 we repaid $675 million of higher rate unsecured bonds which had an effective interest rate of 6.4%.
We also repaid 12 secured loans totaling $154 million which had a weighted average effective rate of 5.5%.
Looking back to February of 2013 we redeemed $178 million of 8.375% Series O Preferred Shares which resulted in a $3.7 million quarterly reduction of preferred dividends.
Following our $41.4 million share equity offering that raised $572 million in January of ‘13 we opportunistically used our ATM program issuing 4.8 million shares of common stock at an average price of $16.67 per share which generated net proceeds of approximately $78 million for the year.
We all see building and land disposition proceeds as an additional source of funding for a new development.
Proceeds from dispositions including our share of joint venture sells totaled $431 million for the quarter and $929 million for the year.
We expect a strong pace of disposition activity to continue in 2014 which will allow us to fund our development pipeline while still improving upon our key leverage metrics.
We ended the year with $88 million outstanding on the line of credit.
We expect to pay this line down further in 2014 using the proceeds from near-term dispositions.
We have no individual debt maturities of any significance until February of 2015.
We also achieved improvements in our key leverage metrics during the fourth quarter reporting a fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.1 times for the rolling 12-months ended 12/31/13 compared to 2.0 times for the rolling 12-months ended September 30th of 2013.
Fixed charge coverage for just the fourth quarter was 2.3 times demonstrating our continued improving leverage profile.
Net debt plus preferred to EBITDA after pro forma adjustments for dispositions acquisitions and the impact of our development pipeline was 7.7 times for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Reduced leverage improved operational performance and the impact of development deliveries drove this result which is favorable compared to net debt plus preferred to EBITDA of 8.9 times back in the fourth quarter of 2012.
These improvements to our key leverage metrics as I’ve said in the last couple of quarters are partially due to completing development projects where we’ve incurred significant costs without realizing the earnings.
Because of our development projects under construction are currently 89% pre-leased in the aggregate we will continued to realize improvements to our key credit metrics as projects continue to come online.
With no debt maturities of any significance in 2014 our much improved balance sheet anticipated disposition proceeds and virtually untapped line of credit we are well-positioned for future growth heading into 2014.
Now turning to our 2014 outlook yesterday we announced a range for 2014 FFO per share of $1.11 to $1.19 with a midpoint of a $1.15 per share and AFFO per share of $0.91 to $0.97 with a midpoint of $0.94 per share.
This guidance supports what we've been saying for the past four years that our asset repositioning strategy would not be dilutive on a cash flow basis and would ultimately put the company on an upward plain of growth which is now occurring.
First from a macro outlook perspective we expect a slightly improved economic environment in 2014 and continued solid real estate fundamentals which are reflected in our guidance.
A few specifics on some of the anticipated key performance metrics outlined on the 2014 range of estimates page provided on our website are as follows.
Our average in-service portfolio occupancy range for 2014 is expected to be 93.25% to 94.75%.
The midpoint of which would be about 70 basis points better than our average 2013 numbers.
Lease expirations are slightly below average at 8%.
Same-property NOI is projected to grow at a range of 2.0% to 4.0%.
As noted we expect some incremental occupancy growth as well as continued improvement in rental rates.
On the capital recycling front we project proceeds from building dispositions in the range of $500 million to $700 million and proceeds from land dispositions of $30 million to $50 million.
This range is inclusive of the dispositions that are currently in process that Denny mentioned earlier.
Our disposition program will continue to focus on primarily suburban office and our remaining few retail properties.
Acquisitions are projected in the range of $150 million to $300 million.
We expect to be pretty selective given today’s pricing environment and still focused on high-quality industrial assets that are strategic and accretive to cash flow.
Development starts are projected in the range of $350 million to $450 million a level that was partially impacted downward by the strong fourth quarter 2013 deals that got signed a little bit earlier than we expected.
These will be primarily industrial and medical office projects and we expect to fund our development pipeline primarily with proceeds from our building and land dispositions.
Service operations should be in the range of $16 million to $22 million consistent with our fourth quarter 2013 run rate and G&amp;A expense is expected to be in a range of $40 million to $44 million as we continue to realize operational efficiencies.
We close the year with fantastic performance and executed our strategic plan as outlined over four years ago.
To reiterate these 2013 highlights we grew AFFO per share by nearly 10%.
We grew FFO per share by nearly 8%.
Our leasing team executed 30 million square feet of leased transactions and we experienced improving rental rate growth throughout the year and ended with 5% growth on renewal rents in the fourth quarter.
We started $666 million in new developments and in the process monetized $62 million of land.
Our $611 million development pipeline is 89% pre-leased.
We sold $52 million of land at a $10 million gain.
We significantly improved our leverage profile.
We accomplished our asset target goals.
All of these accomplishments have positioned the company for continued growth as we head into 2014 and beyond.
With that I will turn it over to Denny.
Thanks Mark.
I would just like to thank the entire Duke Realty team for their efforts.
They were instrumental in helping us achieve the asset repositioning capital strategy goals that we’ve laid out four years ago.
It's pretty amazing when you look at the volume of transactions it took to accomplish these goals.
From an asset repositioning perspective over this four year period we’ve closed on average one transaction every eight business days.
From a capital strategy perspective over this four year period we raised on average $6 million every business day pretty impressive work.
In closing we have a premium franchise real estate company made better by our strategic efforts over the past few years and we are poised to drive strong and steady investment returns and create long-term value for our shareholders.
So with that thank you again for your support in 2013 and for joining us today.
And with that we will open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I just had a couple of questions regarding your 2014 guidance -- FFO guidance.
If I exclude -- when I look at it it says unexpected dispositions of about $600 million.
It will probably add about roughly $0.05 to your FFO guidance.
It seems high.
I’m sure there is some other moving parts to this.
I was wondering if could provide a little more clarity especially touch on -- are you capitalizing more G&amp;A and perhaps talk a little bit more about the timing of dispositions and development completions throughout the year? Ki Bin I’ll try to address some of that I don't know the math behind your $0.05 but a couple of things.
Our overhead overall is pretty flat.
I would say in 2014 versus ’13 we do expect to be a little bit more efficient have a little more volumes.
So we probably had -- we will have a little bit more G&amp;A capitalized but should not be significant.
That’s why our G&amp;A numbers are pretty flat from ’13 to ’14 in our guidance.
From development and acquisition and disposition timing perspective the way we really looked at it is we really wanted to able to support our development pipeline through being a net disposal of properties.
So as far as timing I would tell the timing in the yields the yields on development projects should be higher than the yield or the cap rate on the dispositions.
So that would be a pickup although the development deliveries probably be a little bit backend loaded compared to dispositions.
So overall those should probably pretty much washout.
I’m not sure how you’re getting your $0.05 maybe we can talk about that offline and go through that.
But that’s a little bit around the timing and yields.
So I think we’re pretty bullish that our yields underdevelopment it’s going to exceed the dispositions and then in that like I said we’ll fund that development pipeline through our disposition program and that’s why you see our disposition number where they are.
Yeah.
Just a couple points on that I think as I mentioned in the remarks Ki Bin I think with the closing that carried over into the early this year along with the pipeline we’ll probably get off to a fairly fast start on the dispositions for the year hopefully.
And then second even though if you look at starts from year-to-year and starts in 2013 on the development side were up some overall volume is not of as much as the start comparison.
So really when you look at overall development volume it’s going to be up a little bit in 2014 but right now based on our guidance since not up to that significantly from where we were in 2013.
Yeah.
That’s a good point and if you look in our supplement I don’t have the page in front of me Ki Bin but if you look at the first and second quarter deliveries of our development pipeline its mainly office and MOB projects.
So that's what will bring our development pipeline down a little bit quicker and have the overall volume in ’14 fairly close to ’13.
And so maybe just as a follow-up what cap ratio we expect on average for your dispositions in 2014.
And what dollar volume of completion should we expect? I am sorry the dollar volume of… Development completions.
Development completions so I think its really going to vary on the mix of our products that we sell on the cap rates.
Again it’s primarily the suburban office assets and couple of retail projects that will likely sell the last little bit of retail we have.
So I don't even really feel comfortable necessarily giving you cap rate guidance today.
But I think if you look historically its going to fall in the range that you've seen over the last year or so 18 months on our dispositions I don't see any change there.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Ki Bin.
All right.
Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Feldman.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Thank you.
So are there any Mark I know you guys said you think supply in the warehouse side is pretty much in check.
Are there any market or submarkets where you are feeling a little bit more concerned? Well Jamie I would tell you that that most of us use the metric in terms of the amount of spec space that's in the pipeline as a percentage of the overall portfolio and everybody tends to feel pretty comfortable at 1% or below.
There’s really only a couple of markets nationally that are above that.
Phoenix and Seattle are the only two and they’re slightly above and between the third and the fourth quarter we didn’t track any additional new spec developments announced or started and they both made some improvement in their leasing.
So they are improving on it so there is none that really worry us right now.
Okay.
And then I guess turning to office.
Can you just give a little more color about where you think we are in the cycle and maybe just some anecdotal evidence of what you're seeing in the market in terms of maybe its spreading to new market is it new types of tenants.
Just try to dig a little deeper given you have such a wide breathe of markets kind of how people should be thinking about where we are in the cycle and where it goes from here? Well I would tell you the our year end results are fairly consistent with what we saw through the third quarter and we talk a little bit about on the third quarter call and that many of the conferences when we saw each other.
You’re seeing financial services companies healthcare companies healthcare service companies a lot of retailers and food companies are the drivers behind a lot of the growth and the job the hiring that we’re seeing.
It’s a -- we’re seeing it across the country.
We gave a couple of highlights of some very nice deals.
But lot of that growth was made up of small and mid-size deals that are growing and expanding as well.
Okay.
And I apologies if I miss this but did you say for your same-store outlook.
What it will be for office versus industrial? No.
We didn’t Jamie we just commented overall that it’s going to be a net 2% to 4% range.
But I would tell you that it probably won't be a lot different because we’ve got while the occupancy growth on the industrial side is slowing.
We’re making that up in rental rate growth.
You have the inverse on the office side.
We still have quite a bit of occupancy growth.
We can get on the occupancy side even though the rental rate side challenging.
So I think that they should be really pretty close.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
Maybe for Jim or for Denny on the industrial side demand clearly pretty strong to end the year I'll be curious on your thoughts and how it’s moving into 2014.
The demand that you're seeing in January and maybe kind of the mix between build to suit activity and spec activity and development for industrial and whether you're getting more confident to put more spec out there over the course of this year.
Jim? Well I would tell you obviously we had a very strong finish and we’re kind of expecting a fairly significant falloff right after the holidays given everything we accomplished.
But I would tell you that through the first four weeks of the year we’re still very optimistic.
We've seen continued increase about demand deals that are in process are continuing to track.
So I think we feel pretty optimistic about the outlook for momentum in 2014.
In terms of development versus spec we’ve answered a lot of questions about that recently.
We’ve always concluded as long as we can continue to meet our development budgets doing really good build to suit development deals with credit tenants with good terms and good yields.
We’re going to keep the governor on the spec development.
We don't need to take that much additional risk.
We’re still getting great yields on the build to suit portfolios that we’ve reported.
Its much more creative for us as this portfolio is 89% pre-released as soon as it comes in service we start adding value.
So in short we’ll continue to pick and choose the places to do some spec development but I don't think you'll see us significantly ramping up spec activity.
I think it will be consistent with 2013 because we feel pretty strong that our build to suit activity will remain constant.
And we’re still see it even though we signed a bunch of deals in the fourth quarter.
We’ve still got new opportunities that have come about since since the holidays and the pipeline was pretty good going into the holiday.
So I think we’ll remain consistent on that on the front.
And then Mark maybe with regard to guidance two things does the guidance or have you contemplated I guess and talk about preferred redemption this year what’s callable out there and any land sale gains that you included in the guidance itself? Yeah.
Dave I’ll start with the land.
We don't include land gains in our core AFFO and our guidance was on core AFFO.
So I would tell you that the margins we experienced on a land sale gains in ’13 is probably what we would expect going into ’14 but we don't include that in our guidance.
Then from -- I’m sorry what was the first question Dave? Preferred redemption.
Well preferred redemptions yeah we always looking at that.
We know it’s out there and it’s fairly costly but at the same time it’s a source of capital that we don't have to redeem.
I think a lot of that would come down to what are our other opportunities.
And right now being a net disposer of call it $500 million give or take $500 million development pipeline that’s the good way to fund that in the short-term.
Yeah.
I guess Dave just to be clear.
Our guidance does not include any preferred redemptions.
Yeah.
It does not include that correct.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
All right.
The next question comes from the line of Josh Attie.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Just going back to the question on guidance it seems like more details and kind of asset sales and capitalized interest assumptions could be helpful.
Can you tell us at the mid-point of guidance what are you assuming for capitalized interest and how does this compared to the 2013 number? Yeah.
Josh I mean it’s maybe just a tip higher than 2013 but less than a penny.
Like Denny said our overall development pipeline on average in 14 is going to be about same levels of 13 because all these starts we started late in ‘13 our industrial project you turn a lot quicker the bill times a lot quicker than the office name will be.
So we have a higher development pipeline going into 2014 than when we likely will come in out of ‘14.
So on average it’s not a big difference.
And also on capitalized G&amp;A? Capitalized G&amp;A I mean you could probably look at it like this.
Our overhead assumptions are pretty flat from ‘13 to ‘14 and our G&amp;A guidance is well if I remember our midpoint maybe down a million or two so that’s probably the difference in capitalized G&amp;A give or take.
Yeah.
I guess I would add on the capitalization side especially when you have a very highly pre-leased development portfolio the capitalization is really at a very low low end because you don’t capitalize anything once the building the shell building is down and goes in service.
So I think our capitalization numbers are probably as well as they would be in our history is with this type of development pipeline.
Yeah.
That’s right.
And then… And so.
The other question was on disposition timing is that correct.
Yeah.
Maybe if you could just it sounds like capitalized G&amp;A and capitalized interest are maybe a little bit of benefit in 2014 but not a large benefit that’s the right way to think about it? Yeah.
Definitely.
D Absolutely.
Okay.
And then on asset sales at the midpoint of can you just tell us kind of that the midpoint of guidance what are you assuming for timing does the midpoint of guidance assume that they close midyear the midpoint assume back half of the year first half of the year? I guess what I would say is it's probably weighted slightly to maybe the first four months of the year.
In other words maybe first four months of the year includes 35% to 40% of the dispositions roughly because I think we’ve got a couple bigger ones that are carrying over potentially plus might that we would be marketing earlier.
But again it’s -- there isn’t any big lump in it I guess Josh it’s fairly evenly spread throughout the year.
And the cap rate that we should think about the average cap rate.
Well again I hate throwing this out because the mix of these things very so much but like I suppose you guys aren’t going to quit until I took that kind of number out there.
So again its primarily suburban office properties in various geographical locations various quality I think if we put out in place cap rate on NOI and probably the 7.5% to 8% range is probably about where we are and we -- than we think that definitely make sense when you look at this specific assets that we’re looking at so on this year.
Okay.
Thanks.
That’s helpful.
And then I heard your remarks said the increased development spending this year will be funded mainly through asset sales which implies that you won't need any new equity to fund your growth.
But you also highlighted in the press release and on call that you are very happy with kind of where your debt-to-EBITA and your fixed charge coverage ratios are kind of shaking out? And I guess I just want to ask to the extent that there was timing lags between asset sales and when some development comes online are you comfortable with some of those metrics moving around a bit and your comfortable funding the pipeline entirely with asset sales and not raising new equity.
Yeah.
Josh I think we are and like Denny said there will be some timing differences.
But I think it will probably work in our favor from the balance sheet perspective because like Denny mentioned probably a little bit more front-end loaded on the dispositions and a little bit more backend loaded on the deliveries and the spend.
So like I say keep in mind a lot of the deliveries that are going to hit us in Q1 and Q2 is already on our balance sheet from the debt perspective.
So we immediately get the EBITDA today goes in service I think that’s disconnect.
Okay.
It sound like.
And there could be some timing you are right but I don't think it's going to be a negative.
Okay.
Well -- the significant I mean when you are with the size of company that we have just the timing of building and putting in service and selling and paying down just doesn't have that significant effect on those measure ratios.
Okay.
So it sounds like where the balance sheet is today and kind of what your growth plans are that you don't need new equity if for 2014 to fund what you want to do? That’s correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Brendan Maiorana.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Mark the same store NOI growth guidance that you gave.
Just -- I’m sorry is that cash gap or is that two to four is that for both? That’s cash Brendan.
We don’t -- we’ve not disclosed GAAP.
Okay.
We’re probably not a lot different but it is a cash number.
So just kind of Big picture I guess I look at it you’ve got 70 basis points of occupancy growth that's probably about 100 basis point of same store NOI kind of year-over-year but at the midpoint the remaining 200 basis point is that kind of just in place bumps and maybe a little bit of positive spread? Yes both.
Hopefully it’s more than a little bit of positive spread.
Okay.
Okay -- that’s help.
So I guess the bigger question is do you think given that your occupancy is now at what I would characterizes is pretty stabilized levels.
Do you do think two to four is sustainable beyond 2014.
That’s a reasonable run rate or do you feel like that’s a little bit higher than average because you’ve got a little bit of occupancy pickup this year? No I think its sustainable specially on the cash basis Brendan I mean one of big differences at least in our industrial portfolio from say five years ago is the fact that we now over the last two to three years have really done good job of building in 2% to 2.5% ramp up and all the deals that we have which was really not terrified 5 to 6 years ago.
So as we continue to build those bumps in on top of the going in increase sale on.
And I think it is a sustainable number.
Okay okay that’s helpful.
Brendan.
Yeah go ahead.
Add one thing to that because even on occupancy we think we’ve got a little bit more in the industrial.
You have typically the bulk portfolio.
When the market start we can run it 96 you know maybe a little bit about that and we’re just below that now.
But also I think you can’t forget about our -- it's driven office portfolio.
Even though we’ve had some nice improvement over the last 12 to 18 months that’s still below 88% leased.
And again that portfolio we typically run in the low -- at least in the low 90s.
And so I think we’ve definitely got some -- some occupancy growth in that suburban office portfolio hopefully as we look out over the next 12 to 24 months.
Yeah.
Okay now that’s helpful and Denny on that it sounds like if you do $500 million to $700 million of disposition.
There is probably if I look at your retail portfolio I don’t know exactly what it's worth let say 150 to 200.
So you probably have somewhere around $400 million to $500 million of disposition on suburban office in the plan for ‘14.
Given that you reduced to that percentage down to 25% of your total.
What’s kind of left in and is it geographic regions that are just picking off some of the non-core stuff and then how should we think about the suburban office portfolio over the next several years.
So they continued to get little down even after 14.
Well I guess lets start up with what we have left and I’ll make some comments and Jim can chime in on what I’m not thinking.
But it’s oppose the Blackstone sales that we’ve completed now about two to three years ago.
You’ve got -- we exited completely and most a number of market.
So the suburban office portfolio is really concentrated in just a few markets today.
And give you the major ones it would be South Florida Raleigh Indianapolis and Cincinnati St.
Louis and DC.
But DC is mostly joint venture.
So that’s not significant and a little bit national.
So those -- my office -- our office portfolio investments is concentrated in those markets.
Quite obviously those markets are all doing very well.
As I mentioned I think in the remarks four of those markets are we’re in the 92% to 95% lease range.
Activity is strong in several of those markets.
Aand yeah I think what you'll see there's there are some I’ll call maybe larger non-strategic assets in that portfolio that we look to down size similar to what we did last year when we sold Cap Trust in Raleigh.
We still -- I think there’s some additional assets we looked through in a couple of the Midwest markets like Cincinnati and St.
Louis.
So -- but then as you know we started two nice development projects in Raleigh last year and we started one on some land in Dallas.
So I think what you'll see is to continue including that portfolio.
Generally speaking again I think cap rates are going to be better be lower on the stuff that we sell go forward and some one to stop we sold over the last two to fours years.
And I think you’ll see us do selected developments on some of that land we own.
So trending down probably in the overall percentage but I wouldn't sit here and say there is any major moves from like 25 to 15 or anything like that.
Okay.
That's helpful.
I got two more quick ones if I can.
Mark you guys mentioned that you monetized $66 million of land in the quarter but it looked like your land balance went up by $10 million or so.
I know you took on the stuff in New Jersey.
I think that was maybe around $30 million or so but what makes up the difference and why did the land balance go up?  Yeah.
So we did take on the joint venture land and the way you got to look it at because it came on our balance sheet and we brought out our partner.
The whole amount came on the balance sheet and moved.
I think the $66 million Brendan was for the full year not the quarter of the land for development that was monetized.
We did have a total of $110 million of reductions in land $60 some million went into development we sold $50 million.
Earlier in the third quarter we had acquired some land in Houston to do a development project so we immediately took down.
So you can't look at the balance sheet from 12/31/12 to 12/31/13 and see the $110 million coming out because we did actually acquire some land on top of that.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Let’s give it at 100% on the JV I didn’t calculate that in.
Last question you guys done a nice job growing the AFFO.
You've also done a nice job bringing your leverage where it needs to be.
Your payout ratio now on the dividend is pretty low relatively to where your AFFO is.
When do you revisit the dividend level?  Well I think we’ve been watching it.
I think you'll probably see us going forward and we’ve been very conservative on the dividend payout ratio.
We spent too many years during the downturn with that percentage be in over a 100 to ever want to go back there again.
And so we've really been pretty conservative on rate raising the dividend.
But clearly I think now with the repositioning substantially done with business getting better with our ability to grow the company through the new development process again on and monetizing this land by putting it into service.
I think that's clearly something we'll continue to monitor on a very regular basis as to whether we want to look at increasing it.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Adornato.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Jim I think you mentioned that build-to-suit industrial developments we are getting a 150 basis points spread over acquisition cap rates.
I was wondering what that spread has been historically for you guys?   You mean by historically like?  Like over the last  20 years?  Yes yes.
Well I would tell you that it's probably been thinner.
But that was as a result of a lot more spec space in the market.
I think we could all remember back in the mid-2000s when there was a lot more spec space available and that was putting some pressure on pricing which was affecting the yields.
But as we said earlier and we talked about some of the numbers we feel very comfortable that these markets are in balance.
So we're not seeing that same pricing pressure.
And a lot of the deals that we're doing a lot of these big deals there isn’t spec space available.
I mean you look at the 500 000 plus deals you can’t go to a lot of markets and find spec space available.
So a lot of our corporate institutional clients are forced to turn to build-to-suits and that's obviously a good thing for us.
Okay.
And so to kind of further that thought if the build-to-suit spreads are healthy for you guys and then presumably for others why isn't there more development capital going to build-to-suits in the market that is?  Well because we're getting them all.
Well I think we're seeing other build-to-suits too.
But one of the keys I would add on this Paul on the build-to-suit business is having the right land positions.
And we've always been very good in owning the right industrial land positions in the key markets.
And really when you look at the deals that we did last year substantially all of them -- I will say a 100% because I’m sure I have missed one or two in there but it’s substantially all of them.
We're on our land.
Like for example Amazon or Chesapeake Commerce Center at Baltimore.
Jim mentioned the two big ones we did at our AllPoints Midwest in Indianapolis.
The deal we did in Minneapolis in the fourth quarter was on land that we've owned.
So you really tell one of the keys is having the land position and having the teams in place to deliver that build-to-suit.
Well that was going to be my point.
If you look at the spec development across the country we're doing a little bit and our peers are doing so.
Some are doing a little bit more than others but spec development is predominantly done by local merchant builders who tie up the site go out and secure the necessary equity and go out and get financing build the building hope to lease it up and sell it and make a marble of spread.
They're not in a really good competitive position to chase build-to-suits because they don't necessarily own the land and they don't have the financing and everything tied up whereas we've got the land fully entitled.
We've got the construction leasing and development people in place and we don't have any financing contingency.
So we're really much better positioned particularly when you look at these large transactions which we've been adding at just a bunch of into our portfolio.
Local merchant builders find it hard to raise necessary capital to go out and do a million square foot build-to-suit for some of these big clients that we're doing with.
Those are anywhere from $50 million plus to $80 million and they don't have the resources necessary.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Paul.
All right.
Next question come from the line of [Aaron Isakson].
Hey good afternoon guys.
Quick question on the land value you guys have about $790 million land on your balance sheet currently.
If you had to mark that to market today what do you think that value would go to?  Well it's going to vary Aaron.
But I guess when you think back over the last few years that market value is kind of varied.
It’s been a little bit of a rollercoaster ride.
But when I think -- when we start looking at it today clearly all that land the values at or above are carrying value today.
I think in a lot of situations -- in certain situations a lot of our industrial lands probably were 25% more than we're carrying it at.
And even if you just look at some of the sales that we've done which is not necessarily from quarterly end but it’s still land as Mark said we have what a 10% to 15% profit margin on that 15% to 20%.
So I definitely think you could -- a very conservative number will be 10% to 15% value above the carrying value today.
Okay.
And then you mentioned on your range of estimates lands sale proceeds expected in '13.
I would expect that does not include the land you plan to develop on?  That's correct yes.
How much land do you think you'll monetize in development in 2014?  Yeah I mean we've been running it.
We went back and look there on about 10 to 15 year average between sales and development monetizing about a $100 million a year and certainly some years are higher and lower than others.
But not coincidently if you look at 2013 in total we monetized about $110 million.
And I think that's probably pretty good going into '14 as well that's combined land sales and development.
So you got call it $40 million $50 million in our guidance for land sales and then that would lead to $60 million or so of development to get to monetize.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Thanks Aaron.
Question comes from the line of Eric Frankel.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking the call.
Just a couple of questions on the build-to-suits.
Annual tenants from your -- are they exiting out of any buildings in your existing portfolio? I'm guessing Amazon is obviously not but what about the others?  No no.
None.
Okay.
Terrific.
Mark can you remind us under build-to-suit for Amazon and the economics that's around that in terms of customary improvements that Amazon likes to have installed into a new development?  Yeah Eric.
We in our development pipeline they have a right to basically pay for the what I call the above standard improvements either upfront or over the lease term.
If they chose a lease term it’s obviously part of the lease term is that are charged to them and it ends up at a higher return.
We closed the lower return because our assumption is that they are going to pay that off early.
So if you look at the development cost in our pipeline it’s got the costs in there to build the building with the higher above standard.
But the yield is the lower yield is that they're going to pay that themselves.
Did I answer the question?  Let me just add to that.
I guess I would say it’s box mixed to us because if we funded their payments are returned on over the term of the lease that is I will say roughly comparable to yield that we are getting on the project and if they pay it off you know they pay it off and we just take it redeploy back into the next development.
So it’s in the initial numbers but it really hasn’t -- we do not view it as having any real effect to us.
Okay that’s helpful.
I think the concern is just to make sure that investors aren’t capitalizing above market rent when they are trying to value the portfolio when its completed so that’s just what I am getting at… That’s what I -- that's why I wanted to say what I said because I think the way we are reporting it it won’t matter.
Yes because we are reporting the lower yield and the lower NOI that’s right.
Okay.
So when it’s completed will that -- we'll take a loan receivable in the above market portion that we are in? It is essentially exactly what it is yes.
Okay.
Great.
Just the next question on the New Jersey development could you disclose what amount you have actually paid your partner for the industrial land? Was it at the original value that you allocated to at the purchase or is it something different? Our partner wanted us to actually market that land and we marketed that land and got a fair value for it.
But I think as I recall I mean it was roughly equal to our original purchase price the fair value.
I can’t remember exactly but there wasn’t a material difference between the original purchase price of the joint venture paid and what we have paid them for their half when all was said and done is that your question Eric? Well that’s fine.
That’s fair enough.
I think and then just a quick question on the medical office portfolio.
As I recall I think you guys expected there will be -- get about $250 million in proceeds.
So is it just a reminder that the future buyer is going to close on in the next month or so? Yes.
As a matter of fact we have mentioned in the call -- in the script that we already closed 60 million all but one building was in that number.
There is one other building that are hospital actually healthcare system actually exercise their option and that probably because of some of ways -- they are right at first half that was probably one close till some time in February but everything else is closed.
Okay.
Great.
I wasn’t sure if that was suburban office or medical office.
Okay.
Thank you.
All right.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon guys.
Most of my questions have been answered just had a couple of quick follow ups here.
The 2% to 4% of total portfolio can you break it out just because obviously you have got a little bit better growth potential the occupancy on the suburban office like can you kind break out what’s your expectations are for the industrial portfolio? Yes Michael It’s last I said earlier on.
I remembered who asked the question really it’s really a similar growth.
So we are looking at 2% to 4% for really each product type.
On the industrial I would tell you that let just pick a mid point and say you are 3% about 1% of that 3% will likely come from occupancy like Denny said.
We still do believe we have some occupancy upside with the remaining amounts coming from rental rate bumps already in existing leases coupled with we reported a 5% renewal rental rate growth in the fourth quarter.
We expect that’s trend to do nothing but to give better as we head into 2014.
So if you are -- say 3% mid-point on industrial you got 1% of occupancy and call it 2% on rent give or take.
Does that help? Yes that’s helpful.
Second question just looking at kind of releasing trends for ‘14 if you look at the portfolio today where is kind of the mark-to-market on the industrial portfolio.
What I am really trying to get is what kind of acceleration should we expect in terms of releasing spreads in ’14.
We had good momentum in the back half of the year just wonder if you expect that to continue to acelate in ‘14? Yes the shorter answer is yes.
We absolutely anticipate the same kind of performance.
We have done some internal analysis and marking help me with some of the numbers.
But we’ve gone back and looked at the role in our industrial portfolio which again is a little below normal which we think is by and large a good thing.
But we have looked at the percentage of that role where the original lease that is in place was done back in the last five years of really a tough market.
And help me between 2009 and 2011? Yes.
Between 2009 and 2011 about 45% of the leases that are -- 45% of the leases that are rolling in ‘14 were signed between 2009 2011.
Right.
You know either the peak of the downturn or still in the recession period I would call it.
So on that 45% its rolling in that lease period.
We certainly expect significant rental rate bumps.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Then the final part just going back to our pervious question.
Several of your peers have been more aggressive in taking down leverage.
As you continue to sale down some of the suburban assets here you are picking up really good cash flow because as to your point its not necessarily FFO derivative.
Why not be a bit more aggressive in selling some of suburban office assets given the execution that you had in the fourth quarter and first quarter and may be using a take up prefers or take down leverage a bit more just -- while fundamentals are good right now? Well I think we have a pretty aggressive disposition plan.
I mean when you think we did about $877 million last year we are talking still pretty significant number this year.
I think we are more just very comfortable with where we are.
So one think I will comment on leverage though.
And Mark can chime in here.
Our leverages even without selling and redeeming preferred or paying down further debs et cetera.
Our leverage metrics are going to get much-much better because of this development pipeline and the way we funded it and our coverage ratios will continue to improve.
So we – you will still see fairly sizable.
I will call it deleveraging because our numbers get better during the year.
I mean I agree with that Denny I mean especially the coverage metrics with deleverage profile.
Yes.
Yes.
You may not see as much movement in debt process and some things like that.
But from a coverage perspective they should improve significantly.
And in the same sense quite a bit of higher coupon debt relative to where you could issue in the market today given the compression.
They pulled back we’ve seen as of late in interest rates any impetus to may be I’ll little dip more active more active and kind of pre-addressing some of the damage you have next couple of years? Yes I mean Michael we really only have -- you go out -- you got to out the February of ‘15 before you really have anything of significance coming.
We have $250 million to there and we did the transaction that I talked about earlier in December and we paid $8 million premium to take out debt about eight months early but then of that $8 million we get about $3 million back immediately in the seven month period and interest saving.
So net-net it costs us about $5 million so not too significant all in we like to rate.
But the further out you go it gets pretty punitive to do those deal.
So we are constantly looking at it but just really taking another interest rate bet and we believe interest rates are going to be rising but at the same time when you factor that premium in and look at it on an all in basis it gets pretty costly.
Fair enough.
I appreciate the color guys.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just a quick follow up.
Your new rates on lease rollovers is really based on just purely renewals like it hasn’t been for a very long time.
I was wondering if you could provide some data on what your rollover rate was for new leases.
Well again the reason we haven’t done that in the past is that a lot -- most of the time or lot of time you don’t release the same space.
So it just gets confusing to do that.
You know you get a look at it goes confusing when you look at how much tenant improvement money you put in versus what the rates are.
So we always thought that the most accurate and reflective rate calculation of what’s really going on in the market is what we are able to do on renewals because generally your TIs are very well on renewals and I think particularly on the industrial side.
And we think that’s a good market reflective as we have and that’s why we used that.
So we up until this time anyway haven’t even really calculated that other number.
So you basically do not track the estimate your systems will basically track that status that is what you are saying? Yes because as we go space by space and its just harder to track.
Okay thank you guys.
There are no additional questions at this time please continue.
Yes I would like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
We look forward to seeing many of you during the year at industry conferences as well as hoping to get more of you at -- visit our regional markets.
Thanks again.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Duke Realty Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.
For the conference all the participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be an opportunity for your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
And as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Ron Hubbard.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you John.
Good afternoon everyone.
And welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and CEO; Jim Connor Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Denien Chief Financial Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2013 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our thoughts on the overall real estate operating environment and how this is affecting us.
Jim Connor will give you an update on our leasing activity and development status.
I’ll review our asset recycling activity and Mark will then address our first quarter financial performance and balance sheet activity.
We followed up our very strong 2013 with a solid start to 2014 on all fronts.
We signed 6.1 million square feet of leases in the first quarter and ended with overall occupancy at 93.6% overall which includes projects under development.
Rents on renewal leases for the quarter grew by nearly 7.9% reflective of strong supply demand fundamentals and improved pricing power.
We started a $108 million of new bulk industrial development projects.
Three of our five development starts this quarter are 100% pre-leased while two industrial projects we started on a speculative basis in Houston.
We made progress on our 2014 disposition expectations during the quarter by closing on $79 million of transactions along with several other transactions being in various stages of marketing and negotiations.
Now I’ll touch on market conditions.
Demand drivers remained solid and supply is still relatively in chat for the industrial sector.
We firmly believe the secular e-commerce story and the supply chain reconfiguration trends have a long runway and we are in an enviable operational and development platform position to take advantage of growth opportunities.
The health care demand drivers for modern outpatient space also has a very bright long-term outlook.
We expect the solid year of MOB development starts and further lease up of the existing portfolio.
The suburban office sectors continues to improved across most of our markets and we're optimistic about further lease up in the portfolio our three month occupancy is up over 300 basis points compared to the prior year on a same property basis which adjust for our sizable office disposition activity.
As noted on the last call we still expect some great opportunities developed office at very strong yields on the office portion of our remaining land bank.
Now I'll turn it over to Jim Connor to give a little more color on our leasing activity and development pipeline.
Thanks Denny and good afternoon everybody.
From an operational standpoint we had very solid quarter leasing at 6.1 million square feet as Denny noted.
Overall occupancy ended at 93.6% dropping slightly from year-end which was expected.
Most of the impact was from seasonality in our both industrial products into a lesser few lease by out.
Our theory remains very strong and we anticipate occupancy heading backup in the second quarter.
We did have a few lease expirations that were expected that push down our tenant retention from the quarter to 65%.
However please to note that two leases totaling roughly 500 000 square feet were immediately back filled with different tenants pushing our effective retention into the high 70% range.
Rental rate growth on renewals continues to improve across the portfolio with growth of 7.9%.
We continue to be very focused on pushing rents throughout the portfolio of the investment side.
Now I'll touch on some key activity within each product type for the first quarter.
The industrial sector for the quarter PPR54 index reported over 30 million square feet of net absorption continuing the solid trend from 2013 and a roughly 10 basis points drop in vacancy from the fourth quarter to the mid 7% level.
Most research firms are projecting for the year that demand will outpaced supply at two to one margin and we are seeing the majority of the demand in the larger modern bulk space.
I am proud to see our team has continue to win many of this build is evidence by the three new projects we announce this quarter.
The execution on external growth is a testament to our 40 year of reputation in the business having our own construction company and our strategic land bank.
With respect to leasing in our industrial portfolio we continue to see fundamentals improve with the completion of 5.5 million square feet of total leasing a level slightly above the comparable period from one year ago.
In service occupancy in the bulk industrial portfolio at the end of the first quarter was 95% 140 basis points higher than a year ago as noted a majority of lease explorations were short term seasonal deal and we expect to be able to improve on our current occupancy throughout the year.
Many of our larger industrial deals this quarter were in Atlanta and Savannah markets which are reflective to strong fundamentals in the south eastern part of country.
We signed six new leases and one renewal on these markets all between 200 000 and 520 000 square feet including a 10 year lease with [Mizuno] and 15 year lease with Brighton Best.
We also signed 240 000 square foot new lease for the major food service company in Indianapolis and a 250 000 square foot lease with (inaudible) Cincinnati.
Turning to the medical office this portfolio is in great shape with our in service occupancy at 93.7% that’s nearly 300 basis points above what it was one year ago and we have a weighted average remaining lease term of over 10 years.
The suburban office market continues to improve slowly with national absorption maintaining a positive trend for 16 consecutive quarters vacancy levels are down 40 to 50 basis points compared to a year ago and concessions continue a downward trend.
Our in-service office portfolio ended the quarter at 88.1% leased up 30 basis points from a year ago.
As Denny alluded in the opening remarks when adjusted for our active office disposition program the average same property occupancy for this quarter is up some 330 basis points over the prior year reflecting a strong performance in this asset class.
With regard to leasing we had a nice quarter of signing about 0.5 million square foot of deals including a 70 000 square foot new lease with (inaudible) in our St.
Louis market.
Turning to development for the quarter our pipeline is still very strong we started a $108 million of industrial build to suits and speculated projects totaled 1.8 million square feet with a weighted average GAAP yield of 8.2%.
And I know we had a solid pipeline of prospects for the remainder of the year.
Last quarter we announced a start up of 1 million square foot build to suit for Amazon in Baltimore this year we're pleased to announce the second build to suit with Amazon in the same park this time of 346 000 square foot facility that’s leased for 15 years.
We also started a 744 000 square foot project in our West Jefferson Park in Columbus Ohio.
This facility is a 100% leased to Bon-Ton Stores a major retailer for a term of 10 years.
In the Atlanta market we started a 257 000 square foot expansion of an existing facility for Dick's Sporting Goods at our Camp Creek Park near Hartsfield Airport with a lease term of 11 years.
We also started two speculative industrial buildings totaling 480 000 square feet in Houston in our Gateway Northwest Businesses Park.
The vacancy in Houston is currently only 5%.
Last year Houston had 1 million square feet of spec net absorption and over 7 million square feet of total net absorption in the marketplace.
A quick note on the new supply outlook for the industrial sector.
Spec projects in our markets for the first quarter of 2014 totaled 95 million square feet.
This is approximately 15.5 million square foot increase over the fourth quarter of 2013.
During that same period leasing in those spec projects increased by about 6 million square feet.
The first quarter of 2014 solid percentage leased of the spec inventory increased by 11% to 24% overall.
In this context and as we’ve alluded to in past earnings calls supply is relatively disciplined in essentially all of our markets at this point in the cycle compared to historical levels.
But we continue to monitor this activity closely.
From an overall development pipeline perspective at the quarter end we have 25 projects under construction totaling 7.5 million square feet and a projected $608 million in stabilized cost that our share that are 86% preleased.
These projects have an initial cash yield of 7.6% and a GAAP yield of 8.3% an evidence of our ability to create significant value through our development platform.
As they are being developed at an estimated 20% plus margin I’d also like to point out that at 86% preleased we’ve minimized most of the risk most of the risk has been eliminated on these projects.
Given that we have entitled land positions and we can support roughly 45 million square feet of bulk industrial development and given our relationships and track record at winning major build to suits with top customers our development platform is in a dominant position to continue to drive incremental cash flow growth over the long haul.
And now I’ll turn it back over to Denny and he can touch on our asset recycling activities.
Thanks Jim.
With respect to investment activity we had $79 million of dispositions during the quarter majority of the proceeds were from two medical office assets that closed in January that were part of a larger portfolio sale discussed last quarter.
The remaining disposition proceeds were from a flex portfolio in Indianapolis.
We continue to strategically reduce our portfolio our flex portfolio and are now down only 37 buildings totaling 2.3 million square feet across the system.
We will continue to be opportunistic in disposing of more of our suburban office assets particularly in light of the aggressive equity capital and cheap debt pricing.
We’re actively marketing several significant projects or portfolios and still expect to be within our annual disposition guidance with significant closings late in the second quarter and into the third quarter.
On the acquisition side this quarter we recycled a small portion of our disposition proceeds into a 407 000 square foot modern bulk solely located in Atlanta and leased to UPS supply chain solutions.
The facility is located just east of Hartsfield Airport inside the 285 Beltway.
This facility is a 100% leased with 3 years remaining on the term with rents are currently a little below market and pricing provided an excellent basis of $43 per square foot.
In general the acquisition market continues to be intensive competitive and given our strong development pipeline and opportunities we expect our acquisition activity to be highly selective and strategic in nature.
So now I’ll turn the call over to Mark to discuss our financial results and capital plans.
Thanks Denny.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I’d like to provide an update on our financial performance as well as an overview of the capital transactions for the quarter.
Core FFO for the first quarter of 2014 was $0.28 per share compared to $0.29 per share in the fourth quarter of 2013 and $0.26 per share in the first quarter of 2013.
Core FFO was down $0.01 per share from the fourth quarter of 2013 due to increased general and administrative expenses which were mainly driven by the accounting rules which require us to immediately expense the substantial portion of our annual stock compensation brand.
Along with lower absorption of overhead costs due to the decrease in leasing volume from our record fourth quarter of 2013.
The first quarter is always by far our highest quarter of G&amp;A expenses for these reasons.
We are still comfortable with our full year guidance of G&amp;A expense of $40 million to $44 million.
The improvement in core FFO per share over the first quarter of 2013 was due to improved operational performance and development deliveries as well as decreased interest expense.
Same property NOI growth for the 12 and three months ended March 31st was 3.0% and 2.2% respectively due to increased occupancy and growth in rental rates.
Same property NOI growth for the three months ended March 31st was constrained by increased snow removal and utility costs driven by the extreme weather conditions in many parts for the country.
In spite of these increased operating expenses in the first quarter we are still comfortable with our full year same property NOI guidance of 2% to 4%.
Also regarding NOI this quarter we introduced a new exhibit to our supplemental package which includes a breakout of NOI and square footage by market and by property type.
This additional disclosure should better assist everyone in valuing our company.
As Jim noted our growth and average not affective rent on renewals was 7.9% for the quarter with positive rental growth across all three product types.
We are optimistic about our ability to continue to push these rental rates.
We generated $0.25 per share in the AFFO which equates to a conservative dividend payout ratio of 68% compared to $0.21 per share of AFFO for the fourth quarter of 2013.
We incurred a significant amount of building improvements in second generation leasing cost during the fourth quarter of 2013 whereas our capital expenditures during the first quarter of 2014 were more in line from our ongoing run rate.
We are pleased with maintaining our continued strong operating results and now I will quickly recap our capital position.
We finished the quarter with $180 million outstanding on our $850 million line of credit as compared to $88 million outstanding on the line of credit at the end of 2013.
As Denny noted we anticipate increased disposition activity during the next two quarters which will allow us to repay our current line balance and fund continued development costs.
We are in a very good liquidity position and have no significant debt maturities until February of 2015.
In addition I am pleased to report during the quarter our credit rating for senior unsecured debt was reaffirm by Moody’s at BAA2 with a stable outlook and upgraded by Standard &amp; Poor’s to mid BBB + or mid BBB with a stable outlook.
These actions by the rating agencies are a testament to our improved overall leverage profile high quality assets very stable cash flow profile and continued focus on further improving our balance sheet.
I will conclude by saying that I am very happy to report another strong quarter and with that I will turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Mark.
Yesterday we narrowed our guidance for FFO per share for 2014 to $1.12 to $1.18 with solid results in the first quarter we set the stage for our strong 2014.
So in closing I will reiterate that we believe our team and our portfolio is in a unique position to take advantage of strong fundamentals in all businesses.
The value creation potential for shareholders is very high.
We thank you again for your interest and support of Duke Realty we'll now open the lines up to the audience and we ask participants to keep a dialog to one question or perhaps two very short questions.
You are of course welcome to get back in the queue.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And first from the line of Michael Bilerman.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is Kevin Baron with Michael.
Last quarter you mentioned that sales would be more weighted through the first four months.
Now that has been pushed back a little bit.
Can you walk us through what's causing the delay and then in regards to guidance can you comment on how that impacts FFO for the remainder of the year? Because it would imply a near-term boost in FFO just given the delay on asset sale dilution.
And then secondly has the shift in timing of assets impacted the timing of capital deployment laid out in guidance? I think we're pretty much right on we might be pushed back slightly from what we said in the first quarter but there is no significant reason for it just timing of marketing but I think everything is on track.
Obviously our FFO guidance considers all that considers the timing.
And again we're on track with funding the development pipeline and I think again a lot of that’s going to be funded with the disposition proceeds as we go throughout the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next we'll got Blaine Heck.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys just a follow-up on that can you give maybe a little more color on any packages you have for sale at this point where they are and what are their set type? Well again I think as far as asset type goes we’ve said we're mainly selling the office products in certain target markets.
I think the one asset I would specifically mention that I think has been out in the press is the 3630 [Pete] Street building and bucket in Atlanta.
We are now at the point where we're getting pretty close to selecting of fire for that property and we’ll be moving quickly towards the contract on that.
So that’s one of the projects we anticipate closing probably late second quarter.
Other than that it’s just a few different projects that are out there and I only want to comment on any specifically but we're currently far down the road with several of the planned dispositions.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then Mark can you give us a sense of what the impact of the higher than usual snow removal and utilities expense was on same-store?  Yes Blaine.
It was approximately about 60 to 70 basis points impact on the quarterly number obviously less than that on the rolling 12 month number more like 20 basis points and then all IN from a dollar now perspective on bottom line FFO it was just over the million dollars.
So nothing too significant that we can’t recover from for the rest of the year but it did have an impact on the percentage growth for the current quarter.
All right great thanks.
And we’ll go to Vance Edelson.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
So you mentioned pushing rents on the industrial side.
Sounds like you have a real opportunity here given the pricing power that's kicked in.
How much do you take advantage of that by raising rents even more perhaps at the expense of further occupancy gains? In other words how do you balance the pricing versus the ultimate occupancy that you'd like to see? Well I think that’s more art than science we do a pretty good job of tracking the deals and when they originally signed as we’ve talked before we’re now very focused on the leases that were signed between 2009 and 2011 when we think we were really at the trough in the overall market.
And we have about 45% of the leases that roll in the next 18 months fall into that category.
So we’re targeting pushing rents there extremely hard.
Most of our industrial portfolio is across the country are 95% or better so they have all of the leverage that they need to go out and push rents and they are not the lease that uncomfortable we’re taking on a little bit of vacancy given the strength of the market.
So that’s the process and I think we’re pretty proud of results in the first quarter that our guys have achieved.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then as my follow-up you mentioned that the strong capital liquidity out there might encourage you to sell more on the office side.
Does it make you any more likely to monetize some of the medical office buildings or are you pretty happy with everything you have there? We’re pretty happy with everything we have there.
There is still one building from the portfolio that we closed on at the end of the -- mostly at the end of the fourth quarter of last year that’s still hanging in limbo that should will likely I think close this quarter but other than that’s it so just one other property out there.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jaime Feldman.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks everyone.
This earnings season has been an increasing amount of concern over warehouse supply.
Can you guys talk about where you think we are in the cycle when you start to see some downward pressure on rents and which markets you think at this point are closest to being a concern versus those that really have a long way to go before we should even start this discussion?  Yeah thanks Jaime.
I think if you look at the macro numbers have been drilled down into all of these specific markets that we operate in.
Demand still outpacing supply we focused a lot and I share with the group some of the speculative delve with numbers those are the one that obviously concern us most.
I would tell you that we still believe that the vast majority of the markets and the country in general are in balance.
There is a couple of that makes and pretty significant moves the Inland Empire in Houston continue to lead the country with the amount of the spec space but quite candidly those two markets have done a great job over the last six quarters of keeping those thus the amount of spec space that is under construction North of 30% pre lease.
So a lot of good activity in those markets a lot of good net absorption.
The one that jumped that pretty big this quarter that's got someone watch this Dallas.
Dallas added about 6.5 million square feet of spec space there percentage of lease is down just under 10%.
So that's probably one that we've got a watch but in addition to that there is probably still five major markets around the country that haven’t started any spec development a lot of them that are 40% and 50%.
So on far we're still in pretty good shape we'll continue to monitor throughout 14 and 15 and see what the effect is.
And then along those lines how fast do you think the warehouse cycle can turn? And is it a six-month is it nine months is it several years? And what's different this cycle versus prior cycles that maybe won't happen as fast or maybe happens even faster?  Well first and foremost I think we all remember how tough the five years four or five years of recession were so lot of it is going to depend on self control clearly there is a great deal of capital and they are chasing industrial development today and that has worked its way into the speculated development pipeline but most of the market are in check it doesn’t take very long for aspec project is still on the show for those 8% under written yields to deteriorate so most people are still very cautious that’s why we are very please with the 86.5% lease of our underdevelopment portfolio we’ve got a few spec projects out there but build to see pipeline strong as it is that’s where the majority of our focus is and we see a lot of value creation there.
And I would add a couple things to that as I think I said this before it was things we are seeing and industrial space is with GDP growth and the 2% to 2.5% range a lot of our customers can take the time and do build suite in six to nine months.
We see requesting us to accelerate the construction with they are so doing build to suits which that sort of changes if GDP growth jump up into the 4.5% and 5% range and we just haven’t seen that yet.
And I think the second thing on the industrial side that we are seeing is a real and everybody is aware this it’s just the growth in the ecommerce space.
So I think that as Jim said in his remarks I think we've still we've got I think a lot going forward there in our portfolio but also just and a industry as a whole because that I think no matter what happens with the overall economy that's going to continue to grow.
But do you think the capital is different now like are we still I know early this cycle the discussion was that you needed equity to build and very few merchant builders to get out there it seems like that's change.
I think there is always capital.
Okay alright.
Thank you.
And next we'll go to Eric Frankel.
Please go ahead  Thank you.
Mark did you guys purchased preferred this quarter?  Yes Eric we had basically reverse inquiry and took down about $19 million space of preferreds for about $18 million.
So saved about a $1 million had about a $1 million gain before writing off the original cost.
So the all in effective yield on that was about 7%.
So thought that was an attractive transaction.
Okay.
And then Jim maybe this is for you.
Can you comment about the positioning of land bank and where it's is located where the spec development is taking place and if it isn't located in markets where there is a lot spec development how can you price build-to-suits relative to where spec wants to lease today?  Let me see if I can follow the question.
I can clarify if you'd like.
You want to know where are better land holdings are is that the first part?  The majority of land holdings yes.
On a book value basis.
I would tell you with the exception of Southern California and the Northeast we've got strategic land in most all of our office and quite candidly we sold those inventories down selling off non-strategic and as we started to ramp-up development in as you know for the last few quarters we’ve acquired very little land in the last few years so as we continue to work that inventory down.
We’ve got great land and remember we didn’t impair that land the land that’s held for development the last go round so those are really true yields on the build-to-suits that you see indicative of our original investment in the land.
And your pricing build-to-suits I mean are the rate that you are charging comparable to spec development are they lower or they higher I’m just trying to get a sense?  No I think we believe the rental rates that we are charging and the yields that we are achieving are appropriate risk adjusted returns or for build-to-suits versus spec.
And given our success in the market place in the yields as we said we’ve got a stabilized yield of 7.6% on that under development pipeline which we all know where cap rates are today that’s a tremendous amount of value creation and those projects we're seeing those are all over the country.
All different product type so that’s combination of again we're pretty good to build-to-suit business we’ve got our own construction company so we are still getting great pricing and we’ve got the right land sites.
Okay.
I’ll jump back in the queue.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
And we’ll go to Paul Adornato.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
With respect to capital recycling over the last couple of years there has been some questions or suggestions that maybe the medical office might be right for disposition in some form or another.
And so my question is have you given any thought to a potential spin-off of these assets since the spin-off of other entities has kind of gained some traction within the REIT space and that would of course solve the capital redeployment problem? Well Paul we really haven’t giving it a lot of thought.
I guess what I would say is we as you all know you know and everybody knows from what we’ve been saying is we really like the business we think it’s a good growth business for us.
Today it’s a significant piece of our business particularly on the development side but overall it’s still only about 14% or 15% of our business today.
One thing we did do is look at that portfolio from a strategic point of view last year and as you know we sold including the couple of that closed here in the first quarter in January we sold about $250 million of that portfolio.
So in our mind we’ve really recycled some and generated some very nice gains out of that portfolio.
And we’re going to continue to move forward on the development side in that business.
For us as we continue to really sell some of the suburban office it’s again another great place for us to redeploy that capital back into the development pipeline in MOBs.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Next we go to (inaudible).
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Okay.
You made a comment earlier on your opening remarks about it’s a healthy supply of maybe built-to-suit or spec deals you’re looking at to replenish your pipeline as you continue to complete your development.
I was wondering if you could give a little color around is there a change in future yields based on the kind of projects that are in the pipeline and is 600 million roughly the number we should expect to be at on a longer term basis?  Well I'll address the first question from yield perspective.
There is always competitive pressures in the marketplace.
But as with the deals we've reported and everything in our price -- everything that's in our pipeline.
we feel very comfortable with where are pricing is today.
One of the things and ties back into the speculative development that one of the reasons we're monitoring it so closely it's for just back to monitor markets where they potentially could get overbuilt and you'll see pricing pressures downward pricing pressure on build-to-suits as there are more opportunities in the marketplace.
So we don't see that today but that’s obviously concern out there in the future that we're all monitoring pretty closely.
And as far as the level of the pipeline I’d just had a couple of things.
[Kevin] We started about 660 million of projects last year our guidance was sort of 350 to 450 this year.
So I think you're going to see that the pipeline under development be roughly in that $600 million range give or take.
The only thing that might affect that I would say on the upper side would be some of the projects that we're doing today on both the industrial and the MOB side and then occasional office build-to-suits tend to be larger projects.
So if you land a couple of the bigger 1 million plus square foot warehouses or 150 000 square foot medical office building that pipeline might go up a little bit with those kind of projects there.
Okay and on very quick kind of accounting question I just want to double check your same-store NOI is purely based -- is on a commencement basis right it’s not on a sign basis is that correct? Yes that’s correct.
So if I look at your like page 18 some upside in leasing like in medical office up 200 basis points or so that’s not in your same-store NOI that was reported this quarter correct? No our same-store NOI is on a cash basis so basically it’s tenant paying rent and the occupancy figures on previous pages were on a lease sale basis.
Okay thank you.
Yes.
Our next question is from Dave Rodgers.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Mark could you give us a little bit of color on where you think current liquidity is and funding sources for the year do you comfortable funding off the balance sheet? And then maybe give us a little run down on kind of the trend in coverage and leverage metrics as you move throughout the year? Yes sure Dave.
We are basically projecting that we can cover all of our cash needs for the year with our disposition pipeline that Denny mentioned.
From a acquisition perspective I think our guidance’s top end was about $200 million and development pipeline at 450 even at those levels we should be able fund all that with the dispositions that we have coming out late second and early third and a few striking late in the year.
So really no needs for capital.
And then as far as cost like I guess I would say from a debt perspective since we really don’t have anything to do this year we’re really out till early next year with the next big debt maturity.
And I think that’s about a 7.5% coupon rate.
And today our 10 year borrowing rates sit probably closer to 4.25 give or take.
So I think that you won’t see us needing to issue any kind of new debt or equity to cover our events.
Our leverage profile should continue to improve.
It's always a little lower in the first quarter on a coverage basis partially because it’s some of those higher G&amp;A costs and things like that that I mentioned.
As we get into the year and the development pipeline comes on line and our G&amp;A costs normalized you will continue to see those leverage metrics get better every quarter as we go through the rest of the year just based on placing everything in service and just kind of normal blocking and tackling without any big capital transaction.
Great.
And one follow or maybe two follow ups I'll put them together.
The first is speculative construction projects relative to the overall pipeline.
Do you have a comfort level I didn't hear if you address that if you did I apologize.
And in the second can you address kind of development costs to maybe ex-land or what you're seeing on that side Jim? Yes we're comfortable where we're running now.
One of the challenges we have with as many of our markets that are above 95% occupancy as we have we have a lot of people in the field that would like to do to spec developments.
But with as many good build-to-suit opportunities we're focused on keeping that percentage lease of the development pipeline in the range that we kept it.
So you will not I don't think you'll see us ramp up spec development in order to beat our development goals.
I don't think we'll have to do that.
So we'll keep it at the modest end of the spectrum.
And from a cost perspective there has been a lot of numbers been around that construction costs are moving up into the 3% 4% 5% range.
I will tell you here at the very low end of that range.
I would tell you that across the country our numbers are in that 1% to 3% range.
But I think that's the direct result of having our own construction company.
So we're not having to flight competitive pricing with the GCs out there who are seeing the increase in demand enable to push their margins we’ve got our own guys so we're getting good pricing and be able to hold the line on material cost pretty well.
Great thank you.
We’ll go to Michael Salinsky.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
On the industrial side the moving pieces during the quarter ended the quarter pretty well occupied; any vacate during that we should know about over the balance of the year that would create some choppiness in occupancy?  I would tell you we don’t have any big surprises around certainties out there for the balance of the year on the industrial portfolio and big I mean 300 000 to 500 000 square feet we’ve got all those addressed and baked into the numbers.
And quite candidly we were very pleased in the first quarter to backfill a couple of those that we knew were leaving down in Atlanta and Savanna as quickly as we did.
Okay.
And then this is my follow-up question given the opportunities on the preferred retirement during the quarter as well as a strong bid you are seeing for the office MOB and industrial assets any thoughts on maybe advancing that selling a little bit and retiring some of those preferred just given the coupon on that?  Yes Mike we would certainly entertain that.
I think if -- a lot of its timing right I mean if we have the disposition pipeline accelerate a little quicker than we think right now and we’ve got the money suiting around we would potentially look at the redemption.
The one thing that was great about the transaction we did do like I mentioned it was a reverse enquiry.
So we are able to take that down at very favorable pricing at 7% effective rate rather than give or take 6.6% so it is something we look at but right now we do have a little bit outstanding on our line we want to get that taken care of first to make sure we have all of our best covered on the development funding.
Once we get that done if we had excess proceeds we would look at something like that.
Thank you.
And we’ll go to Blaine Heck.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
So there are some very sizeable industrial portfolios that are on the market or going to be coming to market.
Is that anything you guys would be interested in pursuing at this point and if so how would you think about funding something like that? Well I alluded to it I mentioned it in the remarks that things are pretty pricy right now and there are some I would say some portfolios out there that are float around some are good and some maybe not quite so good but I think it’s going to be tough for us to decide to do any large portfolio transaction here in the near future which is we are pricing as right now.
So I wouldn’t speculate I guess then Blaine how we would finance it but I don’t really think it’s going to happen.
Sure fair enough.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions).
And we’ll go to Eric Frankel.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just I guess add on to Blaine’s question if industrial pricing is getting so aggressive is there a thought of you may be selling some of your industrial portfolio is there something to fund higher yielding or better more value creation in your development pipeline? Well you noticed in the first quarter we sold some of our flex properties in Indianapolis.
I think we’ll continue to monitor in the industrial portfolio some sale of some of our smaller product type in all of our markets or in any of our markets I guess.
And I would say what's fueling that right now is we are starting to see more people interested in that product type.
So generally pricing is a little better right now than it makes may have been.
So if you continue to see that but as you know we're very pleased with the quality of our overall portfolio and some of statistics that we show in our regular presentations reflect that.
So we really have no desire today to sale any of that newer model involved because again we think we've got opportunities to keep driving or estimate for portfolio.
Okay.
Well I'm just wondering if there is price for you are a taker?  Well (inaudible) an offer Eric.
Fair enough.
I guess final question is on suburban office.
Are there any movement you guys recognize obviously pretreated special example I'm just kind of curious on some of the other suburban offices you probably than (inaudible) next year or two more activity is there?  Well I would say that we're pretty pleased with pricing we are seeing.
We were pleased with pricing we saw on some of that portfolio we moved later last year and still again have a couple of portfolios out there allow some individual assets.
So we're pretty pleased the (inaudible) we are picking up in the suburban office assets.
And I would also say the financing markets remained very favorable so that's also helping support the pricing.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we'll move to Jaime Feldman.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
So can you guys talk about whether you’ve seen any incremental shift in improving conditions in any of your office markets this quarter specifically? So I guess what I am asking is we know the recovery has been kind of slow and steady moving from market to market.
What other markets this quarter that have improved that maybe caught you guys off guard or give you hope for the future? I don’t know that I can point to specific markets one of the things one of the trends we are seeing that’s really started in the last quarter which we take as a positive sign is you’re starting to see buyers a little more comfortable and a little bit more interested in a little more vacancy.
I wouldn’t say a lot of vacancy in but 2012 and 13 we were pushing to get occupancies in buildings that we are going to sell above 90% really focus on the roll in the next 36 months.
And now we are seeing buyers that are interested in buildings that have occupancies in 80% to 85% range because they believe in the improving economics of the cycle and they are willing to underwrite that a little bit more aggressively.
So for us that is opened up some opportunities to sell from additional building that haven’t quite gotten leasing up to 90% and not have to incur the cost of doing so.
So that’s probably the most positive trend that I think we have seen.
And then what about just on the tenant demand side for space? It continues to be kind of consistent with the last couple of quarters we still are seeing the financial services companies the insurance companies healthcare companies healthcare related and servicing companies have all been good good consumers of space.
A lot of the deals that we have rolling in our own portfolio it’s not uncommon to we're renewing those users and expanding them at the same time.
So that's been a pleasant trend that we've been seeing for the last 6 months to 9 months.
And then there is no market this quarter that picked up from that trend like versus the last quarter or it's just going to consistent? I can't point to any one that comes to mind I don't if Denny… Well I think we've seen some good activity in St.
Louis Jim mentioned in the remarks we signed a big lease over there.
I think generally activity is picked up there a little bit in Cincinnati too I mean the rest of the markets they all very solid.
We're in the low to mid 90s in all those markets all those other markets right now.
So those markets are doing fine and we're starting to see a little pickup in a couple of these other markets.
Okay alright.
Thank you.
And to the presenters there are no further questions in queue.
Thanks John.
I’d like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at the NAREIT Conference in June in little over a month or if not we’ll reconvene during our second quarter call tentatively scheduled for July 31.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Duke Realty's second quarter earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Ron Hubbard.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone.
And welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and CEO; Jim Connor Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Denien Chief Financial Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2013 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I'll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments for the quarter and then Jim Connor will give you an update on our leasing activity and development activity.
I'll review our asset recycling transactions and Mark will then address our second quarter financial performance and balance sheet.
By all account the second quarter was a great success for Duke Realty and I am very proud of our team for their accomplishments.
We signed 9 million square feet of leases and finished the quarter at 94.5% in-service occupancy rate our highest level since 1999.
Rent on renewal leases for the quarter grew by 7.6% a level consistent with the first quarter and reflective of strong supply demand fundamentals and solid pricing power.
We started a $213 million of new development projects at solid yields and we made significant progress on the disposition front with nearly $300 million closed in the second quarter both exceeding our expectations as of mid-year.
We also opportunistically issued common stock on our ATM program.
We used the disposition and the ATM proceeds to redeem our Series J preferred shares into fund our increased development expectations for the full year.
Mark will touch more on this later.
Now I'll turn it over to Jim Connor to give a little more color on our leasing activity and development pipeline.
Thanks Denny and good afternoon everyone.
From an operational standpoint we had a very strong quarter with leasing of 9 million square feet as Denny noted.
Our total in-service occupancy ended up at 94.5% that's up 50 basis points from the previous quarter.
Our tenant retention was solid at about 68% and rental rate growth on renewals continues to improve across the portfolio with growth of 7.6%.
We continue to be very focused on pushing rents throughout our portfolio and in particular on the industrial side.
Now let me touch on some of the key activity within each of our product types.
With respect to our industrial portfolio we continue to see fundamentals improve with completion of 7.8 million square feet of total leasing including 1.9 million square feet of build-to-suit development 680 000 square feet of leasing in our recently completed spec projects.
In-service occupancy in the bulk industrial portfolio at the end of the quarter was 95.6% that's 120 basis points higher than a year ago and a 15-year high for us.
Compared to general market vacancy in our 22 markets our in-service occupancy has outperformed in the competition by almost 250 basis points.
As I noted we signed two deals totaling nearly 680 000 square feet that fill the remaining space in two of our speculative projects.
One in Chino California and one in Indianapolis Indiana that were both placed in service in 2013.
Also contributing to growth in our industrial occupancy was a new 300 000 square foot lease that we signed with Amazon in the Atlanta market.
And on the renewals side we executed three notable industrial leases between 200 000 and 430 000 square feet with Georgia-Pacific Home Depot and Coca-Cola in our Atlanta Indianapolis and Dallas markets respectively.
With the tightening of conditions across most of our markets and high occupancies in our own portfolio we've been highly focused on capturing rent growth as we've been saying now for the last few quarters.
I am proud to note that our industrial rent growth accelerated to 9% during the second quarter bringing our year-to-date average to 8.7%.
Now I'd like to turn to the medical office portfolio.
We continue to have positive trajectory with our in-service occupancy increasing to 93.9%.
That's a 120 basis points above a year ago and with weighted average remaining lease term of over 10 years.
The suburban office market continues to show slight improvement across most of our markets.
Rent growth is still relatively flat in most market but concessions are on a downward trend.
Our in-service office portfolio ended the quarter at 87.7% leased which is down 40 basis points from the first quarter.
This decrease is entirely attributable to our second quarter dispositions which had an average occupancy of 93%.
Now I'll turn to the development side where we had $213 million of starts across 10 projects in the second quarter that totaled 3.6 million square feet and expect to generate a 7.2% weighted average initial stabilized yield.
We commenced three speculative projects this quarter as we had alluded on previous calls regarding support coming speculative projects in 2014.
With our recent signing our 2.4 million square feet of speculative projects that we've started since 2009 and are now in service are 97% leased.
We've done a great job covering all of our spec bets across all of our markets.
The projects in particular we started a 144 000 square foot speculative project in Northern New Jersey in our Legacy Commerce Center.
We started a 324 000 square foot speculative facility in Chicago down in the I-55 Corridor which was a redevelopment site we acquired in late 2013.
You should also note that Chicago industrial market has been 95%-plus leased for close to five years and we've got a great leasing momentum down in the I-55 Corridor.
The third project we started was a 937 000 square foot development within an existing joint venture at our AllPoints Midwest park in the Indianapolis Airport submarket.
We are currently 99.3% leased on our entire 19.5 million square foot bulk industrial portfolio in Indianapolis.
In addition to these three spec developments we commenced construction on a 270 000 square foot facility that's 47% pre-leased in Dallas Airport submarket.
Our Dallas portfolio is over 97% leased and our team has been generating excellent rent growth in renewals over the last year.
We also executed six 100% pre-leased build-to-suit development projects in the second quarter.
Four of these were bulk industrial as follows: one is 486 000 square feet on our own land in Minneapolis in the northwest submarket; a 305 000 square foot development in Columbus Ohio on our land at the Rickenbacker Global Logistics Park; a 757 000 square foot building in the northwest submarket of Chicago; and lastly a 240 000 square foot development in Houston down near the Port of Houston.
These industrial build-to-suit projects have terms ranging from 10 to 15 years.
And lastly the fifth build-to-suit project was a 54 000 square foot medical office expansion with TriHealth in Cincinnati.
This represents the fifth development completed with TriHealth in the last seven years which is really a reflection of our reputation as a trusted provider and advisor a facility needs in healthcare industry.
Lastly the sixth build-to-suit we started in the second quarter was a 112 000 square foot Class A office project for Interactive Intelligence on our land in the Woodland Corporate Park in Indianapolis.
We simultaneously negotiated expansions and extensions of our leases with Interactive on two existing leases that totaled 272 000 square feet within that same park.
From an overall development pipeline perspective at quarter end we have 31 projects under construction totaling 10.8 million square feet and a projected $722 million of stabilized cost at our share that is 76% pre-leased in aggregate.
These projects have an initial cash stabilized yield of 7.4% and GAAP yield of 8.1% again highlighting the tremendous value creation being executed by our teams and our strategic land holdings.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn it back over to Denny to cover our recycling activities.
Thanks Jim.
With respect to investment activity we had $278 million of building dispositions during the quarter consisting of five transactions.
The two largest transactions were the sale of the 3630 Peachtree our office building in Buckhead and an office portfolio in Cincinnati.
We closed on the 3630 Peachtree Tower in Atlanta's Buckhead submarket a deal that most of you probably saw in the news late last month.
The deal sold for a Buckhead record $390 per square foot and our share of the proceeds was about $100 million.
The project was 86% leased at closing.
While this project went through some rough times during the downturn including a large impairment charge it ended up with a great result as we fully recouped all of our invested capital and made a nice profit.
The portfolio in Cincinnati was sold for $150 million or roughly $144 per square foot.
The six office buildings making up this portfolio were on average 16 years old.
The portfolio was 96% leased but I will qualify that saying that nearly 75% of the leases rolled in the next three-and-a-half years.
On the land side we sold $18 million of non-strategic parcels during the quarter.
In addition I'll note that combining land sales with development projects on our land year-to-date remonetized 350 acres or about $69 million of land.
On the acquisition side this quarter we closed on a 980 000 square foot modern bulk facility located in Lehigh Valley region of Pennsylvania and which was just completed for a purchase price of $73 million.
We actually went under contract on a facility in a full commitment structure in the third quarter of 2013 just after the project commenced construction and after a pre-lease for 100% of this space was signed.
Given the cap rate compression in this market over the last nine months we believe our acquisition cap rate was approximately 50 basis points below to date levels.
As noted on the last few calls the acquisition market continues to be intensely competitive and given our very strong development pipeline and opportunities we expect the acquisition activity for the remainder of this year to be low.
I'll now turn over to Mark to discuss the financial results and our capital plans.
Thanks Denny.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I would like to provide an update on our financial performance as well as an overview of our capital transactions.
Core FFO for the second quarter of 2014 was $0.30 per share compared to $0.28 per share in the first quarter of 2014 and $0.27 per share in the second quarter of 2013.
Core FFO was up $0.02 per share from the first quarter of 2014 as a result of improved occupancy and the negative impact of the extreme winter weather conditions had on first quarter operating results.
Carrying a higher base of operating properties through the second quarter also contributed to the improvement as our Cincinnati office portfolio disposition did not close until the end of the quarter.
Same property NOI growth for the 12 and three months ended June 30 was 3.5% and 4.6% respectively.
The 12 month number is reflective of current annual run rate driven by increased occupancy and rental rates in all product types.
The quarterly number is higher primarily because of timing of certain items.
As Jim noted our growth in average net effective rental renewals was 7.6% and we are happy to say that this is the third consecutive quarter that we've been able to report increased quarter-over-quarter rental rate growth on renewals across all three product types.
We are optimistic about our ability to continue to push rental rates.
We generated $0.25 per share in AFFO which equates to a dividend payout ratio of 68%.
Although core FFO increased $0.02 per share from the first quarter the increased capital expenditures that coincided with the second quarter's increased leasing volume resulted in AFFO per share being equal to the $0.25 per share reported for the first quarter of 2014.
On the balance sheet side.
We finished the quarter with $60 million outstanding on our $850 million line of credit as compared to a $180 million outstanding at March 31.
Building and land sales generated $297 million of proceeds during the quarter which allowed us to reduced line of credit borrowings and overall leverage.
We anticipate continued strong disposition activity for the last half of the year which will allow us to fund development and minimize use of our line of credit.
We also repaid four secured loans totaling $64 million during the second quarter.
In the process we unencumbered about $155 million of properties to enhance our financial flexibility and credit profile.
During the second quarter and in early July we issued 12.7 million common shares from net proceeds of $222 million.
We are using the proceeds from ATM issuances as well as proceeds from property dispositions to fund our increased development pipeline in the recently announced redemption of our $96 million in Series J preferred shares that carry a coupon of 6.625%.
The redemption of these preferred shares will result in over $6 million of the annualized reduction in preferred dividends.
Our ATM shelf that we filed in the first part of 2013 has now been fully utilized.
All of these capital transactions coupled with our operational performance resulted in noteworthy improvements for key financial metrics during the quarter.
We reported a fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.3x for the rolling 12 months ended June 30 compared to 2.2x we reported last quarter and 1.9x that we reported one year ago.
For just the second quarter fixed charge coverage is now up to 2.4x.
Net debt plus preferred EBITDA for the rolling 12 months ended June 30 2014 was 7.4x compared to the 7.8x we reported last quarter and 8.2x we reported for the rolling 12 months ended June 30 2013.
When looking at this metric for just the current quarter it improved to 7.1x.
We expect to see continued improvement in these financial metrics as development projects continue to come online and as we realize the benefit of the redemption from the Series J preferred shares.
We are in an excellent liquidity position and have no significant debt maturities until February of 2015.
I will conclude by saying that we're very happy to have reported another strong quarter.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Mark.
Yesterday we raised and narrowed our guidance for FFO for 2014 to a range of $1.15 to $1.19 per share.
This change is reflective of our overall strong start to the year across all aspects of our operations and includes increased anticipated development starts dispositions and overall leasing activity for the year which are expected to be better than what was originally anticipated.
As noted in yesterday's earnings release additional detail on revisions to certain guidance factors can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website.
In closing we're pleased with our teams outstanding operation performance and allocation of capital year-to-date which should set the stage for solid future growth and benefit our stakeholders.
So we'll now open up the lines to the audience and we ask participants to keep the dialogue to one question or perhaps two very short questions.
You are of course welcome to get back into the queue.
Thank you.
With that we'll open it up.
(Operator Instructions) And we'll go to the line of Jamie Feldman.
I just want to get your latest thoughts on just supply in the warehouse market.
How are you guys feeling this quarter? What are your thoughts on the markets that are the greatest risk and concern? And looks like you are ramping up your development pipeline even more.
So how should we be thinking about that? I would tell you much like last quarter when we talked about some of the specific markets there are really only a couple around the country that look a little uncertain at this point in time.
Dallas has unfortunately got a lot of questions.
Dallas had a huge year last year of net absorption between 16 million and 17 million square feet.
They're off to a great first quarter north of 6 million square feet of absorption.
That slowed down a little bit in the second quarter.
So I think there is a little bit of uncertainty there in the Dallas market.
All of the other major industrial markets Chicago Pennsylvania New Jersey Atlanta even the Inland Empire has largest development pipeline areas.
There is just a great deal of leasing and a great deal of positive absorption.
So I wouldn't tell you outside of Dallas we've got our eyes on any particular market right now.
And then I guess as a follow-up to that on the demand side.
What did you guys see in the quarter? Did you see continuation at the same level of demand? Is it picking up? I mean we certainly saw better GDP announced yesterday.
What are you seeing recently? I would tell you that across the board demand is up.
We're just compiling our own internal study of all of the spec products in all of the different markets.
But the spec that's out there in the second quarter we're tracking about 18 million square feet of that absorbed.
That's not true net absorption of the market.
That's just of the spec base that was complete or under construction.
Leading that would be the Inland Empire north of 9 million square feet of absorption so a big quarter.
But a lot of good numbers across the board so we still think the vast majority of the markets are in very good health and very much in balance.
Well Jamie our 9 million square feet of leases that we saw in the second quarter was really our second highest quarter for the last two years.
So momentum is certainly still out there with wind at our back right now.
Next we'll go to the line of Michael Bilerman.
This is Kevin Varin with Michael.
How should we think about development spreads going forward just based on the new starts and guidance? You mentioned in your opening remarks that yields on the new projects were 7.1% which is down from the overall pipeline.
So are the spreads starting to tighten to acquisition cap rates given either increased development competition or maybe higher construction costs? I would tell you that it is a competitive market out there.
And there is a lot of local developers that are in the markets.
There is no shortage of capital.
So that's one piece of it.
We've seen construction price still up.
I think we covered this on the last call.
We have not seen significant increases that some of our peers had pointed out which we think is probably because we have our own construction company so we have a little bit better handle on managing the cost there.
So while we've seen a little bit of compression on the yields.
As long as we're doing stabilized yields north of 7 with overall yields north of 8 given where cap rates are there is just huge value creation.
I would add to that too.
The product mix has a little bit to do with the decrease in our yields this quarter because a higher percentage of our development starts this quarter was on the industrial side whereas in the prior couple of quarters we had a little bit more office and medical office in that number.
So I agree with what Jim said.
The overall quality of the yields is still really there holding up.
Yes.
I think if you were to look at where yields have come down slightly I have seen substantially more cap rate compression in last two quarters.
So I can make a compelling case in spreads that that probably increased slightly as opposed to going down.
And then just one follow-up question is I just wanted to see if you had more clarity on what the new incremental sales are in terms of what asset types you're looking in the market out there? And then also how we should think about timing as well? Well Kevin it really hasn't changed much for us.
We're still focused on selling primarily again the Midwest suburban office assets with a couple of selective suburban office assets in the Southeast like we did with 3630 we think there is just some very opportunistic sales we can do right now.
And then in the second half of the year I mean you'll also see us selling couple of I mean just a little bit of remaining retail that we have left which is something we've been planning on teeing up here for a while.
The only other thing I would add is you might see a bit of selective pruning of the industrial portfolio also in the second half of the year.
And this will mainly be I would say the older smaller lower clear height type product that we have in a few of our markets.
The pricing on that out there seems very good right now.
So I think we'll selectively prune some of that.
As far as timing goes we closed quite a bit right near the end of June things that we've been working on for a while including those two office dispositions.
So the pipeline I will tell you is sort of getting geared back up right now.
So I would tell you likely the dispositions will be later in the third quarter and then throughout the fourth quarter.
Next we'll go to the line of Vance Edelson.
On the industrial side the development projects range in size from under 100 000 to more than 1 million square feet and just about every size in between.
So presumably you get a good feel for where the build-to-suit and other demand is coming from.
So can you share with us your thoughts on which size category you're seeing the most active demand? And how that shapes your speculative build plans going forward or is it pretty much across the board regardless of size? Well I would tell you that build-to-suit activity as leasing activity is pretty strong across all segments.
The one probable clarification I would make there are fewer large buildings available in the inventory either spec second generation out there today.
So the tenants that need 500 000 square foot or greater more of those have to consider build-to-suit and perhaps say a 100 000 foot prospect that was in the market.
But as you stated in the question we're seeing activity all over the board.
And then as my quick follow-up.
On the industrial leases expiring say over the next 12 to 18 months could you give us an updated feel for the portion that were signed during the recession and what the potential price roles might look like on those? Vance it's quite similar to what's been rolling in the last couple of quarters.
We look out about 18 months.
And of all of our industrial leases expiring over the next 18 months right out about 50% of those were signed between 2009 and 2011 and then the other 50% split fairly even between deals signed before '09 and after '11.
So the way we look at it the deals before '09 and after '11 probably fairly modest rent growth on those deals the deals signed in that '09 to '11 timeframe.
We're getting deals up into the high teens on some of those.
So we think when you average it out it's pretty close to the run rate we've been at for the last couple of quarters which is close to high-single digits I would call lit.
Next we'll go to the line of Brendan Maiorana.
Mark if I look at sources and uses as it relates to the guidance for the back half of the year it seems like you've gotten -- as I think maybe you or Denny mentioned in the script you've gotten more aggressive in terms of where the dispositions are coming out more conservative in terms of acquisitions.
Seems like a portion of that is related to the Series J redemption.
But is there a portion of it that you're using opportunistically to delever a little bit more? It seems like maybe relative to what you have coming in the door there's a little bit less in terms of what you need to spend it on.
Brandon I would say that if you just kind of look at the midpoint of our guidance from acquisitions and development dispositions where we have to go.
When your factor in the two large office dispositions that we had that closed late in the second quarter we probably have about a net I would call a $100 million of excess capital coming in the door.
So you're probably right.
I mean absent an even further increase in the development pipeline the way we've seen it we've really pre-funded a little bit of that the development pipeline as we look forward over the next six to nine months.
So that's really kind of what we've got it earmarked for right now is development.
And as that fix up or decreases that will drive how much additional capital we need.
But as we sit here today we don't really see any needs for capital for the next six months to speak of with any significance.
And just as a follow-up.
So the guidance there were a couple of sort of changes all around and you guys moved the range up a little bit.
I saw the same-store range didn't change and you're kind of tracking ahead.
You've got nice rent spreads and it seems like you feel pretty good about occupancy.
If you're 3.5% in year-to-date and you add a little bit of a tough Q1 with some weather issues is it fair to think that you're likely to be towards the upper-end of the 2% to 4% same-store range this year? Yes I think we can get to the upper end.
I think the first quarter was a little deceivingly low like you said for to weather reasons and then the second quarter is a little bit higher than our run rate for some other small reasons.
So you average it out that 3.5% on the 12 month is pretty close to what we believe our current run rate can be for the foreseeable future.
Now I'll caveat that a little bit with saying that we have had significant occupancy increases over this period of time.
And we're getting closer and closer to full occupancy.
Although we do still think we have some room to go on the occupancy we just don't know that it will be at pace that we've been increasing the occupancy by.
So we'll have to come down to the rental rate growth side.
And Brendan the other reason we didn't really change it is because that number can fluctuate so much based on our dispositions.
And we've got pretty good plan in place for dispositions but you never know the timing of closings in those type things.
So as we look at that we just select not to change it.
Next we go to the line of Dave Rodgers.
Jim maybe a question for you on the spec developments that you're doing and the spec developments you're tracking in the market.
It might be easier I guess if you address your own.
But I guess I'm wondering how much market rents are being pushed at the high-end by these spec developments.
I guess another way of asking that is when you're going to an area putting in a new spec building what's your premium rent that you're seeking or are you really targeting markets that maybe have already gotten replacement cost rents back from the recovery? Just a little more color on that would be helpful I would tell you without any specifics probably half of the markets across the U.S.
are there.
Deals are being done in existing space first and second generation to support the rents and the yields we need on spec development.
The remaining half is probably within $0.05 to $0.10.
And for the right users for the right timing for the right location that's not too big a premium.
That's why you're seeing as much build-to-suit activities you're seeing around the country.
And I think that's consistent with your portfolio as well? And you've been a little late to the spec game but I think that's probably been why there's a little bit more conservatism? We have try to exercise a little conservatism.
We can still remember 2007 2008.
But we had so many really good build-to-suit opportunities across the spectrum that it just hasn't really paid for us to take on much spec risk.
Now that so many of our portfolio industrial portfolios in particular are north of 95%.
There is some opportunities there that we need to take advantage of just to handle the growth of our existing clients in some of these markets.
So that's why you'll continue to see us selectively pick some markets that we feel comfortable where our portfolio is where rents are where absorptions are.
And we'll continue do a modest number going forward.
Mark maybe one for you.
I think we've talked about this before but I'll ask it again.
Given your comfort just more recently issuing equity on the ATM and given maybe some comfort going a little bit lower into your preferreds breaking that 6% 7% barrier in terms of the yield and buying back that Series J.
As you look at the rest of the preferreds I don't know if you commented on this already but if you would what stops you at this point given where the equity is given where some of these 15-year bonds are pricing out in terms of getting rid of the rest of those preferreds? Dave the biggest thing is development pipeline and the deposition.
We want to make sure like we'd said before that we've got all of our bets covered on the development side first.
And if we've got some excess capital and our stock's trading at a nice price then we'll look to opportunistically take some more preferreds down over time but with the disposition pipeline that we have in front of us we may have the opportunity to do some of that through dispositions.
We just need to see how that plays out first.
Next we'll go to line of Eric Frankel.
I'm curious if your development pipeline increases further for whatever reason how would you likely fund it? It would be through some combination of disputation proceeds or the ATM.
Like we said at the beginning of the year Eric our plan all along was to fund our net growth 60-40 60% equity/disposition proceeds 40% debt.
We've been able to fund everything thus far for the most part through the disposition program but to the extent that we still have attracted development out there and we don't have the dispositions to pay for it we will look to fund it through the ATM.
And I would also say Eric I don't think you're going to see that pipeline get much bigger than it is right now.
We kind of keep our eye on that under regular basis and know about where we want to keep it.
It's been running more in the $600 million to $700 million.
We're a bit over $700 million this quarter.
But I don't see or think you'll ever see it ramp up significant above that? It's just interesting that this quarter obviously as you've stated yourself you essentially pre-funded your increased development with almost all equity I thought that was an interesting move.
I think the only other question I have is regarding the leasing of some of the spec developments that came online in the last year or two.
Did those leases come in at or above pro forma in terms of rental rates? No they came in above pro forma.
The only differential is some times you underwrite five year leases and you end up doing 10 year leases.
But if you look at the net res across the term of the yields we're above the across the board.
Next we'll go to the line of Neil Malkin.
I just had a question.
The Cincinnati portfolio you sold can you give us a cap rate on that from I guess GAAP or EBITDA perspective? And then what it would be from an AFFO or economic standpoint like what's the spread there? And then also can you at all quantify how much around how much TIs per total CapEx you could probably take out of your portfolio once the majority of the suburban office dispositions are completed? Well I guess the answer of the first question is we really don't disclose GAAP rates on specific transactions obviously for competitive reasons.
That that is blended in with our overall cap rate or in-place yield as we call it that we disclosed.
But on the second question the difference between sort of the in-place with NOI cap rate and what we would believe is kind of a normal after CapEx.
Really as we look at our net portfolio it's about 150 basis points lower on a cash basis than on an NOI basis on a pretty consistent basis.
And that's probably about average or maybe even a bit low on the low side for some of office probably goes between a 150 basis points to 200 basis points from cash to NOI.
And I'm sorry the last question was? Well I mean I'm not exactly sure.
I guess maybe if you can quantify the amount that you could possibly sell and you have left to sell of the suburban office assets and then I guess we could actually figure out how much spend you could possibly be saving right? Because those are obviously CapEx-intensive assets you're selling? That's right.
And I think we if you look back probably over the last couple of years I think we disclosed every quarter pretty much how much CapEx we're spending by product types.
So you can see that.
And clearly the suburban office is where the higher number is as well as drop to the higher percentage.
And so that's coming down.
Again if you look at our remaining dispositions for the rest of year in our guidance which is probably $300 million $400 million at least 50% of that I would say is going to be in the suburban office probably a little bit more than 50% of it.
And we'll have a follow-up question from the line of Jamie Feldman.
I was hoping you guys could spend a little bit more time on your comments on the office business.
It sounds like rents aren't necessarily moving concessions are coming in.
Can you give a little bit more color in terms of what you're seeing on both the demand side and rent growth and maybe a little more granularity on the different markets? Sure Jamie.
I think as we outlined in the script there's not a great deal of rent growth in the suburban market yet but where we are making you some ground is concessions are trending down less free rent less TIs in particular going into the deals.
Better term is probably a big factor that doesn't get talked about a lot.
Office tenants in the last years have been a little nervous to make commitments beyond that three to five year period.
Now we're starting to see tenants making longer-term commitments which improves the economics of a lot of our deals.
Just adding to what Jim said I would say the Midwest rents are still pretty flat but I think we've actually seen some decent rent growth in a couple of the Southeast markets and we're not in all of that many office markets anymore but Raleigh's held up extremely well in both from a volume and a very stable and growing rental rate stream.
South Florida the activity has been pretty good across the board and rents continue to creep up down there.
So the suburban office market is coming back slowly slowly and even in the Midwest I think I would say I think our activity is probably up a little bit but rental rates probably are not.
Do you get the sense that maybe three quarters or a year from now we'll be talking about a much more robust office market or it just feels like we're stuck in neutral here in your markets outside the Southeast I guess? Well we love to be talking about that Jamie.
But realistically I don't think so.
I don't think -- we're not seeing the trends where you're going to see a real significant turnaround where you've got some substantial rent growth in the next 12 months.
I don't think we're that bullish on the suburban office market.
I think we'll continue to make modest increases in occupancy like we have over the last 18 months.
In some of the better markets as Denny alluded Raleigh South Florida even Texas those markets rents have gotten back to where they're supporting new construction.
I think the Midwest still lags behind and is a little bit softer.
And we do have a follow-up from Michael Bilerman.
Denny just on the Lehigh Valley industrial asset that was a build-to-suit that you had committed to take out from the tenant or from another developer? That was from another developer.
And what was the I guess this is just you were attracted by the asset or what was it? What drove you to.
Michael the Pennsylvania area and New Jersey are the geographic area we're trying to grow in.
And this was good opportunity for us from a group that we have our relationships with and like the price propound and it's an excellent building in excellent location.
So it's always good for certain private developers to be able to have it take out and they get that upfront.
A lot of times you get a bit better deal on it when if it's fully complete.
So we believe we did on that one.
Michael the only thing I would add is we have a long-standing relationship with the tenant.
We have that tenant in four or five other buildings around the country.
So we have a very high-level of comfort with them strong relationship.
So we think there is actually an opportunity to grow.
And what's that lease length like? 10 years I think.
Yes.
Annual rent growth.
So what is that? And what was your sort of going in versus the GAAP rate cap rate on it? Well I don't remember exactly but the going in is 6.
And then I think its 1.5% to 2% bumps for sure.
But I think closer to 2% on that deal.
On the medical office do you have any desire as you think about the acquisition market being pricey and you're continuing to sell assets and raising that guidance? Are you thinking about capping the medical office assets at all for proceeds? No.
As you recall we did about -- we sold and improved net portfolio at the end of last year about $250 million couple of those closed I think early this year.
And we've said at the time that that really -- we took advantage of the market what we thought was good pricing sold some assets that weren't as strategic to us as the ones we retained for hospital relationships or geographical purposes.
So we're very comfortable with where that portfolio is now and quite honestly there is really none of that in our disposition guidance.
And then as you think about just Mark on the balance sheet sort of the target ratios in terms of funding from here and definitely raising the equity certainly was a big positive in terms of funding and making sure you have the capacity.
I am just curious and obviously buying back the preferreds is going to help fixed charge as well.
How should we think about where you want your ratios to be going forward? From a debt-to-EBITDA debt-to-gross assets and the fixed charge perspective? Michael we haven't really set any targets in the sand like we did back in '09 but what I would tell you is this a couple of things.
As we look out towards the end of the year we fully expect our debt-to-EBITDA to be under 6.5% by the end of the year.
Our debt plus preferred to EBITDA to be well under 7% by the end of the year and our fixed charge closer up to 2.5%.
And then from that point on what I would say our plan is to grow the company to grow mainly through development and to fund that growth at a better leverage profile that we set here today.
More in that 60% 40% range.
And if we do that all those ratios naturally will just continue to improve.
And how much do you have left on the ATM right now? We are out of our ATM.
That actually you're going to reload then? I'm sorry.
Are you going to reload it? Yes I think it's prudent to always have it out there just if we need it to have it.
So you'll probably see us reload that some time in the not too distant future.
Let's go to the line of Ki Bin Kim.
Sorry if someone has already asked this question or not.
But you have had been a pretty much a net disposer shorter developments just on buying and selling for a couple years now.
How should we think about that next year? How does that dynamic change a little bit next year? Well I think Ki Bin we're now at the point I guess I'd say couple of things here.
When you look from here on out for the next six months to say 12 months we're still targeting some of the Midwest suburban office assets which are just not long-term holds for us.
And we obviously did some of that in the first half of this year and we've got some more that you'll see us do in the second half of the year.
And then we also are targeting just these couple of retail assets that we still own or own a partial interest in because those are pretty much stabilize now.
And I think the pricing will be pretty good on those.
So we're going to be get rid of those.
I think looking forward when you look around the rest of our portfolio including industrial suburban office medical office it's going to be properties that we really like.
And so I think you'll see as the more opportunistic and strategic on the dispositions once we get through a little bit of those targeted assets again.
And the dispositions will really depend on a lot of different things.
First of all what the cap rates are? If we think it's a really good time to sell we'll look at selling.
What our development pipeline might be if we've got a development pipeline and we can sell some older assets and redeploy the proceeds back into great new development assets we'll do that.
So I think sitting here today we don't really have any specific targets for a dollar volume of what it might be after this year.
I think it will be more strategic it's really based on market conditions.
I guess are you ruling out any kind of sizable dispositions or is that still kind of possible? Well I don't think it's very likely because our office portfolio is getting down to the point now where it isn't that sizeable.
So I don't think you're going to see any particularly sizeable transactions but I suppose something should come along but I don't think it's likely.
And just one last one.
Your service operations income I know we've talked about it in the past and there is other reasons why it's there and not just to make the $18 million a year.
Any change in terms of the right staff level especially as it relates to that part of the business? Well the staffing in that piece of the business is just part of our -- there is no separate staffing for that piece of the business.
We get that business really primarily I would say through our land positions.
And as you know since we've been around for a long long time and definitely since we've been a public company if we can make some money by selling some land and doing a third-party construction project for a customer who wants to own their building we're happy to do that.
And those are the same people that would develop a build-to-suit that we owned on that land or developed a spec building on that land.
So it's all part of the same group.
And I would say the earnings are probably up a bit this year because we had a couple larger projects that were exactly like that where we sold the land and entered to a third-party construction contract that have proved pretty profitable for us.
But again we've had this discussion over the years.
Our service operations are all there been very consistent higher obviously in the years we were working on the BRAC project in D.C.
because that was such a large project and has consistently stayed above 5% of our overall FFO and that's it.
Thank you.
There are no further questions in queue at this time please continue.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
And we look forward to reconvening during our third quarter call tentatively scheduled for October 30.
Thank you again.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thanks again for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference services.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience for standing-by and welcome to the Duke Realty Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session; instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Ron Hubbard.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Mala.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and CEO; Jim Connor Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Denien Chief Financial Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2013 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments for the quarter and then Jim Connor will give you an update on our leasing and development activity.
I’ll review our asset recycling transactions and Mark will then address our third quarter financial performance and balance sheet.
I have to say that the third quarter of 2014 was one of Duke Realty’s best quarters ever.
Our operating fundamentals were at near record levels.
We placed in service over 3.6 million square feet of new developments which were 98% leased and have an 8.6% GAAP yield.
We continued our asset recycling by selling a $175 million of mostly suburban office assets at a 6.2% in place cap rate creating significant value for the company.
I’m very proud of the teams we have in place throughout organization and their ability to execute the real estate transactions and operations as well as or better than anyone in the business.
Specifically we signed 5.9 million square feet of leases and finished the quarter at 95.4% in service occupancy rate our highest level since 1995.
Rent on renewal leases for the quarter accelerated to 9% up from the 7.5% to 8% level of the first two quarters.
This performance reflects tightening fundamentals and the quality of our modern bulk industrial portfolio.
We also started $100 million of new development projects at solid yields bringing our total starts year-to-date to $419 million.
Now I’ll turn it over to Jim Connor to give a little more color on our operations.
Thanks Denny.
Good afternoon everybody.
From an operational standpoint we had a strong quarter of leasing at 5.9 million square feet as Denny noted.
Our tenant retention was a little over 58% because in this tight industrial market we’re able to opportunistically upgrade the quality of our tenants and the economic terms of the leases in place by bringing some new tenants that’s indicated in the overall improvement in our occupancy during the quarter.
Now let me touch on some of the key activity within each of our product types.
With respect to our industrial portfolio we continue to see fundamentals improve with completion of 5.1 million square feet of total leasing.
In-service occupancy in the bulk industrial portfolio was 96.6% 200 basis points higher than a year ago and an all time high for us.
In addition to the exceptional leasing execution by our team we continue to capture rental rate growth which is a key focus of company right now.
With growth on industrial lease renewals of 9.2% for the quarter the highest growth rate in 12 years.
We are seeing broad strake in industrial leasing across all our markets.
As an example our Indianapolis portfolio best in class modern bulk industrial product continues to benefit from strong demand from regional and national companies that are modernizing supply chains as well as the e-commerce players choosing Indi as a primary distribution location.
Our 19.4 million square foot Indianapolis portfolio is 99.7% occupied with only 60 000 square feet of available space in service buildings.
The Indianapolis market wide industrial vacancy is just over 5%.
Our Indianapolis portfolio has realized average net effective rent growth of 12% year-to-date up from the mid single-digit level last year.
Some other notable new leases signed during the quarter that drove occupancy higher were in Savannah where we signed two new leases totaling 1.2 million square feet with Home Depot national distribution centers.
We also executed a new lease for 446 000 square feet at Nashville with B&amp;G Foods North America and a new lease for 216 000 square feet with UPS Supply Chain Logistics in central New Jersey.
On the lease renewal side we also executed a 414 000 square foot lease with General Motors in Cincinnati.
We are 95.5% leased or better in 18 of our primary 22 markets with six of our markets at 100% occupancy which positions our portfolio in the sweet spot to continue to push rents and reduce concessions.
Now turning to the medical office the portfolio continues to perform well with an in-service occupancy level of 93.9% and the same property NOI up nearly 6% on the trailing 12 month basis driven by a combination of occupancy increases rent growth and operating efficiencies.
The suburban office market continues to improve with our in-service occupancy up 30 basis points over the prior quarter after excluding the effect of dispositions and a partially leased development project that was placed in service.
Our team had an exceptional quarter leasing with nearly 700 000 square feet of leases with notable activity in St.
Louis market where we signed 12 leases totaling 244 000 square feet which improved occupancy 80 basis points in that market.
We have also signed an additional 60 000 square foot new lease in the St.
Louis market in early October.
Turning to development we had a $100 million of development starts in three projects in the third quarter totaling 1.1 million square feet expected to generate a 6.8% weighted average initial stabilized yield.
Two industrial developments commenced the first was a 150 000 square foot build to suit industrial project on our land in the Gateway North Center in Minneapolis with Blue Dart Corporation.
This is our third build to suit in the Gateway North Business Park in the last 10 months which is another testament to our development expertise and our strategic land holdings.
I would also point out that as of today we’re now 100% leased in Minneapolis.
The second industrial development is a 783 000 square feet speculative project we started in Southern California.
The project is located in the Inland Empire a market has absorbed over 25 million square feet of space year-to-date according CBRE a pace that is slightly ahead of last year while vacancy has dropped to mid 4% range down from the low 5% from the area a year ago.
Finally I’ll note that our 5 million square foot industrial portfolio in California we’re currently 97% leased and believe it is the opportunity time to start speculative development in that market.
On the suburban office side we started another project in Raleigh in our Perimeter Park development.
Perimeter 4 is a six storey 192 000 square foot Class A office building.
As many of you know we owned prime land at in Raleigh adjacent to the Research Triangle Park and the Raleigh International Airport and are benefiting from an economic boom in the region with single-digit office vacancy rates and markets rents up 3% year-over-year.
The current project is 71% pre-leased to ChannelAdvisor Corporation with a promising list of prospects to fill the remaining space.
Many of you will remember that in 2013 we started two similar projects in the same park in Raleigh.
I’m pleased to note that both those project were delivered on time and have been leasing ahead of budget currently at a combined 85% level.
The two delivered projects are on target to achieve projected stabilized yields in the mid 9% range.
From an overall development pipeline perspective at quarter end we have 24% projects under construction totaling 8.3 million square feet and a projected a 627 million in stabilized cost at our share that are 59% preleased in the aggregate.
This pre-leased percentage is down a bit from previous quarters due in fact as Denny said this quarter we placed 3.6 million square feet of developments in service that were 98% leased in aggregate.
Our current pipeline has an initial cash stabilized yield of 7.1% and a GAAP yield of 7.7% once again highlighting the tremendous value creation being executed by our team and the value of our strategic land holdings.
Now I’ll turn it back over to Denny to cover some of our asset recycling activities.
Thanks Jim.
With respect to investment activity we had a $175 million of primarily suburban office dispositions during the quarter across three transactions.
As we alluded to in the last call we’ve been focused on selling suburban in the Midwest as well as taking advantage of good market pricing to sell a few select assets in the Southeast.
As many of may have seen in the news we closed on the sale of the Royal Palm buildings in Broward County Florida.
These two buildings encompassed 466 000 square feet and were sold for $275 per square foot.
We acquired this complex in 2010 and had a gross investment basis of about $245 per square foot which represents excellent value creation for shareholders.
The second disposition transaction we closed in the Southeast was Millenia Lakes in Orlando.
This was a three building complex held in joint venture and included a 12 acre parcel of land as well.
The office complex was sold for about a $193 per square foot with total net proceeds to us of $40 million which represented nearly 25% gain over the gross basis.
Finally we sold an 11-building 2.1 million square foot non-strategic industrial portfolio in Indianapolis also held in joint venture where we had a 10% ownership interest.
Our share of the sale proceeds for this disposition was $7.4 million.
On the land side we sold 9 million of non-strategic parcels during the quarter.
In addition I’ll note that combining land sales with development projects and in land year-to-date we’ve monetized 470 acres or about $84 million of land.
Now let me share and update about additional dispositions.
We’ve alluded to on previous calls and some that are in the news.
First we have about 10 other transactions mainly suburban office properties and our two remaining retail centers that are in the market or under contract.
We expect to close these in the fourth quarter.
So a few may spillover into the first quarter.
All of these transactions are part of our 2014 disposition guidance.
There are two other larger deals recently offered to the market that have been in the real estate news.
The first is an industrial portfolio comprised of 56 non-strategic building 5.9 million square feet for an average of about 100 000 square feet per building.
The portfolio is currently 91.7% occupied and the buildings are on average 23 years old.
This industrial portfolio is located in primarily Midwest cities.
With the recent compression in cap rates we’ve seen for this type of industrial assets we believe this is another great value creation opportunity.
Timing wise we expect bids on the portfolio in about a month and would expect to close early next year.
This package is not part of our 2014 guidance.
The second large package recently put out on the market and in the news is a nine building 1 million square foot 90% occupied suburban office portfolio located in Saint Louise and two office parks known as [Medical] Center and Woods Mill.
We expect the timing of this sale to be in late first quarter of next year and also these are not part of our 2014 disposition guidance.
To summarize our asset transactions we continue to take advantage of a favorable window in the real estate and capital market cycles to maximize proceeds in suburban office and other non-strategic assets and allocate capital primarily into value creating development activities or further deleveraging actions.
I’ll now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our financial results and capital plans.
Thanks Denny.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I would like to provide an update on our financial performance as well as an overview of our capital transactions.
Core FFO was $0.30 per share for the third quarter represented by strong operational performance delivery of developments and offset a bit from dispositions.
Same property NOI growth for the 12 and 3 months ended September 30th was 3.8% and 6.0% respectively.
The quarterly number is higher than expected due to exceptionally strong leasing activity rental rate growth across all product types and extremely low bad debt expense for the quarter.
As Denny noted our growth in average net effective rental renewals was 9.0% for the third quarter and is 8.0% year-to-date.
This growth in net effective rent was driven primarily by rent growth in our industrial portfolio where we’re optimistic about our ability to continue to push rental rates.
We generated $0.26 per share in AFFO which equates to a dividend payout ratio of 65% compared to $0.25 per share in the second quarter.
We expect there will be an uptick in second generation CapEx during the fourth quarter related to our recent leasing activity which is reflected our revised annual AFFO guidance of $0.95 to $0.97 per share.
As we continue to improve our overall operations and have a higher percentage of our income come from high quality lower CapEx old properties we’re producing a consistent growth in AFFO and driving down our already conservative AFFO payout ratio.
As we previously mentioned on last quarter’s call we issued 3.1 million common shares through our ATM program in July raising total proceeds of $55 million.
These were issued at an average price of $18.09 per share.
Later in the third quarter we raised an additional $10 million of proceeds through the ATM program at an average price of $18.58 per share.
Building and land sales generated a $185 million of proceeds during the quarter a portion of these proceeds were used to redeem our $96 million and 6.625% Series J preferred shares which will resulted in over a $6 million annualized reduction in preferred dividends.
All of these capital transactions coupled with our operational performance resulted in a continued trend of improvement in our key financial metrics.
We reported a fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.4 times for the rolling 12 months ended September 30th compared to 2.0 times we reported for the year prior.
For just the third quarter fixed charge coverage is now up to 2.5 times.
Net debt plus preferred to EBITDA for the rolling 12 months ended September30 2014 was 7.2 times compared to the 7.4 times we reported last quarter and 8.3 times we reported for the rolling 12 months ended September 30 2013.
When looking at this metric for just the current quarter it improved to 7.1 times.
Also during the quarter we closed on a renewal of our unsecured revolving credit facility increasing the potential maximum facility size from $850 million to $1.2 billion at a 20 basis point reduction in rate and extended the term to January of 2019.
We are in an excellent liquidity position and our leverage metrics continue to improve.
We are very well-positioned to continue bolstering the balance sheet fund our development pipeline and address our next significant debt maturity in February 2015.
I will conclude by saying that I’m very happy to report an another strong quarter.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Mark.
As a result of this outstanding performance we are pleased that yesterday we were able to raise the low-end of our guidance for FFO per share by $0.02 narrowing our 2014 range to $1.17 to $1.19 per share and raising the midpoint by $0.01.
Similarly as Mark said we raised our guidance for AFFO per share by $0.01 narrowing our 2014 range to $0.95 to $0.97 per share.
We also range same-property guidance from a range of 2% to 4% up to a range of 3.75% to 4.5%.
In closing we are pleased with our team’s outstanding operational performance and allocation of capital year-to-date and expect the solid finish to the year.
We believe dispositions currently in the market will continue our asset recycling into primarily high quality development projects continue to increase overall quality and stability of year-over-year growth of cash flow per share.
With that we’ll now open it up for questions.
And we ask to participants to keep the dialog to one question or perhaps two very short questions.
You are of course welcome to get back in the queue.
Thanks.
Go ahead.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question we’ll go to the line of Jaime Feldman.
Please go ahead.
Hey thank you and good afternoon.
Just I guess it’s a quarter later can you guys just give a sense of which markets this quarter you sense are still taking up that maybe weren’t quite as strong last quarter? And then which you think you are starting to get more concerned about supply or maybe just slowing down on the demand side? Sure Jamie.
I think no matter who’s numbers you use across the country you’re seeing great activity great net absorption.
I think you started to see some numbers in -- I’ll just kind of work my way around the country.
Atlanta and Chicago and Pennsylvania all had good quarters of net absorption.
Those markets are all in very good balance.
Going down south Houston had another good quarter.
Their pipeline of spec development continues to be well leased.
Dallas as we have talked about increased the amount of spec space a little bit.
So I think that’s we’ve got our eye on that market.
Southern California just continues to perform at a huge level as I reiterated earlier.
They had another I think approaching 6 million square feet of net absorption in the third quarter.
I don’t t think if missed any.
It’s some of the secondary markets.
Cincinnati had a great quarter some of the Florida market South Florida had another great quarter of leasing there.
So those are kind of really the highlights going around the system.
Dallas is probably the only one that we’re watching a little bit.
Some people have referred to Indianapolis but as I alluded to in the call our Indianapolis portfolio is performing so well.
We chose to build some additional product down there just to have some expansions base for our existing tenant base.
So we feel pretty good about that market.
And I think that’s really the highlight.
And just a follow-up.
As you think about some of these secondary markets that are starting to pick up is it the same types of demand is it ecommerce is it supply chain or is there something different happening in those markets? Well I think the big ecommerce is primarily the Tier 1 markets.
You are seeing some of the infill leasing for some of the e-commerce guys and some of the secondary tertiary markets but the big notable million square feet deals that our favorite retail and ecommerce companies are primarily in the Tier 1 markets.
You just you’re seeing good activity across all sectors in the industrial pipeline.
So I think e-commerce continues to be a big part of the performance but you cannot credit it solely to e-commerce like you probably would have maybe two or three years ago.
I think you’ve got just the macro economy that’s pretty much hitting on all cylinders from the industrial perspective.
Thank you.
Next we’ll go to line of Vance Edelson.
Please go ahead.
Terrific thanks.
So just on selling the 11 industrial buildings in Minneapolis it’s a market you described as very robust and it’s benefiting from the e-commerce.
Could you share a little more on what the JV’s rational was for pulling out of those assets? Sure Vance.
That is the JV that we formed back before we went public back in 1992.
So as we said in prepared remarks we only owned 10% of that and the rest of it is owned by institutional investor.
And obviously a 22 year run which is tremendous run for them on those assets and they just decided to -- that they were ready to sell and move onto something else.
So as since the [vector] was in place for 22 years those assets were getting older in nature and so they wanted to sell.
And again I think the results from that disposition were extremely favorable and we’re seeing that in the markets really I would say across the board today.
Did you have an opportunity to buy them but they’re older assets so you didn’t want them? Yes we could have bought them but yes that’s right.
You know that our philosophy is that with the new larger modern bulk product and that’s what we’re really focused on on the development and has been on the acquisition side.
Okay.
And then… You’re less than 200 000 for the building and your average age is well over 25 years.
Okay.
That make sense.
And then with valuations on the office side continuing to move up would you consider more non-core dispositions than you would have earlier in the year or perhaps even placing on the market what you want to consider to be more core if the price looks good? Well I think we have sold some core what we would call core office product in the Southeast.
Earlier this year we had the joint venture with 3630 in Atlanta then selling the Royal Palm buildings and Millenia buildings those were all excellent core assets in I would call it core office market.
So yes we were happy to do that when we think the timing is right.
And then as we said we’ve got a big portfolio of suburban office assets in St.
Louis that’s now in the market plus some other miscellaneous office product in various markets.
So we think the pricing is good right now and that’s what we’re experiencing.
So we’ll continue to prune that portfolio.
Next we’ll go to Kevin Baron.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Denny you kind of talked about already to mark that portfolio that’s available in St.
Louis I guess for marketing.
Could you just talk a little bit more about the strategy with the Midwest suburban office and the marketplace Cincinnati and St.
Louis those assets are running in the low 80s for occupancy.
And the sales that you’ve completed in the past quarters have been more stabilized assets.
So maybe just speak about how much lease up is needed just to generate that investor interest.
And then maybe just talk about the pricing trends that you’re kind of seeing within those particular markets? Well let me start with the St.
Louis.
As we’ve said on the call as Jim said that market is I would call it on fire for suburban office when you compare to what we’ve seen for a long long time.
And so one of the projects that I mentioned on the call was around in the script was Woods Mill.
Woods Mill is a two office building portfolio we’ve owned for probably 10 years and it’s now 100% leased.
And so there is some other product there that is also moving up and at a very high occupancy.
So we are looking at marketing those as we get those leased up.
And that again somewhat why our remaining occupancy always looks a little bit low because we continue to have good leasing success and then we mark those assets for sale.
The similar story I would say over in Cincinnati but probably not the level of leasing activity that we’ve seen in St.
Louis at this point in time.
So we continue again earlier this year we sold about $150 million package in Cincinnati and we continue to look at other opportunities to sell some of those assets also.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up.
If you look at the development page in the supplemental the developed margins declined from 21% last quarter to 18% if you kind of look at the midpoint of the projected value creation.
So another deliveries starts in the quarter impact your numbers.
But can you just walk us through what is pressuring those margins; is it new land costs or construction costs and then maybe how we should think about that over the next 12 months or so? Kevin this is Mark.
I’ll start with that and I’ll let Denny or Jim chime in on what’s left in that portfolio.
But part of what’s driving the decrease in the margin is the product mix.
We’ve placed in service this quarter a couple of our office projects down in [Riley] that Denny or Jim mentioned.
We’re in the mid 9.5% yield range with still obviously the margin on those projects on office site.
We were getting better margins in the industrial that we’re left with.
So the development pipeline that sits here today is much more heavily weighted towards the industrial product than it was the office a quarter ago.
And then as it comes specifically to the margin on the industrial Jim I don’t know if you had anything.
Yes.
And the only other comment I think you’ll continue to see that number fluctuate a little bit depending on how much of the volume is in our newer markets.
So for example the Southern California is a market we’ve really just geared up to start the development in.
We acquired that piece of property last quarter to be able to put it in service.
So the yields there are not going to be as good as our mature markets where we’ve owned strategic land for a number of years on a really good basis.
And I think 18% is still pretty good.
All right.
Okay thanks guys.
And next we’ll go to line of Brendan Maiorana.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Looking at your leased rate it’s very high.
I think it’s about as high as it’s been.
But if I look at the occupancy rate as you disclosed it on page 16 there is a pretty healthy spread between leased and average commenced occupancy.
And that’s a stat that you guys have only offered more recently but it’s 350 basis points wide across the overall portfolio it’s 370 basis points just in the bulk side.
How should we think about what a normalized spread leased versus occupied should be and what does that mean for occupancy trends as we think about it over the next few quarters? Yes Brendan I’ll see if I can try to answer part of that.
That 350 basis-point spread was certainly wider than we have historically run out.
We’ve been more in the 150 to 225 basis-point spread I would say so the 350 is definitely wider.
A couple of things I would point out.
If that spread is not that wide in our same property pool if you look at the same property page in the supplemental it’s the commencement occupancy is closer to the 95% range.
So the spread on that pool is more like a 150 to 175 basis-point which is what we’ve been traditionally running at.
What we’re dealing with is only about 75% of our NOI right now is in our same property pool because as we’re going through this dispositioning phase we’re selling older assets and we’re replacing it with a new development pipeline that takes 24 months before it makes its way in same store.
So about 25% of our total NOI is not in the same property pool yet and that’s where we’re really seeing significant NOI growth.
And I think that that 350 basis-point spread will translate into additional NOI increases as we get through the next several quarters; it just may not all show up in the same property pool.
Okay.
And Mark just related to that your occupancy guidance I think suggests that a modest dip in the fourth quarter; is there anything specific or just that’s just kind of natural expirations? Yes Brandon our occupancy guidance is an average not an endpoint.
And if you look at it on average what it really would suggest it will be right around a very top in the guidance.
And because we were within that range we just decided not to update the guidance.
Okay.
So if there was any dip at all I would say it would be very very modest.
Okay.
And just real quick one you have $250 million of debt with February maturity and high rates 738.
So I think can you pay that off three months early and if so what would be likely rate if you were to go to the market today? Yes we’re probably looking at 4% maybe just under 4% for 10 year money give or take right now.
We could not pay it off early without a fairly substantial make whole premium.
And we’re looking -- as Denny mentioned we have a lot of dispositions in the pipeline we do like the debt rates we have right now but we’re just trying to right now Brendan balance out the disposition proceed with the maturities we have coming at us.
There is a lot of different ways we can take care of that February maturity but needless to say that all pretty attractive relative to the rate we have on that debt.
Great.
Thanks.
And next we’ll go to line of Eric Frankel.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Just hoping you can maybe just explain operating expenses; they seem to be at a pretty low rate this quarter especially about that some of your peers have reported some higher operating expenses just I was I want to get an explanation whether it’s a one-time thing or you expect operating expenses to ramp up over the next year or so? Yes Eric I guess to be honest with you it didn’t really pop out to me or us that they were that extremely low.
Operation we have pretty good quarter overall but just trying to think here not been stuck.
We obviously had very high operating expenses in the first quarter with weather related issues.
I guess in a lot of our cities the first quarter and the third quarter is really the highest quarter of operating expenses we have because of weather conditions either cold or hot.
And we have a pretty mild summer so that maybe a part of the driver.
So I’ll have to look into that and get back to you again.
Okay.
Just my follow-up question regarding the leasing spread.
So Jim you commented you’re able to -- a little bit higher quality rental.
Could you comment on leasing spreads for those new tenants are in place? Well we’ve certainly -- that’s been a lot of time talking about this in the last few quarters.
We continue to monitor very closely the number and percentage of leases in the portfolio that we’re done in the trough period that 2009 to 2011 period.
And we’re generally working out on the renewal side the next two to three quarters.
So the next 18 months we still got about 50% of the portfolio rolling 50% of the square footage that is rolling in the next 18 months is from that trough period.
So we were seeing very good opportunity to push rents there.
The other place we’re pushing back is concessions are down and lease terms are up.
Because our occupancies are so high we’ve got certain tenants that we want to renew for shorter periods of time that we’ve got limited opportunity to push the rents and extend the terms out.
So that’s what we’re trying to take advantage of that.
So that’s the first piece of its is the trough rents.
And the other piece of it is just a result of the high occupancy.
When most of our operating units are above 95.5% they can dictate some pretty good terms.
So we’ve been pushing a lot on not only the rental rates but also the annual increases.
And we’re pretty consistently getting 2.5% increases now on our industrial annual escalations which has been a pretty healthy improvement over the years gone by.
And Eric as you know we’ve not historically tracked new leasing spreads and a lot of that we’ve talked about has been because as we were more predominantly office it was really hard to measure one lease to the other because the type of build out and space was actually different since lot heard on the office side than the industrial.
But we’re trying to track that data now on the industrial side.
And I would tell you that the spread on our new leases on the industrial is maybe 100 basis points lower than the renewal spread but they’re very much in some ballpark on the industrial side.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Next we’ll go to line of Dave Rodgers.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good afternoon guys.
Maybe Jim to start with you.
On the development side I think you need $80 million to $180 million of development starts in the fourth quarter to hit your guidance.
I assume you have good visibility on that.
And that’s not going to be an issue.
But I guess I’d love to know what you’re thinking in terms of kind of the runway for development kind of the total pipeline as you think without giving guidance for 2015.
But how does that build the two pipeline look and any kind of timing issues where we’d see a slowdown or could see a pick-up in the development activity overall? Well Dave I’m going to have to choose my words very carefully because I’ve got three guys in the room looking at me now.
I would tell you and I think everybody would have the same sense as you look at where we are in 2014 and what we need to achieve to hit hard the midpoint of our guidance I would tell you I think we all feel very good about that.
As you look at the U.S.
industrial market you’ll look at the improving office market; you’ll look at the healthcare business all of which contribute to our new development pipeline.
I would tell you we have the same sense of confidence for 2015 that we’re currently enjoying.
So I think we’re reasonably optimistic.
Okay.
And then maybe on the medical office side are you still seeing opportunities to do development in medical? And on the flip side given the strength in cap rates and valuations of assets I mean is it maybe to think about maybe putting more of those out to market as well as you move into 2015? Well to answer the first question yes we’re seeing a lot of additional opportunities.
As the healthcare industry as a whole continues to go through an ambulation we’re seeing a lot of off campus opportunities.
We’re picking and choosing those on a very limited basis.
We like those that are in line with major systems and long-term lease components.
We like those that tie into our existing core markets.
So we’re continuing to see those.
On-campus opportunities probably not as strong as the off-campus opportunities in terms of just of the pure numbers.
But I will tell you there are a lot of very big projects out there in the marketplace.
So we think the pipeline for the medical business is very strong for the fourth quarter and for going into 2015.
In terms of spreads the medical business is enjoying great cap rate compression just like the industrial business is.
And we could monetize large pieces of that at anytime if we so chose.
I think as we’ve demonstrated and consistently told you guys in the last quarter we’d much rather take advantage of the opportunity to reposition the portfolio through the sales of the suburban office properties because we’re getting real good cap rates there that historically we haven’t seen.
The only thing you see ourselves would be pruning the portfolio we prune the MLV portfolio late in 2013 with a few assets trickling in it early 2014.
We really don’t anticipate we need to do that.
You will see that portfolio that Denny talked about earlier on the industrial side again that’s just kind of pruning the portfolio some older and some non-strategic assets for us.
So I think that will be the extent of it in those two product types.
Okay.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to line of Ki Bin Kim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I’m not sure if I missed this but the two other larger deals that you said are out for sale and I realize you have closed yet.
But did you talk about a dollar range for those assets on a cap rate range? We didn’t really talk about that.
I guess I would -- and especially since we’re in the market right now I’d rather not talk about that.
So what I can say Ki Bin is that those are included in the guidance as we said in the call that there -- actually two big ones are not included in our guidance.
I mean there we don’t anticipate either one of those to close till sometime probably in the first quarter of 2015.
So those would be included in our 2015 guidance when we give that.
Let me ask this in a different way.
Are those assets for sale on par with average asset quality in those respective markets? Yes I guess I would say so.
I mean once an industrial portfolio of smaller buildings older buildings so I’d say as that kind of portfolio goes this is a pretty good one.
And then the suburban office assets are in St.
Louis and those would be typical good parts in suburban St.
Louis yes.
Okay.
And just the last question from me and someone -- I know you alluded to it little bit Mark on your lease spread about -- regarding new lease spreads that which you historically haven’t going in [your term out].
If I look at the rent just the average net effective rent for what you find in both industrial and office in 2013 and three quarters in 2014 it seems like in every quarter the net effective rent just broadly speaking is lower in new leases than they are for the new leases signed -- sorry for renewal leases.
So it just makes me wonder that is it just lower quality type of assets that are under a new lease bucket or what cause net effective of rent to be consistently lower? That’s just purely a factor of the market Ki Bin.
I mean you got our industrial leases range anywhere from call it high $2 to $6.5 a foot depending on what market you’re in and exactly what type of industrial building it is.
So it’s really just product mix even within the industrial portfolio and locations driving that? We look at the overall deal quality of all of our deals which we take the total CapEx and concessions to get a deal done by the total rent we’re going to collect over the life and I would tell you that the overall deal quality on all those deals are better and better every quarter.
Okay.
That’s it for me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we’ll go to Michael Salinsky.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Just given the significant disposition activity you had year-to-date.
Any consequences there from a dividend standpoint that would fortunately kind of push some of that into ‘15 it will require special dividend or 1031? No Mike we should be good to go there.
The acquisitions that we have done this year we pretty much did all 1031 deals with that already.
So that mitigated whatever exposure we may have had.
So we should have a bit of room before we bump up against any kind of special dividend issues.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And just as my follow-up.
As you think about the leverage for the company I mean when you were walking to the plan and deleveraging over last few years you had a very stated target.
Can you give us a sense kind of what target leverage for Duke we should expect going forward with kind of the range now as you made significant progress year-to-date you seem to be on a course for next year? Yes.
Always really kind of laid out here right now Mike is to get that fixed charge up about 2.5% to get that plus preferred to EBITDA down below 7.0% and keep that debt plus preferred to gross asset number in that 48% range through the year-end ‘14.
And now what’s really going to drive that are the dispositions that we’ve talked about.
And how quickly they come in and how we utilize the proceeds from that I guess is what I would say.
So as we give 2015 guidance at January I think we’ll have a better view on what our net disposition level will be and uses of those proceeds and at that time I think we’ll be in a better position to get some more concrete guidance on where we’re headed towards the leverage.
But needless to say it will be an improvement of where we are today.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions).
We do have a follow-up from Kevin Baron.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Mark and Denny I appreciate you don’t want to negotiate against yourself I mean back to sales but maybe you can just share with us just the annualized NOI of each portfolios and then we can apply whatever cap rate we want in terms of determining value? Well I certainly would if I had any idea what they were sitting here today.
So on the industrial portfolio Mark you said it’s about 21 million? Yes it’s in the low 20.
And again I don’t really know what the office side is.
But let me I guess I mean I think basically if you put these two together we’re targeting let’s say $425 million to $450 million range between those two portfolios something like that.
Okay.
And then as we think about the same-store growth in the quarter up 6 rents up 5 expenses up 3.3.
Was there anything either in this quarter or in 3Q of ‘13 that would have changed that number relative to what you’ve been doing year-to-date closer to 4? Yes Michael I would say that I think I commented briefly on bad debt expense that was probably about 1% of the 6% right there.
Not to say that the prior year’s quarter had high bad debt expense but this quarter was virtually non-existed.
So that change right there was probably about 1% of the 6%.
The rest of it was the combination of occupancy and rental rate growth.
I would tell you that as you look forward and I forget if there was Kevin or Brandon or who has brought up the spread between our leasing rate and our occupied rate but most of that spread is not in a our same property portfolio.
Our same property portfolio is now got a pretty high commencement level.
So as you look forward it’s probably not going to have quite the same occupancy growth going forward but we did have very good occupancy growth this quarter over last year.
So some 1% of that was kind of bad debt anomaly.
Okay.
And then just going back to the value creation in the development pipeline and I know 18% margins at all which is still high.
But as you think about the spread to what you’re developing to and what you’re evaluating the math.
If you look at this quarter you’re about a 110 basis points spread last quarter you were a 130.
In this quarter you dropped your applied cap rate now.
I think I heard Mark talk about mixed shift in terms of the stuff at KML which would have dropped the pipeline expected deal from 7.4 and 7.1.
How much of it was reevaluation on the value of those assets that you have in there to drop the applied cap rate for value creation from 6.1% down to 6%.
None of it Michael.
The way we do that calculation we lock in our estimated cap rate the day we start the building.
So the way we look at it right wrong aren’t different is once you go forward than that from that point on it’s a passage of time or it’s leasing activity.
So the day we believe we create the value the day we start the building.
So we lock in the estimated market cap rate on that day that we will adjust our yields as we lease up faster or slower than what we had but the cap rates locked in.
So none of that was due to your question it was due to like you haven’t confirmed that.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And again Mike I would say it’s really it is product mix generally and that can vary on the industrial side for example market to market though.
You kind of spread; you are going to get maybe more in one market versus another.
So it’s just what’s in that pipeline it’s a way that around.
Okay.
And just last one I just want to ask one more just on the medical office and I know we’ve had this discussion overtime just in terms of that piece and I know you provided a lot of good opportunities for development and you have a pretty good franchise that what you have been able to build up going back when you number of years ago.
As I think about how you have transformed the portfolio you think about these other portfolios you’re putting on the market going deeper into the company and pulling out some industrial office pulling out more suburban office.
I guess do you step back strategically and sort of say hey in a couple of years the first line of this press release not read Duke Realty Corporation a leading industrial suburban office and medical office property REIT it will just be Duke Realty a leading industrially REIT.
And do you think about a more strategic larger scale exit to get value for the platform you’ve created in the medical office and you get paid for the value creation in future projects or you just become a more pure play industrial company? Well Michael I think if you look back historically over the last four five years we’ve certainly gone that direction.
I mean we were 35% industrial five years ago we’re now pushing 65%.
But I think what the way we look at it is we’re now in a position that we really like the overall portfolio we know we still have some assets and again as we’ve been saying primarily older Midwest suburban assets that we just don’t really want own long-term.
So we’re looking at more what don’t we want to own long-term right now.
And the good news is we can take those proceeds from this dispositions and as we said we can put those into our development pipeline and really self fund our development and overall increasing the quality and the kind of assets that we own.
And so we like doing that today both with the bulk industrial and the medical office because we know we’re creating a lot of value there.
And then just as far as -- and again if you look at the timing I don’t think there is we haven’t seen a better time in quite a long time to sell these suburban office assets.
So that’s what we’re focused on.
And then as far as pruning the portfolio as Jim mentioned we did prune that MOB portfolio to the tune of about $0.25 billion about a year ago.
And we’re doing the same thing now with this industrial package.
So we’re just really trying to take advantage of things going on in the market to continue overall improved quality of portfolio.
Great thanks for the color Denny.
We do have a follow up from Eric Frankel.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just to clarify Mark.
I guess I was more specifically wondering about [pass-through] on your operating expense line item.
Just maybe you could provide a little bit of color what taxing authorities thinking of various markets in terms of reappraisals and where that can go in the next year or two especially with appreciating property prices everywhere? Okay yes.
Because I do some math Eric and I wasn’t noticing an overall big lift in operating expenses overall.
So I still can’t answer your question.
So I’ll have to take a look at that but I will tell you that obviously we’ve got an in-house property tax staff and they’re pretty good at staying on top of what’s going on out there and doing fields where they need to be.
So I will follow up on that and get back to you.
But also on the industrial side Eric they’re more like net leases.
So those increase especially when you’re at 96% leased on the industrial side virtually all those increases pass-through.
And I would say that’s probably why our expenses are down a little bit because our occupancy is up.
And so we’re passing more of that stuff through.
Mark can you explain it but I’m taking credit for it.
How is that? Fair enough fair enough.
And perhaps Jim maybe to talk through leasing prospect for your spec developments and obviously that’s been increasing a little bit over the last year you’ve also been super successful with all the hit but obviously you take a little bit more risk in the development pipeline maybe you can touch upon the leasing activity? Yes Eric I would tell you that we’re very optimistic that we’ll have the opportunity to announce some new deals in our spec development when we report our fourth quarter numbers in mid January.
I think the performance of our local teams is demonstrated.
If you go back and just look at our historic track record we’ve done over the last few years 15 spec projects with the total value of $285 million.
When we started them they were 23% pre-leased and they’re currently 95% pre-released.
So we have not been as aggressive on the spec side as some of our peers as shown in the percentage of our development pipeline that was pre-leased.
But we’ve made really – we’re covering all our debt.
So I would tell you that everything we’re seeing in the marketplace today we continue to believe we can execute on all those with the consistent kind of track record that we’ve been able to do in the last few years.
Okay thanks.
Appreciate it.
We do have a follow-up from Jamie Feldman.
Your line is open.
Great thanks.
Can you guys talk a little bit more about the depth of buyers for the assets you have in the market leverage and private versus public.
Just what are you seeing out there? Well we’ve got I think we’re all extremely pleased with the depth of buyers potentially that are out there.
We have a single asset just I'll give just a couple of examples that I think will give you some color.
We have a single asset office asset in St.
Louis that we're finalizing the process on right now I'd say.
And we had 12 offers on that building.
Again a larger single asset in the [Clayton] sub market.
And I would say 6 of the offers were very good and very competitive and very close.
On that industrial portfolio we had 20 CA signed in the first hour that our folks began marketing that one.
So the activity is very good and very strong.
It's kind of a wide range of buyers but I would say most of these are more of the private equity kind of buyers some little bit more on the institutional side.
Not I would say generally speaking what we're selling it isn't public REITs that are looking at this product.
So seems to be deep pool of buyers.
And quite honestly all these are being conducted without planning contingencies right now.
But there is plenty of secured debt available for that even when number of buyers have unsecured lines that they can use for acquisitions today.
So the financing really isn’t an issue right now.
Do you share some kind of leverage would you? I don't know for sure and I think it quite varies from transaction to transaction Jamie.
But I think probably in the 60% give or take leverage range on most of these transactions today.
And they are all pretty clear Jamie there is no doubt on any of these.
All right great.
Thank you.
And at this time there are no further questions.
Please continue.
I’d like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
I will look forward to see many of you at upcoming NAREIT meetings or at our Atlanta Property Tour on the late afternoon at NAREIT on November 6th.
Also note that our fourth quarter and year-end call is tentatively scheduled on January 29th.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing-by and welcome to the Duke Realty fourth Quarter end year-end 2014 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session; instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Ron Hubbard VP Investor Relations Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and CEO; Jim Connor Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Denien Chief Financial Officer and Nick Anthony our Chief Investment Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2013 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron good afternoon everyone.
Let me start by saying that 2014 was another excellent year for Duke Realty.
We met or exceeded all of our beginning of the year goals and capped off the year with an excellent fourth quarter.
In light of the suburban office disposition we announced yesterday today's prepared remarks will focus on the sale along with our 2015 guidance and we'll provide limited highlights of the fourth quarter in 2014.
So now on to the sale.
We just agreed to sell portfolio suburban office properties totalling 6.9 million sq.
ft.
and 57 acres of undeveloped land.
An affiliate of Starwood Capital Group in a joint venture with affiliates of Vanderbilt Parkers and Trinity Capital Advisors agreed to purchase the portfolio for $1.12 billion.
The 52 billion portfolio includes all of the company’s wholly owned suburban office assets in Nashville Rowley South Florida and St.
Louis.
One of the buildings in Rowley is currently under construction.
The in-service portfolio is 91.6% lease and the buildings have an average age of 15.5 years.
The portfolio is covered by only $40 million of secured debt that will be paid off at closing.
Buyer will assume all the leasing and property management responsibilities upon closing.
As far as the transaction company will provide seller financing of $200 million in the form of a first mortgage and a portion of the underlying properties which will bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.5% and of a maturity date of December 31 2016.
The note will be prepayable without penalty beginning in January of 2016 and will be collateralized by properties with an approximate 75% loaned value.
Closing in a transaction is subject to certain customary conditions and is expected to occur on or about April 1 2015 except for the one property currently under construction which is expected to close upon completion late 2015.
This transaction will result in a book and tax gain and is possible that there is special dividend may be required but it is too early in the year to predict with any certainty whether or how much that might be.
We will implement various tax planning strategies to minimize the impact of this transaction but [indiscernible] with a redeployment of this capital.
I would remind everyone that we have about 750 million of dispositions in 2014 with only a 131 million of acquisitions and we still do not have any special dividend requirements.
I also want to point out that although this transaction will be added to FFO in the short-term it has minimal impact on AFFO and after the sale we will be positioned with an improved portfolio in a much stronger balance sheet to enable future growth.
Now let me quickly recap our outstanding year.
We are selling 25 million sq.
ft of leases which is very impressive given our all-time high occupancy levels.
We improved in-service occupancy to 95.3% from 95.2% at a prior yearend and we grew same property NOI of strong 4.4%.
We commenced 563 million and new development starts acquired over a 131 million of industrial and medical office properties and completed 736 million in dispositions.
We issued 300 million of unsecured debt at a yield of 3.9% and we redeemed all of our outstanding preferred stock totalling 448 million which had a weighted average dividend rate of 6.57% and we raised 289 million of common equity during the year which we used to fund our development pipeline and significantly improved our overall leverage profile.
We continued our solid execution of asset recycling we sold 212 million of assets during the fourth quarter this was comprised of 13 buildings across 10 transactions with a mix of suburban office older industrial and one of our last remaining retain projects all primarily located in the Midwest.
For the full year proceeds from asset and land sales were 736 million and 37 million respectively both near the high point of expectations from the year.
Similar to previous years the proceeds from these dispositions were accretively recycled in the development projects and leverage reduction.
In summary we are very pleased with our 2014th operating results and our capital recycling efforts which further strengthen our portfolio and balance sheet.
Now I’ll turn it over to Jim Connor to give a little more color on our leasing activity and development pipeline.
Thanks Denny.
Good afternoon everybody.
As Denny mentioned we had a solid quarter in leasing with over 4 million square feet executed and we also commenced $144 million of new development starts.
Our overall in-service occupancy ended the year at 95.3% steady from the third quarter and up a 110 basis points year-over-year.
These strong fundamentals have contributed to year-over-year net effective rent growth and sign renewals across the entire portfolio of 11% in the fourth quarter and nearly 9% for the entire year.
With respect to leasing our in-service industrial portfolio all of that four of our 22 industrial markets are over 90% leased and 15 are over 95% leased with an overall occupancy level of 96.4%.
Our medical office portfolio continues to produce strong results with approximately 460 000 square feet of leases signed during the year ending the year with overall occupancy at 94.4% a 60 basis points improvement over a year in 2013.
Turning to development we started 25 new projects during 2014 totalling $563 million and projected stabilized costs.
Solid results which met our expectations coming into the year.
For the fourth quarter we started a $144 million of projects across 7 deals with a big quarter from our medical office which I will expand on in a moment.
It always started 640 000 square feet in the fourth quarter with an expected initial stabilized cash yield of 8.2% and a weighted average gap yield of 9.2%.
Regarding a few specific development deals we started a 206 000 square foot 47% pre-leased industrial project in Houston adjacent to the cargo area at the International Airport.
Our medical office platform had a fantastic quarter with four new starts totalling about 200 000 square feet.
All four projects are a 100% preleased for 15 years to high quality health system including AMERIS Centerre and TriHealth.
Looking forward we have a very strong development pipeline for 2015.
Finally we started a speculative suburban office project in Broward County Florida at our Pembroke Point Park totalling 144 000 square feet.
There are very limited blocks the class A space available in this market.
So we believe it was a strategic time to monetize part of our office land and create some value with development.
Also note we expect high single-digit to double-digit returns on this project.
Including the solid fourth-quarter activity our development pipeline at year-end is over $498 million with a weighted average stabilized initial cash yield of 7.4% and a GAAP yield of 8.1% and is 58% preleased in the aggregate.
I would also like to note that during the fourth quarter of 2014 we conducted a comprehensive review of all of our landholdings.
At the conclusion of this review we recognized $25 million of impairment charges on additional 583 acres with a basis of a $130 million of our land bank that we had previously planned to develop and now plan to sell.
The land that was re-designated was office land but there were a few industrial private parcels in some markets where were we had to determine we had excess supply.
So at December 31 2014 we own 1144 acres of land that we intend to sell with a basis after considering all of the impairment charges of a $185 million.
It should be noted that the estimated sale price of a significant portion of this land is higher than its basis but we are not allowed under accounting rules to write up land to its estimated fair market value.
Our development land inventory including our share of joint venture land at December 31 2014 totals 2077 acres with a basis of $384 million.
This development land can accommodate over 36 million square feet of primarily industrial development.
Now let me turn it over to Mark to discuss our financial results capital plans including the use of proceeds from the proposed $1.1 billion portfolio sale and guidance for the upcoming year.
Thanks Jim.
Good afternoon everyone.
I am pleased to report that core FFO for the quarter was $0.30 per share compared to $0.29 per share in the quarter 2013.
Core FFO for the quarter was positively impacted by $574 million up 85% preleased development projects that were placed in service during the year as well as continuing improvements and virtually all operating metrics in core portfolio.
These improvements were somewhat offset by lower income from service operations and an increase in general and administrative expense both of which were anticipated.
We reported Core FFO a $18 per share for the full year compared to a $10 per share from 2013.
This 7.3% growth over 2014 is impressive when considering the significant property sales and substantial deleveraging that we accomplish during 2014.
I am also pleased to report AFFO of $0.96 per share for the full year and $0.21 per share for the fourth quarter of 2014.
Second-generation capital expenditures were relatively consistent between the two years and growth in AFFO over 2013 was mainly attributable to the same strong operating results that drove the growth in Core FFO.
In summary we outperformed expectations for all key operating metrics that we established at the beginning of 2014.
And we expect continued solid operating fundamentals in 2015.
Now I will quickly recap the capital activities for the quarter.
As previously announced in November we took advantage of continued low interest rates and issued $300 million of unsecured notes which had a stated rate of 3.75% and an effective rate of 3.9%.
I would note that we issued the stat before we entered into detailed discussions on a suburban office sell we just announced.
During the fourth quarter 2014 we redeemed all remaining amounts of both our 6.5% Series K preferred shares and 6.6% Series L preferred shares for a total redemption of $333 million.
These redemptions when coupled with the third quarter redemption about $96 million up 6.65% Series J preferred shares will result in an ongoing annual reduction to preferred dividends of over $29 million.
And we now have no preferred stock outstanding.
We ended the year with $106 million outstanding underlying credit.
We expect to pay our line down in early 2015 using the proceeds from near-term dispositions including the plan of Midwest industrial portfolio that we discussed last quarter.
Even without considering the larger suburban office portfolio disposition our pipeline of dispositions for early 2015 is strong and we expect to be able to cover our first quarter debt maturities and development needs with the proceeds from these dispositions.
Now let me touch on some of the assumptions related to the suburban office portfolio disposition that we announce yesterday and its impact on earnings and leverage metrics.
I will remind everyone the relevant details of this transaction are included on a separate presentation in the investor relations section of our website.
After consideration of the $200 million of seller financing net proceeds are expected to be about $900 million.
We intend to use the majority of these proceeds to de-lever further through debt repayments as well as to fund our develop pipeline throughout the remainder of the year.
We have almost a $177 million of secured debt maturing in 2015 at an average interest rate of 4.2% and we have $250 million of unsecured debt maturing in February of 2015 and another 600 million of unsecured notes maturing through early 2017 with an average interest rate of 6.1%.
There would be prepayment penalties associated with most of this debt but to accomplish deleveraging it is likely we’d prepay somewhere between $500 million to $700 million of debt.
This would still leave us with ample liquidity to cover capital needs for the remainder of the year and also significantly improve our overall leverage profile.
We expect that our run rate for fixed charge coverage should be close to 3.0 times by yearend.
Our debt to EBITDA should be 6.5 times or lower by year-end and debt to gross asset should be in the low 40% range.
Now I will turn the call back over to Denny.
Thanks Mark.
Now turning to our 2015 outlook yesterday we announced a range for 2015 FFO per share of a $12 to a $20 with a midpoint of a $16 per share and AFFO per share of $0.96 to a $4 with a midpoint per share of a $1.
This considers the effect of the suburban office portfolio sell we announced.
First from a macro perspective we expect the economic environment in 2015 to continue at about its current pace and continued solid real estate fundamentals which are reflected in the guidance.
A few specifics and some of the anticipated key performance metrics outlined on the 2015 range of estimates page provided on our website are as follows: Our average in-service portfolio occupancy range for 2015 is expected to be 94.5% to 95.5% the midpoint of which would be about 20 basis points better than our 2014 results.
Lease expirations for 2015 are only 8% of our annual revenues.
Same property NOI is projected to grow at a range of 2% to 4% which is based on a steady occupancy and continued rental rate growth.
On the capital recycling front we expect proceeds from building dispositions in the range of $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion and proceeds from land dispositions of $50 million to $80 million.
These dispositions include the Midwest industrial portfolio we previously disclosed and the just announced suburban office portfolio sale.
The remaining dispositions will be focused primarily on additional on suburban office and the last few retail assets.
Acquisitions are projected in the range of 75 million to 100 million.
We expect to be pretty selective given today's pricing environment.
Development starts are projected in the range of 400 million to 500 million.
We expect to fund our development pipeline with proceeds from our building and land dispositions.
Service operation should be in the range of 15 million to 20 million bit below our 2014 run rate due to a few high-margin contracts that were completed in 2014.
G&amp;A expense is expected to be in the range of 45 million to 50 million it should also be noted that our guidance or G&amp;A expense in core FFO oh does not include any charges related to severance that may be incurred as a result of the suburban office disposition.
So in closing I just like to thank the entire Duke Realty team for their efforts for another great year of executing on operations and capital allocation.
Our collective actions are producing reliable steady cash flow growth for shareholders.
I also like to thank everyone involved in bringing this major suburban office sale together very quickly.
We had an excellent 2014 and are we positioned for continued growth in 2015 and beyond.
With that we will open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] our first question is from the line of Jamie Feldman.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good afternoon.
I guess just focusing on the portfolio sale can you talk a little bit about the decision to sell those particular markets at this point? It seems like the Sunbelt's doing pretty well we're seeing corporate relocation activity.
I'm just wondering in your internal debates how you thought about holding versus selling and why now? Well I think if you look at just our overall strategy we have continued to downsize our suburban office portfolio.
We set out a goal a number of years ago to get that to 25% and we reached that at the end of last year.
And so we've been really I would say very selective on what we were trying to sell.
And I think when you look at those markets Jamie I would agree with you clearly places like Raleigh and South Florida and Nashville also have held up very well and done very well in comparison to some of the other markets that we've been in the Midwest some of which we sold out of a couple years ago in the other large sale we did.
But we've always kept our options open and knew that if an offer happened to come along for a larger portion of our suburban office assets that we thought was very competitive pricing for us we would make the move to really downsize that portfolio further and reinvest those proceeds again back into the development pipeline for bulk industrial and MOV.
And it just happened to come along.
And as I said we think the pricing's very competitive right now so we've made the internal decision after a fair amount of discussion that we thought we should move forward with that for the long-term benefits of the company.
And are you making any kind of call on those markets peaking out here? Or do you think they still have room to run? I would say and then Jim can chime in on this I mean this is a very good portfolio and 91+% leased so I mean that's fairly high occupancy for suburban office portfolio.
And quite honestly I think the more of the vacancy was in St.
Louis than in those other markets and we think we have we have done a fair amount of leasing in those properties over the last couple of years we think the rental rates were pretty strong so I don’t know if I call it peaking out but I think that portfolio was in excellent shape from a performance point of view and from the evaluation point of view.
Okay.
And from your presentation it looks like the cap rate on the fourth-quarter run rate is about a 7.2? So how does that compare to where you can put capital to work these days? I think our development pipeline Jim mentioned those numbers in the prepared remarks and our pipeline now is 8% to on cash yield and below 9% on a GAAP yield and that's really a combination of MOB and industrial so I think we have pretty descent accretion here.
Great.
Thank you.
We request join [indiscernible].
Please go ahead.
Could you talk about any potential G&amp;A savings given that you're actually everthing several markets here? What really even is lot of those cost that will that our overall overhead will go down but a lot of those costs were really in charge the property anyway.
So not G&amp;A people like our manager group or maintenance group are those costs will go way from the company point of view but that really won't affect G&amp;A.
Again we don’t think there will be a significant effect on G&amp;A because as we really try to try manage that number.
The point is that we are not closing those offices the personnel there will be right sized to continue operate the portfolio but will still have offices in all the cities to run our remaining industrial portfolios and handle development.
So it will importantly go down given the property portfolio size.
Obviously this was a unique situation with one buyer but was there any other potential bidders for this portfolio that you were speaking with? And I'll leave it there for now.
I guess what I would say is this was pretty much unsolicited expression of interest and unsolicited expression of interest turned into an offer when we gave them some information and the answer is yes we have had other unsolicited offers of interest in the portfolio and I will leave with that.
Okay.
And versus your initial expectations of the valuation for these assets where did that come about? Is it on a one-off basis? If you sold all these assets individually I'm sure you would have gotten a little bit of better pricing.
There is obviously pros and cons to that but how close was it to your initial view of valuation? We have stated a lot of time looking at I mean all of our assets per valuation but especially any asset that might be on the same block and I let Nick Anthony share with us today who is chief investment officer and it was really all of the acquisitions and dispositions we have done over the last number of years so I let him tell you little bit about the process we went through looking at evaluation.
We are very active in all of these markets and all of our markets and our capital transaction perspective just to give you a flavour since the last time transaction 2011 another billion dollars of office in all these markets.
So we feel like we have a very good understanding of a property values in these market.
So we spent a lot of time using our existing trades and then other people trade to determine where we can faire pricing areas.
I think the other thing that is sort of unique today is that we are able to deliver a portfolio that is putting clear in debt.
So the buyer can take advantage of existing debt markets to be able to push pricing in their end.
Okay thank you.
Question from Michael Bilerman please go ahead Good afternoon.
[indiscernible] is on with me as well.
Denny Mark I wanted to thank you for the supplemental and pro forming all the schedules as if the assets were sold.
It's very helpful to have from a modeling standpoint as well as from an information perspective.
I also had a question in terms of just to make sure I got all the ducks in a row in terms of the numbers.
You talk about the impact to 2015 FFO and AFFO but you only provide the 2014 numbers.
And I wonder if you can reconcile them a little bit.
You talked about 4Q annualized NOI of 77.4%.
I assume that's a GAAP number which had trended up a lot over the course of the year as you had occupancy build so I wasn't sure what that was in 2015 on a GAAP basis.
And then on a cash basis it would appear as though there's a $0.06 delta and you disclosed $15 million of CapEx for 2014 which is about $0.04 which would indicate about $0.02 of straight-line.
I'm not sure if CapEx was higher next year in terms of what was projected.
Maybe just help reconcile some of the GAAP versus cash cap rate stuff.
See if I can try to answer that.
First of all the NOI that we disclosed in the fourth quarter is actually a cash number.
Now it's actually very close to the GAAP numbers well but the way we do our son will analyze schedules that are in that analyst package it is a cash number.
As you look then forward to 2015 obviously the fourth quarter of 2014 NOI number was a little higher on an annualized basis in the full-year 2014 and that's because of the some leads that we have done in the portfolio during the year.
So we would've anticipated on a GAAP number that $77 million on a quarter basis to be a little bit higher on an annualized basis for 2015.
On top of that because of that we had done a lot of those leases are earlier in the lease term so there is going to be some more straight-line rent on those so there will be some straight-line rent in 2015 we would have got GAAP NOI number a bit higher than the cash NOI number in 2015.
Where as they were similar ’15 so because of that that's why AFFO was not as delusive as FFO because we would not have that as straight line rent would have been added back.
And then the last point I would make that you brought up on CapEx the numbers are what they are we do our best job of budgeting and projecting out for 2015 but we know that it was $15 million of CapEx in ’14 that's down from about 20 million in that portfolio in 2013 and I would tell you that our expectations in ’15 is that it probably would have been closer ’13 number than ’14 number.
So I think we would've expected CapEx by the end of the year and ’15 to be a bit higher than ’14 run rate.
So there are lot of moving pieces there but hopefully that gives you a little bit to help on reconciling between the FFO and FFO dilution.
So how much more would have I mean stating about the cap rate you are effectively saying the cash NOI for ’15 would've been a lot bit higher than what you would analyze the fourth quarter.
I wasn't sure I mean was a big RAM 71.8 for the full year versus 77.4 for the fourth quarter but I wasn't sure how much of that and had been building up over the course of fourth quarter was it kind of like $80 million cash number four ’15 r something more moderate just as we start thinking about what the effective rate really was.
It was more moderate and I think Michael we were not projecting it to be too much higher than that fourth-quarter run rate.
I mean if you think about it we have got the portfolio to 91.6% lease on a lease up basis by the end of the year.
So it was closer to 7 million number.
Right.
$7.2 cash and then basically $20 million of CapEx to drop you down to a $0.06 number? That's in the ballpark.
And in terms of the seller financing talk us through the dynamics and then negotiation a little bit to your desire to at least have some talking some capital at a return better than zero and their desire to get financing and how much confidence do you have in terms of what they're going about in terms of being able to pay that down over the next 24 months? I will start with the little bit on our desires and may be Nick can chime a little bit on what we think may be their strategy is but from our standpoint is really two items affecting of Michael which was as you mentioned parking some cash and something better than zero had so rated you know even above our line of credit rate so there is little bit of benefit they're just working cash on fairly short-term basis and then the other piece to that is this will allow us to treat a portion of the this sale sand stole [ph] myself losing push some of that in the 2016 that has some positive benefits to us as well for being able to do that.
And I think on the sort of financing it was just negotiation or balancing rate and term.
I think the buyers will look at take us out of that at some point 16 and possibly get at forward to then it from their lender that they are using on the rest of portfolio.
And then can you talk a little bit about the debt repayments the $500 million to $700 million.
The footnote says it includes the prepayment penalties and that you're going to target debt with a rate of 5.5% to 6.5%.
Clearly if you were to bake in the prepayment penalties into the rate the yield that you're getting on that debt on the investment is effectively lower.
Can you give us at least some range of prepayment penalties that you are sort of thinking about within that $500 million to $700 million so we can think about the all-in effective return on that debt buyback? Sure Michael.
Its a lot of depend on how we finalize the plan.
And we still see lot of moving pieces here but it was likely will do some sort of debt tender offer or something like I mean obviously we won't know the pricing of that until it closes to the extent we don't get enough debt end from that we have some opportunities you should make also some unsecured and we may take some of the very near term secured debt and go ahead and do prepayment penalties there.
So it is a bit a moving target but I would tell rough numbers it’s probably going into the $40 million to $60 million range give or take based on our best estimates today.
So pretty much about 60 basis points? If you're buying back the debt at 6 it drops down to low to mid-5% in terms of effective return.
And I assume because FASBEE doesn't tell you to treat that as a cost and roll it over the life of any new debt that effectively from an FFO perspective you are going to get the full benefit of the 6% or rather be out of pocket from the capital prospective.
I think that's right Michael and we are going to really focus on our shorter dated maturities here I mean the way we see it it's a good way to delever we don't want a prepayment penalties but the reality is the other option is to have sit on the balance sheet for a while and its interest we would have paid anyway over the short-term and we are going to try to really focus on ’15 and ’15 maturities to the extent we can but I think you're right.
Okay and just last question in terms of the remaining suburban office portfolio just from an NOI perspective obviously half of it's sitting where you guys are in ND and then you have the Cincy piece that you've tried to sell and then the stuff in DC which is suffering in the suburbs that everybody else particularly low leased.
How should we think about those three pieces going forward which is the bulk of the remaining suburban office? I will make couple of comments.
The first is I guess first of all as we have said we have some remaining dispositions.
We have got either currently in the market or shortly to be in the market some of the Cincinnati office assess because there are still older assets down there which has been really on our plan before this transaction.
And in DC you're right it's been a difficult market but we do only on 30% of those assets in a joint venture and some of those actually got sold late last year in the part of fourth quarter proceeds our proceeds were smaller to go and disclose our share and then I take the other pieces we are sitting in one of our Indianapolis office assets right now we like put forward in the Indianapolis.
It has performed very well and is that really where we are.
Thank you.
Thanks Michael.
We have a question from Brendan Maiorana.
Please go ahead.
So Mark sources and uses.
I know you keep saying that the proceeds from the suburban office sale will be used to fund the development activity this year but if I look at excluding the suburban office sale it looks like you've got $400 million to $700 million of dispositions of properties plus another $50 million to $80 million of land so let's call that at the midpoint roughly $600 million.
Your development starts are 400 to 500 and acquisitions are 75 to 150.
Feels like your sources and uses ex the suburban office sale match up pretty well.
Is that a fair way to think about it if I wanted to allocate the suburban office proceeds separately? I think so Brendan.
I mean if we didn’t do the suburban office sale we would be able to fund our development and acquisitions with the rest of our disposition pipeline but then we wouldn’t be able to cover the current year debenture at least.
So I think may be the only missing piece.
We are talking about with the suburban office portfolio: pulling forward some payments may be $2 016 as example.
Understood.
I was a little surprised maybe at the debt prepayment commentary that you gave to Michael just given you've got $250 million that matures I think that unsecured is in February.
And then you've got 175 or so of mortgages that mature so I would imagine those would be part of the 500 million to 700 million of debt repayments which doesn't leave that much left between 500 million and 700 million total.
Maybe that's a couple of hundred million or so.
So if you looked at your ’16 and ’17 expirations that would seem like that would be pretty high prepayment penalties for the remainder? Well like I said we don’t know the number yet.
But if you pull forward call at 500 million a debt I think you are going to be in that $40 million $60 million range on the prepayment penalty.
The thing are our proceed slide on page six presentation we had on the web leases with cash.
So I don't know what money is fungible right that cap may be what was being used that could be used for the development rather than the other disposition proceeds.
So I know there are a lot of moving pieces but we really looking at this like we are going to move forward $500 million with the debt early and then some combination of this remaining cash here the other dispositions will pay our normal maturities early 2015 like that $250 million in February.
Okay.
That was the missing piece.
So that was my misunderstanding.
So this $500 million to $700 million is early prepayments; this excludes your existing 2015 maturities that would come before that? It definitely excludes the 250 million in February.
So your guidance of dilution from this sale of $0.07 to $0.09 that includes timing on prepayment -- you're selling the assets April 1 so you've got nine months nine out of the 12 months of lost NOI from what you're selling.
The prepayment of the debt is that assumed to be in Q1 or Q2 as well or is that programmed for later in the year No it’s like probably mid-Q2.
By that time we would get that executed.
We can’t mash it up perfect.
So it would be called at May timeframe give or take.
Okay.
If I look at what you then have left thinking going forward you've got the $200 million of seller financing where you're only getting L plus 150 so when you get that paid back you can hopefully invest that more accretively? And then you've got another couple hundred million that would be not productive -- not put into work that you could invest as well? That's right Brendan.
I mean this cash or call it 90 million to 320 million that's on our slide that's what we will start with after the after we take care of everything else on the slide and really that cash will set on the book really through the remainder of the 2015 such that by the end ’15 we should really have fully deployed.
But it will trend down it will start higher and it will trend closer to zero by the end of the year.
Okay.
Question on operations.
So same-store guidance is to 2% to 4%.
Not sure if you have a breakout of that by property type.
But it seems given that your rent spreads appear to be pretty strong they were strong last year and I think they -- I would assume that you guys expect to do that again given that occupancy's pretty full.
You've got bumps throughout the majority of your portfolio.
And it looks like your occupancy is flat to maybe up a little bit average 2015 versus 2014.
I would guess that maybe it would you a little bit higher but I wasn't sure if there was something that we're missing there.
I will chime in a bit on this as we just mentioned we have only got 8% of our leases rolling this year from our revenue standpoint.
So any bumps on those we are not going to get much benefit from this year and some of those I mean as you saw I would think that it’s likely we will get some pretty descent rent increases on those but it is not going have a huge impact this year.
And then I think if you look at the overall blended portfolio of run rate increases in the 1.5% to 2.5% range on the stable portfolio.
That's the kind of the run rate that we are look at right now and I think that's still pretty decent increase in same store as we go forward.
And the other piece I would say Brendan it’s really difficult that the environment we are in where are recycling a lot of assets is the target predict what assets are still going to be on the balance sheet at the end of the year to apply that growth.
So the population of what gets old factors in and really makes it a bit more difficult to estimate too quite honestly.
Okay alright thanks for the time.
Question from Dave Rodgers please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Jim maybe I will start with you on development.
You talked about a fairly robust pipeline and new development to start the year but the guidance for new starts this year is down from last year.
So I guess three questions around that.
The first would be your ability and desire to ramp that range up as the year progresses I think the second would be could you talk about your shovel ready returns I thought I heard you quote something and then Denny quoted different numbers so I might have grabbed two different things.
So just to clarify the returns on what the new shovel will be.
And then I guess finally can you give a little color on how build-to-suit opportunities are may be impacting that versus spec and maybe willingness or reluctance to pursue some spec? Okay let me try and take him in the order you put him out there.
In terms of ramping up I would tell you that five to six hundred million dollar range is really kind of the sweet spot.
First of all you know in terms of the construction and the development teams that we had in place that's really what their staffed to do.
We have gotten up a little better about maybe a hundred million about that from time to time but that's really kind of the sweet spot.
We are also very focused on managing that percentage pre-released at the development pipeline and we've been focused on keeping that above 50%.
So it's a combination of build-to-suit opportunities that are out there in the market as the market have gotten much more healthy You have seen more spec development that puts pressure on some of the yields there so I think we are being a little bit conservative in terms of our outlook on build-to-suit side.
We have done little bit more spec development which is more in ’14 and ’13 and I think you'll continue to see us as long as we are able to cover our best on the existing spec continue to pick and chose some market per some spec opportunity.
So I don't think we're in a run out and try and increase our development volume but $200 million to $300 million just because when Mark get little extra cash get in the bag I would be surprised if we could find the number of project particularly on the build-to-suit that will allow us to do that but that doesn’t stop us from looking.
In terms of the returns I'm not sure which ones Danny and I misquoted we might have more than a couple of numbers in front of us here but Mark just handed me another piece and I will just review we've got 497 million of stabilized cost in that development pipeline and the initial cash yield 7.4% and the stabilizing gap yield over the lease term is 8.1%.
We have been comfortably running in that range for the last couple years I think we will continue to see a little bit of downward pressure on the build-to-suit as things get competitive but I don't think we are going to see any serious erosion to that and we are still underwriting very healthy yields on the spec budget that we undertake.
So I like that south Florida office which I am sure got a few people off guard but when you talk about returns they are stabilized returns in the high single to low double digits those are very-very accretive development opportunities in what is a very tight very strong office market.
And Dave what may be we mislead on the numbers.
Jim just quoted here are the returns on our whole development pipeline it’s under construction now and I think in our prepared remarks we quoted the return for starts through the quarter and those returns are a little higher so the start we had in the fourth quarter are even that better return than our overall pipeline and that may have been what we continues here.
And I think the last piece in terms of our quarter to quarter reporting they do fluctuate a bit.
It is really a function of what the mix is between the products and what the mix is between build-to-suit spec.
And we had a great quarter article our healthcare does did a phenomenal job in the fourth quarter with those four projects fifteen year lease and we getting very-very strong returns but again will see what the mix of projects is for the next quarter.
We could have a couple build-to-suit and couple more spec buildings and the numbers can change a little bit quarter to quarter.
But I think annualized I think we're pretty good spot right now.
Jim is the build-to-suit volume coming out in the pipeline just slowing down? I know it's slower percentage of the total but is it slowing down or are you just seeing greater competition? The opportunities are consistently out there.
So I don't think it’s slowing down.
There are few people that have the opportunity to look at spec building because there are more spec buildings out there.
So I think the combination of that and the competitive nature but you know there is still great demand.
If you look at the demand driver today the retailers the e-commerce guys the consumer products companies in the demand for brand-new big state-of-the-art buildings 36/40 ft clear million-square-foot buildings those predominant number of those yield end up as build to suit.
Because of the start alternatives out there.
So continue to see a very healthy pipeline and again I can’t I don’t want to underestimate the opportunities that we see in the medical the on campus and the off-campus MOB development pipeline is very-very healthy for 2015 and we look to be able make a big impact there.
Great.
Two last ones for Mark.
Mark any land sale gains in the guidance? I know there's land proceeds for the year but any gains? Dave we don't give guidance on games because in our core FFO we don’t include games I would tell you we expect games.
If you look at the profit the land that we have sold over the last three years it has been at about 15%.
So I would tell you it's probably going to be somewhere in that range but it's a little harder to predict number one and like then like I say number two since it is not part of core FFO or whatever gains we have to exclude anyway we just don’t really provide guidance on that.
Last one.
You talked about the asset sales you did in 2014 in order to manage your taxable situation you didn't borrow from the 2015 dividend at all to cover that on a tax basis did you? We did not and we had a little bit of excess in fact left over.
Thank you.
Question from Paul Adornato please go ahead.
Thanks good afternoon.
Switching gears could you tell us what you're seeing on the ground in the energy patch and what your expectations are if energy prices remain where they are or perhaps even go lower? Sure Paul.
Let me give you a couple of comments.
Like a lot of us we are conservative about the potential impact particularly to market’s probably most problem would be Houston.
I would tell you that Houston market is in great shape right now.
We very strong demand our existing portfolio is 100% leased with three projects under development one is 50% pre-release and we have leases out not signed but leases out 87% of the space in those other two buildings so there is very good strong robust demand in Houston.
If you look at the spec pipeline it’s actually download a little bit at year-end versus the third quarter while their percentage per lease is actually up slightly so those are I think positive trends for that market in terms of trying to stay healthy.
And then if you really drilled out from our portfolio perspective the percentage of Tennessee in Houston portfolio that are oil and gas related is less than life less than one percent and if you look at even Houston and Dallas I think it’s less than 0.5? Yes.
So it gives we have very minimal exposure directly to the oil and gas industry and I think – it’s going to take a while before any that could possibly trickle down into the industrial markets.
I think some of the office guys are little but more literary in terms of the immediate job impact on the office of the industry but we are not and we are seeing very healthy demand on the industrial.
Okay great.
Okay.
Great.
And looking at overall breakout between the three property types what should we expect going forward? Is this the mix that you are comfortable with or should we expect some additional changes from here? Paul I think you will see that at least initially the sub-urban office percent probably dropped a bit below that percentage we lay out because I mentioned we had some older assets in Cincinnati that we are planning on marketing and right now we don't a big have a development pipeline on this urban office site.
The only one we really have in process that is not part of the sale as the one that Jim mentioned down in south Florida.
I think you will see go down a little bit initially and I think it is for the foreseeable which again for us isn’t necessarily that part of [indiscernible] I think it will stay right above can say right about that level.
Okay.
And Mark you mentioned leverage metrics I think or target metrics for the end of 2015.
Same question.
Are those leverage metrics that we should expect going forward or do you consider the Company underlevered at the end of 2015? Underlevered! That's the line.
No I don’t think we consider ourselves underlevered.
Now I think we expect fixed charge coverage to be right around 3.0 at the end of the year I guess that EBITDA 6.5 or lower that grow assets in the low forties more I look in the lever up from there I can say that.
So I think we can be majored in our approach and discipline and is continue to actually drive those matters even better as we had 2016 without any major kind of transaction.
Okay great thank you.
Question from Eric Frankel please go ahead.
Thank you.
I was hoping you could comment on the financing that the buyer is likely to receive from the suburban office portfolio and the environment for that.
They are currently working on finalizing on those terms but we don't know all the specifics yet but they have selected a lender and are working through all those.
We expect that they will get it will likely be fairly highly levered and pretty lowest interest rate.
Because we don't elect terms.
Okay.
That's to be expected.
Jim can you comment on the composition of the development pipeline that's likely for next year the percent suburban medical office versus industrial? I'm not sure if you stated that before.
No I didn’t.
The development pipeline is all in various stages.
I will tell you the number of opportunities and the development volume for the medical business is probably I would 30% over the opportunities that we saw last year.
So I think we see good up side but it is it is a competitive market out there and you know that the healthcare industry somewhat different from the industrial business is a little bit more time intensive business for the these projects to work away through approval process.
But we see a very healthy increase there.
In terms of the industrial build-to-suits it’s fairly consistently strong what we saw last year and I think we have seen a huge increase.
You could see some big square fluctuations in our pipeline given the size of these deals that we see now with the Wal-Marts and the Amazon to the world that are out there but that that is pretty consistent and then we are just evaluating the local markets in terms of where we want pick and chose spec development and a lot of that is really driven by how quickly we can lease up the existing buildings we have the existing spec building we have out there in the marketplace and we have got a great activity on the pipeline for leasing the spec in Houston a project New Jersey are also have a lot of activity and we would hope to be able to reports some good results.
And then simply function of the major project that will bring online the first quarter at how much lease we get there we get down there and they will make some decisions about where we want to build the spec.
Okay.
Perhaps as you might have done in prior quarters maybe a brief outline on the supply outlook for the US? Industrial? Have you prepared that? We get our preliminary supply numbers in.
I would tell you that it would appear that there was a slight increase in the fourth quarter over the third quarter of about ten million square feet of product– a smaller increase there from the third quarter to the second quarter which was about 20 million square feet building increases are primarily at Atlanta.
Atlanta was probably the last of the tier one markets to fully recover.
They have got about 11 million square feet of speculative project now which is up from about four which on the surface migrates some red flags but Atlanta had about 18 million square feet of net absorption.
So they are it’s very strong and very robust in Atlanta as well.
A lot of other big markets are really pretty much flat Chicago had a very modest increase of about 500 000 square ft stand New Jersey about the same Pennsylvania is actually down slightly Houston is actually down slightly Inland Empire is pretty flat.
Pre-leasing percentage on the portfolio that we are looking at is actually up from about 14.5% to 16.5% so I think on the supply side I have seen just couple of markets.
We think the world is still in pretty good balance.
The other thing I would want to remind everybody and we share these numbers with you from time to time and it is different the industry meetings 120 million square ft of spec compares to 165 million at the peak back in 2007-2008.
So I think were still well under those levels with good percentage pr-released and great positive absorption of the market.
So most everybody is pretty bullish on 2015 and the industrial market.
Great.
I'll jump back in the queue.
Thank you.
And we have a question from Vance Edelsen.
Please go ahead.
Speaking of the industrial market in your conversations with tenants what's the latest tone around lease durations? Is there willingness or even an urgency on their part to lock in for longer as vacancies continue to dwindle? And if you think rents will continue to rise which sounds likely are you at all better served by keeping a lid on lease duration for now so that you can take advantage of stronger rents down the road? How is that dynamic playing out? I don’t think anybody thinks that there is that much consistent and upside and rent growth in the next few years that we are going to strategically shorten our lease terms.
I will tell you most tenants are feel very good about their business the overall economy and are pretty comfortable making longer lease term commitments lot of builders since that we that we do are now are in generally the minimum ten years quoting a lot of 12 and 15 year deal.
So people are pretty comfortable making commitments in terms of lease term activity.
The only uncertainty we get is from tenants that are having a hard time deciding how much growth they need and how much additional space they want lock-in so we have had a number of situation situations where we work with some tenants like that on the short term they are looking at consolidations or looking at build to suit with the more space and it does not quite sure how much more space whether they're contemplating acquisitions or whatever it depends on case-by-case but nobody is making long lease commence today.
The other thing I would report it is almost all of our industrial market today we are getting annual rent bump so that takes out some of the concerns about what are locking in rate today that might go higher next year.
Let me clarify that.
in all of our market we are getting annual rent bumps and with the occupancies in the market what things we have really pushing on for the last year with the increase in those annual escalation and industry-standard in ’13 and going into ’14 was about 2% of annual escalation.
There are a lot of markets given the strength of the polio and where occupancy we have been to push that 2.5%.
So what really kind of protecting our long term interest in those buildings.
Now I would like to turn the conference back to Ron Hubbard for closing comments.
I would like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
We look forward to following up with more view off line and see many of you during the year end conferences as well as open to see regional markets.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Duke Realty Quarterly Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Ron Hubbard.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and CEO; Jim Connor Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Denien Chief Financial Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we refer you to our December 31 2014 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I will turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight our key metrics for the quarter and some of our thoughts on the overall real estate and economic environment.
Jim Conner will give you an update on our leasing activity and development status.
I will review our disposition activity including some of the major transactions that closed just after quarter end in April and Mark will then address our first quarter financial performance and balance sheet activity.
We followed up our very strong 2014 with a solid start to 2015.
We signed 6.5 million square feet of leases in the first quarter and ended with overall occupancy at 94.5% including projects under development.
The occupancy of our in-service portfolio was 96%.
Rents and renewal leases for the quarter grew by nearly 8.4% reflecting continued strong and supply demand fundamentals and pricing power.
We started $80 million of new bulk industrial development projects and we have a strong backlog of both industrial and medical office projects and expect development starts to accelerate in the coming quarters.
With the closing of the previously announced $1.1 billion office sale bulk distribution now makes up over 70% of our total NOI and medical office is approaching 20%.
The overall fundamentals and operating environment for our business remains strong.
On the industrial front our occupancies remained at or near historic highs.
New supply in substantially all markets is in balance and demand for modern bulk space is still high.
Our outlook is for these fundamentals to continue to be favorable for the remainder of 2015.
The medical office development business is also seeing a significant pickup in demand driven by major hospitals adjusting their service delivery models.
At this point in the cycle we see continued opportunities to create value through our development platform.
Now I will turn it over to Jim to give you some color on our first quarter operations.
Thanks Denny.
Operationally we had another solid quarter with leasing of 6.5 million square feet as Denny noted earlier.
Our total in-service occupancy ended the quarter at 96%.
That's up 70 basis points from the previous quarter.
Our tenant retention was high at 77% and our rental rate growth on renewals continues to be strong across the portfolio with growth of 8.4%.
We're very focused on pushing rents throughout the portfolio in particular on the industrial side.
Now let me touch on some of the key activity within each of our product types.
With respect to our industrial portfolio we continue to see fundamentals improve with completion of 6.2 million square feet of total leasing including 1.2 million square feet of build-to-suit or partially preleased developments and 842 000 square feet of leasing in our recently completed spec projects.
Overall industrial market fundamentals remain positive with 21 of our 22 markets at 94% occupancy or better and all realizing positive market rent growth.
In-service occupancy in the bulk industrial portfolio at the end of the quarter was 96.8%.
That's up 100 basis points over a year ago.
Compared to the general market vacancy in 22 markets our in-service occupancy is outperforming those markets by 330 basis points.
Regarding specific lease activity we signed six deals totaling 842 000 square feet in four speculative projects in Houston and northern New Jersey.
Two notable leases including a 358 000 square foot lease with McKesson Corporation to occupy 100% of our Gateway Northwest One project in Houston and a 282 000 square foot lease with a food and beverage company to lease 57% of one of our two speculative projects in our Legacy Commerce Center in Linden New Jersey.
We also signed three other leases totaling 144 000 square feet to bring the second speculative project in Linden to 100% leased.
With these leases occupancy in Houston has improved from 86.2% at year-end to 98.4% and New Jersey has improved from 73% to 83.8% which is evidence we continue to deliver on speculative projects ahead of pro forma.
Also contributing to growth in our industrial occupancy were four new leases signed in Savannah totaling 692 000 square feet bringing occupancy up there to 94.7% from a year-end occupancy of 85.9%.
With the tightening of conditions across most of our markets and high occupancies in our own portfolio we continue to be able to push rents as indicated by the rent growth on renewal in our industrial leases of nearly 9% which is a range which we expect to be able to maintain throughout 2015.
Now let me touch on the medical office portfolio.
We continue to have strong momentum with our in-service occupancy remaining at 94.2% and a robust list of prospects for future development to go along with our existing development pipeline.
The development fundamentals for modern medical space coupled with long-term leases with rent escalations and top tier tenant roster provide an excellent risk-adjusted return component to our overall portfolio.
I would also like to make an announcement on a leadership transition in our medical office platform.
Jim Bremner the President of our Healthcare division will be stepping down this summer after leading the reins of that business for the last 10 years.
Looking back Jim and his deeply talented team grew our healthcare business from just under 800 000 square feet and nine buildings in 2007 to over 6 million square feet and 77 buildings today representing 18% of our overall business.
On behalf of the Duke Realty team we want to acknowledge Jim's great leadership and hard work in growing the platform his flawless execution of strategic and profitable investment and development transactions and an appreciation for his cultivation of a very deep and talented medical office leadership team.
As many of you know or have seen firsthand in our markets Duke Realty has always been very focused on talent development and retention of the best professionals in the business.
With this we're pleased to announce that Keith Konkoli an 18-year veteran of Duke Realty will assume leadership of the Healthcare team effective July 1 2015.
Keith has been a leader and an integral part of our healthcare business for the past seven years.
We have the utmost confidence that Keith will assume this new leadership role and continue to generate profitable relationship-driven medical developments with our premier healthcare system clients.
As Denny alluded earlier Keith and his team have a very strong pipeline of the development deals for 2015 and beyond.
We also note that Jim Bremner is not going away completely.
Jim will enter into a consulting agreement with us for the next year to help assist with any transition needs.
Let me also say that the team of professionals at our medical office have risen to be one of the very best development franchises of the country a development franchise that has fit very well into the Duke Realty culture of being reliable highly-trusted partners.
While operationally there may not be many synergies between the medical office and industrial business the medical office niche is a complementary growth business from a development and construction franchise perspective particularly the build-to-suit strategy.
And medical is complementary from the long-term durable nature of cash flows perspective very similar to our bulk industrial product.
Turning to development for the quarter we started 80 million square feet of build-to-suit and partially preleased projects totaling 1.3 million square feet with a weighted average GAAP yield of 7%.
As Denny noted we have a very solid pipeline for prospects for the remainder of the year.
We started two projects in Chicago in our Butterfield Corporate Park totaling 742 000 feet.
Both facilities were 100% preleased build-to-suits for Shorr Packaging and Fellowes corporation with lease terms of 12 and 10 years respectively.
We also started a 451 000 square foot build-to-suit project in our AllPoints Midwest Park in Indianapolis.
This facility is 100% preleased to Integrated Distribution Services for a term of over 13 years.
Finally in Washington DC we started a 94 000 square foot industrial project at our TransDulles Center near Dulles International Airport.
That facility is 57% preleased.
On the land side during the quarter we sold $35 million of nonstrategic parcels at a book gain of $5.5 million or a 16% margin.
Additionally we monetized another 14 million of land in related development projects.
From an overall development pipeline perspective at quarter end we have 19 projects under construction totaling 5.2 million square feet and a projected $405 million in stabilized costs at our share that are 55% preleased.
These projects have an initial cash yield of 7.1% and a GAAP yield of 7.8% and provide evidence of our ability to create significant value as they are being developed at high-teens margins of value over cost.
Given that we have title land positions that can support roughly 48 million square feet of bulk industrial product and given our relationships and track record at winning major build-to-suit proposals with top customers our development platform is in a dominant position to drive incremental cash flow growth over the long haul.
I will now turn it back over to Denny to cover our investment activities for the quarter.
Thanks Jim.
With respect to the investment activity we closed $161 million of dispositions during the quarter including transactions that represented the completion of our exit from the Cleveland office market and the exit from the retail property sector.
Further on the disposition front we announced early in April that we successfully closed a $1.1 billion suburban office portfolio sale to an affiliate of Starwood Capital that was originally announced in late January.
The transaction divests all the company's wholly-owned in-service suburban office properties located in Nashville Raleigh South Florida and St.
Louis and is consistent with our strategy of opportunistically reducing our investment in suburban office.
After the closing of the Starwood office sale our percent of NOI from suburban office is down to roughly 12% and in the context of our 2015 earnings guidance and disposition strategy suburban office should be in the single digit percentage by year-end.
Let me also once more frame the office sales strategy as follows.
The abundance of private capital chasing commercial real estate now and given the unencumbered nature of the portfolio which made it attractive from the buyer's perspective we firmly believe the execution pricing and the use of the proceeds toward industrial and MOB development and towards significant balance sheet deleveraging is a big win for our shareholders.
Also just after the Starwood closing in mid-April we closed on a 5.2 million square foot older industrial portfolio primarily located in the Midwest generating proceeds of $270 million.
This transaction represents the majority of the 5.9 million square foot Midwest industrial portfolio we began marketing in the fourth quarter of 2014 and as we've previously disclosed on the October and January earnings calls.
The other 700 000 square feet of this portfolio was sold in a separate transaction in the first quarter.
The average age of these industrial properties was 23 years compared to 10 years for the remainder of our industrial portfolio.
With these two post-quarter transactions dispositions for the year already total $1.5 billion just below the midpoint of our guidance.
The remaining dispositions for the year will be focused on additional suburban office properties.
So with that I will now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our financial results and capital transactions.
Thanks Denny.
Core FFO was $0.31 per share for the first quarter of 2015 compared to $0.30 per share for the fourth quarter of 2014.
The increase in FFO was primarily due to realizing the benefit of the full-quarter dividend savings from the preferred stock redemptions that we completed in late 2014.
In addition to the preferred dividend savings the increase of $0.03 per share and the $0.28 per share of core FFO reported in the first quarter of 2014 was driven by improved occupancy and rental rate growth as well as the impact of developments being placed in service.
We generated $0.28 per share in core AFFO for the quarter which equates to a dividend payout ratio of 61%.
Same property NOI growth for the 12 and three months ended March 31 2015 was 5.4% and 6.8% respectively.
Same property operating expenses decreased from prior periods due to milder winter conditions the first quarter of 2015 but this was generally offset by a decrease in reimbursement revenue so this did not really have a significant impact on overall net operating income.
The significant growth for the quarter in NOI was mainly due to our positive results in driving occupancy higher and rental rate growth.
We anticipate that same property growth for the remainder of 2015 will moderate a bit from the first quarter level as occupancy growth slows but will continue to be strong which resulted in our increased guidance for the year.
As Denny noted shortly after the end of the quarter we closed on a $1.1 billion suburban office portfolio disposition and a $270 million Midwest bulk industrial portfolio disposition.
Using the proceeds from these transactions we've repurchased $425 million of face value unsecured notes as part of a $500 million debt tender offer repaid a significant portion of our unsecured line of credit repaid an additional $137 million of secured debt and still retained enough cash to cover our capital needs for the rest of the year.
All of these capital transactions coupled with our operational performance resulted in a continued trend of improvement in our key financial metrics.
We reported a fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.7 times for the quarter ended March 31 2015 and we expect fixed charge coverage to approximate 3.0 times by the end of the year.
Net debt to EBITDA for the rolling 12 months ended March 31 2015 was 6.9 times compared to the 7.8 times that we reported for the rolling 12 months ended one year ago.
After adjusting for the April dispositions and debt repayments pro forma net debt to EBITDA for the three months ended March 31 2015 is down to 6.2 times.
We're very proud of the progress we have made in improving our overall leverage profile and having reported another strong quarter.
With that I will turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Mark.
Yesterday we narrowed our guidance for FFO per share for 2015 to $1.13 to $1.19 and also raised our guidance for adjusted funds from operations per share to $0.98 to $1.04 per share.
We also raised same property guidance from a range of 2% to 4% up to a range of 3% to 5% and raised our average occupancy guidance by 50 basis points to 95% to 96%.
With solid results in the first quarter and capital markets execution in April we set the stage for a continued strong 2015 and beyond.
I would also like to personally thank Jim Bremner for all his efforts on behalf of Duke Realty.
It's been a great partnership between Jim and I and he has built a terrific business for Duke Realty that will continue to grow under Keith's leadership.
In closing I will reiterate that we believe our team and our portfolio is in a unique position to take advantage of the strong fundamentals in our businesses.
The value creation potential for shareholders is very high.
We thank you again for your interest and support of Duke Realty.
We will now open up the lines to the audience and we ask that participants to keep the dialogue to one question or perhaps two very short questions.
You are of course welcome to get back in queue.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And we will go to the line of Vance Edelson.
Please go ahead.
So with the weaker GDP figures just out there has been a lot of talk about the temporary impact from West Coast labor disputes and the severe weather in other parts of the country.
Your leasing activity was obviously quite strong in the first quarter so do you think there was any material impact from any nonrecurring events that might have weighed on GDP? Or do you feel more like it was business as usual for Duke? Vance I will tell you I think it's been business as usual.
There's been a lot of dialogue particularly about the ports of LA and Long Beach.
The quarter-end numbers that have just been posted out of California are very encouraging.
March was the strongest month ever for the Port of Long Beach and the second-strongest month ever for the Port of LA so clearly they are clearing up that backlog quicker than anticipated.
We were recently told as of 10 days ago there were only five ships waiting in the bay; that's down from 30-some.
So I think that's one of those temporary things that happens every 5 to 10 years.
It gets worked out and we're back to business as usual.
I think if you drill down into the markets and you look at some of the absorption numbers in LA particularly the Inland Empire very very strong numbers for the first quarter.
Inland Empire had 4 million square feet of net absorption.
For those of you keeping track that is a 400 million square foot market so that's 1% net absorption in one quarter.
And then just for my second short question you mentioned the strong office pricing making this a good time to divest.
What can you tell us about the demand for land and your experience selling the 147 acres? You pocketed a modest gain there.
Were you pleased with the bidding and have land prices continued to climb this year? I think as you would logically follow with the amount of development that we're seeing in all sectors across the country now is a great time for us to sell land.
So we have been very active in selling primarily office land as well as some of the nonstrategic industrial land or some residual pieces that we might have.
We were very pleased with the pricing and the amount of activity in the first quarter and what we believe is a very strong pipeline to continue to move that land for the rest of the year.
We will go next to the line of Jamie Feldman.
So Denny in your prepared remarks I think you said that you feel good about operations through the end of the year and we're in April already.
I'm just curious if you have any window at this point on supply pipelines as we head into 2016.
I know it's taking longer to build these days and entitlements are harder to come by so just any preliminary thoughts? I'm going to let Jim respond to that because we -- in all of our markets that we're in we very closely track all the I will call [Technical Difficulty] plan developments.
Our local market guys pretty much know what's going on so Jim will give you some color on that.
Sure.
Jamie just a couple of bullet points that I think we all see from the service providers and the different research companies.
On the supply side supply is up about 9% in the first quarter but at the same time vacancy across the country is down.
It's roughly 8.5%.
You had totally last year 117 million of new supply and 130 million square feet of net absorption so I think all the market dynamics are functioning well.
And until we see a quarter or two of slowdown or narrowing of that gap I think everybody is pretty optimistic right now that the foreseeable future looks pretty good.
Okay.
And then we have seen a lot of institutional capital flowing into the sector.
Any interest in selling off portfolios of higher quality warehouse given where pricing has moved? No Jamie I don't think so.
You know that -- I don't think there's anybody in the business that has sold more than we have over the last four or five years.
The good news is we have really cleaned up the portfolio.
And I say this and I think people are beginning to believe me; that we've got the highest quality industrial and highest quality medical office portfolios in the business today.
And that now makes up 70% of our NOI -- excuse me almost 90% of our NOI.
So we're very comfortable with that portfolio.
It's performing really on an outstanding basis.
As I noted in the remarks we have still got a bit of office to sell and really what we have left after this is just some office properties in Cincinnati and Indianapolis and then some miscellaneous joint venture office assets that are spread around the country where we're a minority partner in basically all of those.
So right now we're focused on marketing some of the Cincinnati office assets that we have remaining and we're seeing pretty good activity on that.
Then the other thing we did obviously was with this what we call the Midwest industrial package we really cleaned up the industrial portfolio.
So we're very pleased with where we're and like our ability to really grow our earnings from this portfolio going forward.
We will go next to the line of Ki Bin Kim.
Please go ahead.
Can you maybe comment on how you view your portfolio quality compared to that of the KTR deal that recently transacted? And if you want -- and feel free to comment on your opinion on the cap rate on that deal if you thought it was in line with your expectations or lower or higher.
Well I always hesitate to comment on what other people are doing but I'll give you a few thoughts here.
I think we obviously looked at the disclosure that was made on that transaction; it's always helpful to understand what's going on in the market like I'm sure you all did.
I believe the number was KTR's portfolio was average age of 18 years.
Prologis I think pre was 23 years so they are averaging down to 21 or something like that.
As I mentioned in our remarks after this most recent sale of our -- the smaller older industrial stuff we're at about a 10-year average age.
Now having said that age doesn't always matter.
It is location and particularly in high barrier industrial markets older properties generally do very well.
I would say if I'm looking at the KTR portfolio we know that portfolio reasonably well because we compete with those guys and have known them for a long time.
They have a pretty good older I would say properties in places like New Jersey some in Southern California some in a couple submarkets in Chicago that are older properties but they are very good properties.
They had really grown their portfolio over the last couple years with development projects which they hadn't really done very much of before that.
One of their bigger customers was Amazon.
They have done a lot of development for Amazon over the last couple of years and of course we have done a lot of development with Amazon over the last few years too.
So those were some of the newer modern bulk facilities.
Guess what I would say is I think overall it was generally a good portfolio.
It was quite a mixed portfolio.
Ours really is today focused on the modern bulk newer projects and as you can see they are doing extremely well when you look at our occupancy.
As far as the cap rate goes even I would say everybody can see all the transactions that are out there.
I would say that was a reasonably aggressive cap rate but there's a lot of pretty aggressive people chasing industrial product today so cap rates I think continue to compress.
I am not one to try to predict what the right cap rate is but it certainly looked like it was a line generally with the transactions we have seen in the market here lately.
That was all really helpful color.
Just one last thing one last question for me.
You have really transformed the portfolio over the past three years in a pretty dramatic way.
It looks like it's largely done the major pieces that had to move but if a deal of something similar of KTR's size or quality came to the market would you be highly interested in that? Or at the point where you are do you think you know what you don't need to do megadeal like that and maybe just incremental one-off acquisitions and development is where you want to spend most of your time on? So how do you balance maybe the two different possible options you have? I would say for us the issue today I think on doing a major transaction a little bit is pricing.
Pricing is pretty aggressive out there.
So for a major transaction for us if there was one out there I think it would have to have a lot of significant strategic advantages for us.
And what I would define those as generally speaking is it would have to really expand our portfolio in some of the markets that we don't have a big presence in today.
Then I think we would consider it but we don't feel like we have to do anything.
As I said we're in great shape now that we've completed this repositioning.
We have terrific development capabilities within this company.
We have a great reputation on the development side.
We have a land bank that is in excellent position for us to do industrial development really in all the major markets.
And clearly in today's market I would say development yields on the industrial side have gotten a bit compressed too but there's still a significant gap between the development yields and what you can buy anything at today.
We're very happy at this point in the cycle doing the development funding it wisely and keeping our balance sheet in great shape as we look forward to the next part of the cycle.
We will go next to the line of Eric Frankel.
I was hoping you can give a bit of a breakdown of some of the dispositions that you've executed during the quarter and then the bigger industrial portfolio outside the quarter.
If you could provide little bit more cap rate color just to get an understanding of where those traded.
Thanks.
Yes let me get the list here Eric.
And you know just we try not to disclose specific transactions.
We have been very cautious about that for competitive reasons and for buyers' reasons but I would say just some color on this.
As I mentioned in prepared remarks the industrial portfolio got split out between two buyers because we have one buyer that was very interested in the Minneapolis assets and the other buyer that we had didn't really -- wasn't -- they didn't need to have those assets I guess.
They were fine with not -- closing of the rest of the portfolio without those.
So we did close in the first quarter on the Minneapolis portion of that industrial which is about 100 000 square feet.
Cap rate on that was kind of in the mid-6%s so I think we did obviously very well on that.
And then we also as we said sold the rest of the office buildings in Cleveland and we sold the shops at Montage.
Those were obviously higher cap rate assets and the occupancy was generally pretty low in those so the in-place cap rate on those was in the high single digits.
I would say between the 9% and 10% range.
And then overall for the first quarter we were at about 8.1%.
We essentially disclose sort of the cap rate on a suburban office sale.
You can see the NOI that we had taken out and we put it in the back of the supplemental this time.
The NOI that we took out in both the fourth quarter and the first quarter annualized there and that's very similar to how we showed the economics of the transaction with the Blackstone sale three or four years ago now.
So I think that one's pretty self-explanatory.
And then I think we also did very well on the Midwest the rest of the Midwest industrial sale that closed in early April.
And that cap rate we will disclose.
You will see that in the second quarter but I think for the type of portfolio that it was as we said it was an average of 23 years old and basically just over 100 000 square foot buildings.
I can't remember exactly what it was because I'm still looking at the first quarter stuff but it was I think a very competitive pricing.
Eric the only other thing I would add on those -- especially on the projects in the first quarter those were all if you just think about it Cleveland office and the Montage retail were all very capital-intensive projects.
So on a cash basis the cap rate on those is a lot lower than the leasing OI cap rate.
Yes their occupancy was low and it would cost you a lot of money to get the occupancy in those up.
Just a final question on Jim's departure from the MLB business.
Maybe you could expand a little bit more on the platform you have there and the team you have in place and just the confidence of keeping the business going as you have for the past 10 years or I should say about eight years since you formally bought the business from him.
I will start then I'll let Jim chime in.
That has been a very stable business.
Jim has been as we both said a terrific leader of that and really built a great business but he really has built a great team.
He had a great team that he brought with him when he came to Duke as you said about eight years ago now and a number of those folks are still with us and are planning on staying with us.
I would say even though the leader Keith Konkoli was with Duke pretty much right after the Bremner team came onboard Keith moved over to work with them and has been an integral part of that.
And then three of the other key leaders of that group going forward are all folks that came to Duke with Jim.
So we've got great people there and I think we've got great customer relationships that we will continue to move forward.
So we're not really worried about continuing the momentum in that business that we have built.
I think the only other thing as we transition to Keith that team is very deep as Denny alluded to.
Our senior leadership there is going to stay the same in terms of the asset management finance construction and development leadership.
All those guys have been in place so we think from that perspective it's very stable and we don't think we will lose any ground on the development pipeline that we've got out there.
And next we will go to the line of Brendan Maiorana.
Please go ahead.
Your guidance outlook -- so your same-store is up 100 basis points.
Your average occupancy is up 50 AFFO is up $0.01 at the midpoint and FFO is unchanged at the midpoint.
Is it sort of the better NOI growth offset by earlier-than-expected dispositions or something on the capital plan? That is actually the main thing Brendan.
Our guidance on dispositions for the year was $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion and we've already closed $1.5 billion so we're already at the low end of the guidance.
So I think it's pretty safe to assume we're trending much closer to the top end of the guidance and maybe even a little bit above that from a disposition side.
And not only at the top end or a little above but then your next point was right on as well the timing of it.
As Denny mentioned we're ready have several office assets on the market right now in Cincinnati and at the beginning of the year when we gave guidance we were probably looking more towards the end of the year to get some of those deals closed.
Now I think we're thinking more like maybe even the end of the second quarter.
So it's more about extra dispositions and earlier timing of dispositions that offset some of the good operating results.
The other thing I would point out I think I mentioned this briefly we're still sitting on some cash through these office dispositions because we want to fund our development pipeline here for the rest of the year without having to go back to the capital markets.
So there is little bit of drag sitting on some cash for the next six months or so as well.
Okay.
And just point of clarification.
Average occupancy 95% to 96% for the year.
Does that compare to average commenced occupancy of 95.1% during Q1 or is that the ending lease-up occupancy of 96.0%? No it does not compare to the 96.0%.
It compares to your first number.
Okay so average kind of moves up a little bit during the year.
It's an average lease-up basis Brendan not an average commencement and not an ending lease-up.
I know we throw a lot of those numbers around.
So it's average lease signed that 95% to 96% which compares to -- I believe we were at 94.5% last year as an example.
Okay.
And then just last one the development projects that came online were in line with your average yield last quarter so it was 7.4 last quarter 7.4 is what came online.
The overall yield came down to 7.1 on the pipeline.
Is it more competitive out there in terms of projects either build-to-suit or spec which is having yield compression hit had current projects that are coming online? Yes the competition is out there but I would tell you that is a very very small component.
I would make a couple of points.
I would not read too much into the change in numbers from quarter to quarter because there's a handful of things that change one of which is the number of build- to-suits versus the number of spec that we have.
Clearly the yields on build-to-suit are going to be lower than those on spec.
It's a mix of industrial versus MLB how many we've got at any given time.
The other big contributing factor is how much of the active projects are in Tier 1 markets versus Tier 2 markets.
And then the last two points I would make if you go back and you are looking at some of the historical numbers from years gone by or even a few quarters ago we had some office development mixed in there that had generally some very high yields on it.
Then the last point I would make is just you have to remember in some cases some of those yields are a little bit more compressed because we never impaired any of the land was held for development.
So some of that land was land that we bought back in the peak in maybe 2007 or 2008 and have carried it for a little while but we're putting it in at our (inaudible) without any impairment an developing it.
And those are the true adjusted yields.
And we will go next to line of Dave Rodgers.
Please go ahead.
Yes this is Stephen Dye here with Dave.
I'm going to switch gears back to kind of some more macro commentary specifically with regards to the Midwest.
You just disposed of maybe your non-core portfolio there.
But Indianapolis and Chicago are they seeing strength really from demand from online vendors? And in general can you just comment on the demand dynamics across the various Midwest markets? Thanks.
Sure Steve.
E-commerce continues to be a big driver in our business so you will see not only the big-name retailers continuing to demand space.
And that's not only existing space spec space but also build-to-suits.
But it's beyond that.
I would tell you that retail in general is still very strong.
Food food and beverage all the food-related services companies are up.
The other contributing vector is just the 3PLs which are doing more business with all of the different consumer products companies across the country.
And then with regards to the suburban office portfolio moving into the single digits in terms of NOI by year-end; is there any opportunity there or does that go to zero at some point in the future? And do you have any guidance on that timing? Well I would say we don't know whether it's going to zero yet.
As I mentioned we're basically -- I think you will see us exit the Cincinnati market here over time probably over the next 12 to 18 months.
The joint ventures will play out with our partners since they're controlling.
So the only assets we will have are in Indianapolis which is obviously our hometown.
We're actually sitting in one of our office buildings right now which I enjoy being my own landlord.
But there are a few Indianapolis a couple Indianapolis office projects that we will sell here.
Part of the issue is as Mark was saying we don't need the money right now because of the two major transactions we just closed this month.
We're trying to time the sales with our needs of funds.
Again I think -- and the only other thing I would point out there is we have just a bit of office land left around the system.
As Jim said we sold a lot of it.
We continue to sell a lot of it.
We sold some that will come through in the second quarter as part of what we're calling the Starwood transaction.
But we do have a speculative project going up in South Florida and I think we can do two more buildings on that.
And that market is still very very hot so we will likely develop those out and then decide what to do with them when that's complete.
As far as opportunity yes there is a little bit there but we're really now just focused on building the industrial MOBs.
We will go next to the line of Mike Salinsky.
Please go ahead.
So you got the balance sheet where you want right now.
You are sitting on cash.
Development pipeline is churning out good value creation and acquisitions you are pretty aggressive just in light of the KTR transaction.
Any thoughts of potentially ramping up development a bit? You are still delivering over 7% spread.
I mean if you look where the KTR transaction is in place I think you're talking almost 200 basis points of spread right there yet you've got leverage now so you've taken risk -- you've reduced the risk profile.
So just curious as to any thoughts internally about that.
It all depends on who you ask.
I would tell you yes we could ramp up.
We could do five or six spec projects and take that development pipeline up but we would just be taking on that much more risk.
You'd see that prelease percentage of that development pipeline fall dramatically from where it is now at 55%.
Most of us in this room anyway remember what happened in the market in 2008 when we all had plenty of spec development out there.
We have been trying to be a little bit restrained and just manage that pipeline.
We like it in that $500 million to $700 million range.
We can continue to get some more build-to-suits.
I think you'll see us tee up some more spec project because we have been covering our bets; as we reported this quarter and I think we talked a little bit about last quarter.
The success we had in Houston and New Jersey with those four projects essentially being about 80% leased in total.
The next round are -- we've got a few under construction right now but we will evaluate the market this summer and see where else we want to make some bets.
Then just as my follow-up.
In light of the KTR transaction and the pricing on that is your expectation you will see more hit the market in the back half of the year? Just talking with local guys right now is that kind of an eye-popping price? Do you think that's going to motivate more product on the market than we're seeing currently? Well there is always a fair amount of industrial product out in the market but more in smaller one-off or smaller portfolios.
You just don't see the big portfolios that often.
There aren't that many of them out there.
So I don't think that transaction Mike is really going to trigger a big flurry of some other kind of activity here.
Because everybody now kind of knows who the major industrial players are out there.
There has been a fair amount of consolidation when you look at it over the last few years in the U.S.
industrial market.
A lot of it is still in institutional ownership hands; it won't trade much.
So I don't think just that transaction itself would trigger a big flurry of other people saying.
I think you will see continued assets out in the market maybe a larger portfolio or two here but I don't think a whole lot is going to change.
Thank you.
We will go next to the line of Michael Bilerman.
Please go ahead.
Denny I'm just curious as you think about the KTR deal and one of the big things that drove their pricing obviously was the ability to bring in [indiscernible] for 45% and have the asset management platform and create the fee off of that.
I'm curious as you look at the transaction the ability to effectively get 60 million more square feet well over a 40% increase to your platform which is already the second-largest industrial platform in the U.S.
was there any appetite for you to find a capital partner and be able to bring that in-house? Mike the answer to that is no not really.
I would just say this.
I think our business model as to where we're in our lifecycle here whatever you want to call it is probably fairly significantly different than where Prologis is and their business.
Obviously a big part of their business is aggregating assets and generating fees doing development to sell into the funds as well as operating the portfolio.
We're not looking to be a fee-generating company.
We want to have the best real estate and give people -- give our investors return on the real estate assets and create value for our own -- for our shareholders by owning great assets long term that we develop.
And for us I guess what I would say is -- one thing I would say that we probably don't really agree with is that we need to be significantly bigger to chase deals with the big major customers out there.
We have relationships with all the major customers.
We've done deals with them all.
They know us.
I don't feel like I need 60 million more square feet to do that.
Now if I can find 60 million square feet that I really like and would like to own for the next 10 15 years that I think is going to perform very well in the right markets then that is a transaction I would be interested in.
But to use somebody else's money to generate fees that's just not the business model we're running right now.
You talked a little bit about how the Amazon exposure that you have; obviously your largest tenant was KTR's largest tenant.
If you think about the developments the build-to-suits that you pursued with Amazon versus what they did was there any difference in the lease structure or differences in assets? Because I assume you had probably a look at those build-to-suits as well.
I'm just curious as you think about your Amazon efforts versus those or others that are in the marketplace.
Well we don't specifically know probably the terms of their deals.
We probably have some pretty good ideas on most of them but I guess what I would tell you is a couple things on that kind of business and then Jim can chime in too.
It's driven by a couple things.
One is land positions.
If you have the land position where these customers want to be then you are going to get the business.
All these major customers and I'm not just referring to Amazon here but I think all these big players in the e-commerce business now want to have major -- have good relationships with several major developers.
They are not putting all their eggs in one basket so they are spreading these deals around and you have seen other REITs do them.
We did them.
KTR does them.
Other folks do them and I think that is -- from their point of view it's a good business philosophy.
And then from our point of view too we have been very select on where we build those and only really doing them in the major distribution markets because a number of those big e-commerce build-to-suits have been done in what I would call tertiary markets.
And we're not really interested in that.
And then I guess the last thing I would add is I think the terms -- the industry has evolved is the terms on these big e-commerce distribution centers from a lease structure standpoint have evolved to be relatively standard.
They differ from market to market based on pricing and cost of development but the structures are all fairly similar.
Right.
Can I sneak one other quick one in? Just on the operating expenses and I apologize if I missed this on the call was there anything that drove that down to 2 in the quarter? I know last year was -- had some obviously weather issues on the East Coast.
I just didn't know if there was anything particular this quarter versus last year that would have caused a 2% decline in OpEx.
Yes Michael.
It's all weather-related.
While I know places like Boston had a very bad 2015 we really didn't have it in our markets compared to 2014.
We had a ton of snow and actually colder weather driving up heating and things like that in 2014 so it's all weather related.
I would tell you that if you back about that out that negative 2% change in operating expenses would've probably been more like a 2% increase in operating expenses.
But what I did say in my opening remarks all of those operating expenses are really offset by a decrease in reimbursement revenue as well.
It doesn't look like it in our supplemental because the revenue number is so much bigger.
So if you have a dollar of operating expenses and you recover that same dollar it has much less of a percentage impact on the revenues than it does the expense side.
So the expenses look a little bit out of whack but from a net operating income basis that whole story is really negligible.
And we will go to the line of John Guinee.
Please go ahead.
Quick question Denny.
On the dividend and special dividends etc.
back of the envelope it looks like you guys are going to make a lot of money in 2015 and REIT rules usually require that to be taxed.
Can you kind of walk through what that's looking like? Well I will start and then Mark can chime in and correct me here John.
One of the things we did when we structured the Starwood transaction that you all saw was we structured it as an installment sale basically for tax purposes.
That's really what that $200 million of seller financing did for us.
And that won't be paid until sometime in 2016.
They can pay it off anytime during 2016.
And so that will defer some of the gain on that transaction fairly significant portion into 2016.
Then we have some possible 1031 transactions.
We put some money in escrow from that sale as Mark said to fund.
I think acquisitions probably won't be very significant this year but even a few acquisitions can move that taxable number pretty far.
We can do some 1031s with that.
Then third there are some ways to use 1031 when you're doing some development if you are buying land or something like that.
So we think we can use some.
Truth is John we're not really going to know exactly where we're on that until later in the year when all these other transactions occur.
The sale occurred and we know what the gain is.
We just don't know how much we're going to be able to push back into that to the deferral piece between now and year-end.
John the only other thing I would add to that is we have traditionally had a very conservative methodology on how we treat certain things from a tax perspective mainly depreciation expense.
And quite frankly it's because we didn't need any -- we didn't need to accelerate depreciation expense or anything like that because we have never really bumped up against a special dividend issue before.
So we're in the process of just getting started to take a look to see if there are some alternative methodologies we can implement from a tax perspective that may accelerate some depreciation and lower our taxable income and also reduce any special dividend requirement that way.
So with all that moving around and going on and what I will call the 1031 clock having just started a week ago Denny's right; we're not going to have a lot more clarity around with that number may be for probably at least another three to five months.
[Operator Instructions].
And speakers there are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at the NAREIT conference in June in a little over a month.
Or if not we will reconvene during our second-quarter call and it will be scheduled for July 30.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Duke Realty Quarterly Earnings Conference Call [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ron Hubbard of VP Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Linda.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and CEO; Jim Connor Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Denien Chief Financial Officer.
Before we make prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we will refer you to our December 31 2014 10-K that we have in file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I will turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments for the quarter and then Jim Conner will give you an update on our leasing and development activity.
I will review our asset recycling transactions and Mark will then address our second quarter financial performance and balance sheet.
We signed 4 million square feet of leases and finished the quarter at 95.8% in service occupancy rate the fourth consecutive quarter we have been above 95%.
Rent growth on renewal leases was very strong at 15% driven by our industrial assets which grew by 19%.
Same property growth was near to mid 6% level.
We started $257 million of new developments across 13 projects at solid yields and closed $1.4 million in dispositions in the second quarter both exceeding our expectations for mid-year.
We also completed the previously announced $500 million bond tender offer that significantly bolstered our balance sheet.
By all accounts this represents a very strong quarter.
Now I’ll turn it over to Jim to give a little more color on our leasing activity and development pipeline.
Thanks Denny and good afternoon everyone.
From an operational standpoint we had a solid quarter leasing at 4 million square feet as Denny noted while this is down from quarterly historic norms it’s a reflection of continued record high occupancies in our portfolio with little space left to lease.
Total in-service occupancy ended at 95.8% this is down just a bit from previous quarter as we expected due to development projects delivered during the quarter that were already 56% leased.
Excluding these development projects that were placed in service we actually increased the occupancy of our stabilized portfolio by 50 basis points.
Rental rate growth rate on renewals continues to improve across the portfolio for the growth of 14.9% which reflects our continued pricing power.
Now I’ll touch on some of the key activity within each of our product types.
Nationally the industrial markets strength continues with quarterly absorption of 40 million square feet.
And we were pleased to learn that the year-to-date absorption pace is similar to the average of the previous two years a good indication that the markets continue to absorb new supply.
Nation-wide vacancies for logistics base dropped 20 basis points from the previous quarter to in the low 8% range.
In our own industrial portfolio we completed 3.6 million square feet of total leasing ending the second quarter at 96.3%.
Occupancy dipped slightly from the previous quarter primarily due to a 937 000 square foot speculative facility that delivered during the quarter.
Project in which we have good activity for all of the space.
Rental rate continues to remain - rental rate growth remains extremely strong with growth in net effective rent on industrial lease renewals of 19% for the quarter.
In medical office the portfolio continues its positive trajectory with in-service occupancy at 94.9% that is 80 basis points above a year ago and at historic high for that portfolio.
Same property NOI was up 5.7% on a trailing 12 month basis.
The pipeline for prospects for new facilities in the medical office space is also seeing an uptick as healthcare systems continue to come into new expansions.
In development we had a tremendous quarter with $257 million of starts totalling 3.6 million square feet.
Two of the larger projects commenced were speculative bulk industrial developments in the Lehigh Valley and in Atlanta totalling 1.1 million and 615 000 square feet respectively.
These the sub markets in which both these projects are located are characterized by strong industrial demand fundamentals.
In addition we started eight other industrial projects across six markets comprising 1.7 million square feet which was 59% preleased in the aggregate.
In medical office development we had a strong quarter with $73 million in starts we started two medical office facilities in Denver totalling 92 000 square feet both 100% preleased for 15 years to a venture between Emerus SCL Health.
the third project was a 76 000 square foot on campus facility in McKinney Texas that is 50% preleased to Baylor Scott &amp; White Health one of the leading healthcare systems in Texas this represents our 17th development here we have executed with Baylor over the last six years a testament to our excellent relationship with Baylor.
Our overall development pipeline at quarter end has 27 projects under construction totalling 6.5 million square feet and a projected 547 million in stabilized cost at our share and a 45% preleased in the aggregate.
I will note that previous percentage has dipped a little below our recent average which is a bit impacted by the mix of projects coming in and out of the pool this quarter at a broader context our development risk management goal is to be around 50% or greater of the overall pipeline to be preleased.
These 27 projects have an initial cash stabilized yield of 7.1% and a GAAP yield of 7.8% which highlights the strong value creation being made for our shareholders.
We also had a deep pipeline of development prospects including many industrial builder suit and substantially preleased MOB projects which will likely bring our leasing pipeline back above 50% in the third quarter even without considering new additional leasing in the pipeline.
We also continued our strong progress in selling non-strategic land during the quarter we sold another $35.7 million of non-strategic parcels at a booking of $16.2 million bringing our total land sales year-to-date to $71 million already exceeding our initial full year expectations.
And now I will turn it back over to Denny to cover our asset recycling activities.
With respect to investment activity we closed 1.7 billion of building dispositions during the quarter at an overall average in-place cap rate of 7.0% these proceeds were primarily the result of the previously announced Starwood suburban office in Midwest industrial portfolio transactions.
We have a number of other assets in various stages of the disposition process significant portion of our remaining suburban office assets in Cincinnati are under contract and expected to close in the third quarter.
We are also marketing some office assets in other markets and a few additional non-core industrial properties.
The current investment sales market remains strong and we believe that continuing to improving the portfolio is a prudent way to fund our development pipeline.
With this activity our disposition expectations for the year have increased which I’ll be touching in just a moment.
One acquisition during the quarter was the newly constructed 233 000 square foot modern bulk industrial facility located West Hills Business Park in the Lehigh Valley region of pennsylvania which further expands our presence in that growing market for Duke Realty.
I’ll now turn the call over to Mark to discuss the financial results and capital plans.
Thank you Denny.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Denny mentioned I’d like to provide an update on our financial performance and review our capital transactions.
Core FFO was $0.20 per share for the second quarter of 2015 compared to $0.31 per share for the first quarter of 2015.
The increase in core FFO was primarily due to recurring a smaller based properties for the quarter that resulted in a significant dispositions Denny just mentioned.
Lower interest expense from our significant debt reductions in improved operating fundamentals in our remaining base of properties partially offset this impact.
I would also like to point out that core FFO excludes approximately $7 million of overhead restructuring charges which are primarily comprised of severance charges from staffing changes resulting from the significant reduction in the size of the office portfolio.
Our annual guidance for general administrative expenses does not include these restructuring charges.
We generated $0.25 per share and AFFO for the second quarter of 2015 which equates to an AFFO pay ratio of 68% compared to $0.28 per share in the first quarter of 2015.
As we have said we are more focused on AFFO growth than FFO growth.
And even with the significant depositions and significant deleveraging our AFFO growth was for the full six months as 8% and we expect solid AFFO growth for the reminder of the year.
Same property NOI growth for the 12 and three months ended June 30 2015 was 6.3% from 6.2% respectively.
The same property results were driven by both increased commencement occupancy and growth in rent rates.
Occupancy growth will slow in the latter half of the year and we still expect strong rent growth which led to our increase since property and like growth guidance of 75 basis points at the mid-point.
Utilizing our disposition proceeds we repaid over $1 billion of debt in the second quarter.
this includes $431 million of unsecured notes that had a weighted average interest rate of 6.8% and severance secured loans totaling $137 million which had a weighted average interest rate of 5.3%.
We also repaid $453 million on a rent secured line of credit finishing in the quarter would no outstanding borrowings on the line and almost a $120 million of cash.
All of these capital transactions coupled with our strong operational performance resulted in continued improvements in our key financial metrics.
Fixed charge coverage for the second quarter improved to 2.9 times.
Net debt to EBITDA for the 3 months ended June 30 2015 was 6.3 times.
We expect to see continued improvement throughout the year in these metrics as new development replacement services and speculative development leased up.
To summarize the transactions results for the quarter I would say that we believe we are in a very strong liquidity position and are well positioned to further development pipeline and next opportunity which is in March 2016 without any external capital needs.
With that I’ll turn it back over to Denny.
Thanks Mark.
In review the first half of the year with an outlook for the second half and given the strong execution on development sides starts by our team and our ability to take advantage of a continued strong investment sales environment yesterday we raised our development starts guidance to $550 million to $700 million that’s up $175 million from the original mid-point.
We also raised disposition guidance to $1.8 billion to $2 billion up $250 million from the previous mid-point.
Land sale guidance was increased to $80 million to $120 million that’s up $35 million from the previous mid-point.
And due to continued strong overall operating fundamentals we raised our same property NOI growth guidance to a range of 4.0% to 5.5% up 75 basis points from the previous mid-point.
As noted in yesterday’s earnings release additional detail on revisions to certain guidance factors can we found in the Investor Relations section of our website.
So in closing I would like to point out that the second quarter of 2015 was another transformational quarter for Duke Realty.
The closing at the Starwood office sale as well as our strong level of development start significantly advanced our goal are being a primarily a bulk industrial company with an excellent value creation medical office development business.
By year end 2015 those two product types will comprised well over 90% of our business with excellent growth prospectus.
We also have an excellent value achieved that we intend to maintain into the future.
Thanks is always to our great team and our loyal shareholders.
We’ll now open up the lines for questions and we ask the participants keep the dialogue to one question or perhaps two very short questions.
You are of course welcome to get back in the queue.
And with that we’ll take questions.
Okay Linda.
[Operator Instructions] and we’ll go directly to the line of Juan Sanabria.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
I was just hoping you could speak a little bit about further dispositions you may have planned beyond 2015 what other assets may be considered non-core and if you could try to help us frame dollar value around that and if you have any sort of update on the possibility of having an pay a special dividend and kind of some other gains were deferred whether the transactions were structured.
Well first of all I think when you look at dispositions we’re not compared to give 2016 guidance yet because its still quite always way but you can see us I think continued to sell the remaining office product that we have and as we said we’re really downsizing that business not will be a tremendous left after the end of 2015 but there will still be some and some of those will be are in joint ventures which will just going to roll out over time and not necessarily in 2016 and also I think you’ll see us perhaps strategically take advantage if the markets stays where it is today to harvest some value from the existing industrial portfolio in a few cases.
So and that’s a general trend again I think we have to way to we get closure to 2016 to give you real guidance.
And the as far as special dividend goes I’ll turn that over to Mark to answer that once.
Yes its as we early said for the last two to four months its going to be difficult to really pin a number down so we get really out in the September which is when the 1031 period expires on some of the proceeds but I would say as that’s not a material portion of it.
I think you comment about deferred in the substantial portion of the gain on the Starwood transactions through the solid financing is the point that lot of people loose side of that does differ significant portion of the gain in the 16 it really helps our position.
The other point that I think people don’t clearly understand here is the tax strategies we have available to us to accelerate some depreciation and take advantage of something’s like that so long storage sort we don’t have a number yet but I would tell you that if there is a special dividend I don’t think it will be significant at all.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Manny Korchman.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys good afternoon.
Just looking at your development schedule in your supplemental and you often - the projected value creation with the blended 594 cap rate I was wondering if you could share with us assumptions by property type but what you think that cap rates from value creation perspectives.
Well I’ll start and then I let Jim as well Manny I mean I guess I would tell that from you look at from a margin perspective and I would tell you that probably the highest margin right now in that value creations on the office side but it’s obviously a very low number it’s really one or two projects and suspect project we have down in Florida but when you look at both the medical office and the industrial they’re really pretty consistent they’re in the high teens to low 20% range.
Yes I would add to that it’s not only driven by the product type but it’s driven by the specific market so clearly exit cap rates in Southern California are going to be different then perhaps Indianapolis the on-campus 100% leased medical office are going to be different than those that have a reset component to it but we go through a building by building breakdown to come up with that and the point is we’ve shared with you guys consistently in all of our investor meetings is we have got a great track record of basically producing about 20% margins on all of our development year-over-year and we continue to see that trend.
Okay.
And then if you could switch to your land position based on the geographic perspective do you think you’re appropriately positioned or should we see buying more lands over the next quarters or months? Well I think you’ll see our long-term trend is to continue to try and reduce our overall land holdings.
We’ve got approval of land that we’ve determined to be non-strategic that we’re holding for sale that is not being actively marketed that is a lot of what you saw sell this quarter and we hope to continue to report significant sales like that in the second and third quarter and then we’re also monetizing additional land through our new development.
We have been buying land but the good news is we’re selling and developing a lot more land that we’re buying.
So net-net we are reducing our overall land holdings that we hope to continue to be able to do that.
Thanks guys.
We’ll now go to the line of Vance Edelson.
Your line is open.
Great thanks for taking the questions.
So your own occupancy already very solid on the industrial side as you mentioned would you say that competitor occupancies are starting to catch up especially among some of the more mom and pop or local type players in your markets and is that part of what is driving the strong rental rate growth on renewals is that helping at all? Yes Vance I think so I think w could say a rising tide rises all ships as everybody’s occupancy continues to grow up demand continues to outpace supply nationally we saw overall industrial vacancies declined another 20 basis points.
So everybody is taking advantage of that opportunity it’s just a function of how aggressively you want to push on a rental rate side we just come off a great quarter where our teams have been - have really been able to push particularly on the renewal side you saw with those numbers we posted.
Okay fair enough.
And then just a quick follow-up the retention rate was a little lower at 67% versus recent quarters when you do lose tenants can you give us a feel for the mix of reasons is this increasingly you nudging them out or they telling you they are moving to cheaper space or they struggling in this economy what are some of the more typical reasons? Probably the number one reason for us which is again a function of the high occupancy is not having available space to be able to accommodate just the organic growth or consolidations of existing tenants.
That is why you see in some of the markets where we have extremely high occupancy we have to build spec space just to be able to handle organic growth within the portfolio.
We do have some tenants that are - that are not comfortable with the rental rates that we’re able to push and those are seeking less expensive space alternatives but we are able to backfill that space at today’s market rents.
So we’re comfortable taking that risk which is but we’re - our guys are out there doing every day.
Vance I would point out to the 67% as a raw as a percentage is a bit lower than we were running up but the amount of space we had rolling was also very low so I wouldn’t read too much into that number the gross square feet - is not a big number.
Okay and that is good color.
Thanks guys.
And we’ll now go to Brendan Maiorana please go ahead.
Thanks good afternoon.
I don’t know if this is for Mark or Denny but so you guys have more assets that sounds like you would like to sell and then maybe you are going to be opportunistic and sell into strong pricing market.
Your debt to EBITDA is in the low six now which is what I think you guys have targeted a few years ago when you had thought improve the balance sheet.
As you think about balance sheet going forward leverage outlook do you think leverage maybe moved even lower over the next year or two and you kind of head into whenever the downturn in this cycle hits with the even lower leverage or do you think you kind of hold platform where you are now.
Well Brendan I’ll start and Mark join me and I would say a lot of it probably depends on the level of our development pipeline.
Because we still think today that it’s a really good use of those disposition proceeds to put it back into the development pipeline so as long as that pipeline holds up I think our sales are kind of going to be in line with that going forward for at least the near term future here.
And then just as far as the overall balance sheet I’ll let Mark comment.
Yes.
I agree with Denny.
I think I have to agree with Denny but I do...
He’ll have you fired.
So I said I think I have to agree yes.
I think you could Brendan see it getting a little bit better from all this right now over the next 12 months or so like Denny said and ultimately depands how quickly or how much that moves based on the development pipeline is probably the biggest factor right now.
I don’t think you will see it going north of where it is but you could see it going getting even better from where it is now and then we’ll be positioned when the next downturn comes whenever that is to take advantage of other opportunities.
So if I hear you guys right it sounds like you are disposition outlook is driven may be a bit more by the opportunities that are on the development pipeline not about maybe selling assets that you think or have value that’s maximized if you don’t really have a great use of those proceeds.
No.
it’s not what I meant to say if you understood that way Brendan.
I think we know kind of the assets we want to sell but whether we use that those proceeds to pay down debt or fund development is the real questions.
So again it really depends on how big our development pipeline is.
So it could go either way.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks for the clarification.
I’ll get back in the queue.
Thanks.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll not go to the line of John Guinee.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
I was just looking at your joint venture page and you sold one of the Texas Dugan JV I guess.
Where are you on chambers street I think they are about to be merged in with Gramercy and you’ve got up 80/20 JV with them.
Yes John.
I mean we paired that joint venture down pretty significantly too over the last couple of years.
They bought a cloud of some of the assets.
So now own them a 100% and the joint venture sold some assets so for the most part it’s just some industrial build - tenant industrial buildings left in there.
I have to say that at this point in time we really havent hand any detailed discussions with whoever is going to be running the new combined company as to what’s there and again so almost everything in there with I think you are still maybe a couple office buildings left about most of it is built to suite industrials so our sense today is joint ventures is going to keep going.
Is there a buy/sell take certain.
No.
There isn’t.
not an overall buy-sell there is some provisions that at one part once we sell there is provisions that’s how it works but that is not really a buy/sell.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
And we do have a follow-up from the line of Juan Sanabria.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks again for taking the question.
Just with regards to your current landback how much development opportunities does that allowed you to do overtime.
And at the current land prices if you had to grow on the market and sort of replenish keeping in mind you are trying to sell some land.
What type of returns would you be able to generate at the current market rates? The Mark is flipping pages to pull up the development capacity notes.
So yeah from the development perspective we could develop about $37.5 million square feet.
On the land that we have and I guess I’ll start with the value perspective and Jim - I don’t really have a yield number or anything like that because as Jim said earlier on another question that really various market-by-market but I will tell you from the value perspective we believe that’s our book based in that land is probably under market value by 15% 20% or so give or take.
Well I wanted to answer differently I would tell you that if you look at the gains this quarter based on the sales we’ve have got a great basis in all our existing land.
Your question about opportunities to buy land in the future for future development.
I would tell you again if you look at our development track record on the overall margins we’re not interested in buying a land going forward and reduce in those margins so any land that we buy the development models and the rents that are supporting those that we are putting together have to be consistent with those margins which is we’ve been able to show you guys have been 18% to 20% over the last few years and we don’t anticipate buying a land it’s going to reduce that.
One thing I would add is that virtually all that land those that develop per square feet that Mark mentioned is industrial 35 square feet And just a quick question on the MOP leasing spread anything unusual that drove that pretty high number this quarter anything or is that just a small sample size that we shouldn’t necessarily read too much into it.
I think it’s that such a stable portfolio it’s a fairly small sample size so I would read much into it beyond that.
Thanks.
Next we will go to the line of Ki Bin Kim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks could you just comment on your projected lease spreads throughout this year or maybe I think more importantly next year does advantage of leases become more favorable in next year versus this year just trying to get a grasp of how things might trend going forward.
Yeah ki I will take that - that the deals that we did in the second quarter about 55% of the deals that we signed in the second quarter or rollovers that we originally signed between 2009 and 2011 so little over half.
As we look forward to the next 18 months which is how we look at and I think we’ve said pretty consistently.
The advantage of leases from 2009 2011 for the next 18 months represent 38% of the leases rolling.
So you can see that the what I call the [indiscernible] leases are starting to get smaller as a sample size that what we are going to be doing.
So I think it’s fair to the thing from debt 19% industrial renewal rate that we had this quarter it will be hard to sustain probably 19% but I would also point out that even the deals that we did that we are not signed 12 we still getting good record from all the deals.
But 19% is probably going to be hard to be for the next 12 to 18 months.
Okay that’s helpful.
And second question can you comment on the IT portfolio that GLP’s and talks to take down I mean obviously that’s a big portfolio for your company to have observed but just curious if you had a chance to look at on any thoughts on regarding that will be helpful.
Yes Ki Bin we did take a look at that they been working I would say IIT has been working on and trying to get something done but I would say at least 18 months maybe a little longer than that so back early on in that process we were either ask or invited or how we want to put to look at it and we did look at it but at the time and we the pricing wasn’t that they were expecting really wasn’t in the ballpark what we we well into pace so we are familiar with portfolio I would say it’s a good portfolio and generally speaking so good transaction I guess what I would say.
Yes.
I think it’s sort of again sort of sets the pricing what is going on in the industrial space today there has been a lot of significant and smaller transactions out there and certainly shows I think that these cap rates are definitely holding in the industrial space today.
And just hypothetically if you did end up buying a portfolio that similar size would it be in theory just on fully on balance sheet or would you typically seek a capital partner for such a size to that kind of value? Well I think that’s pretty hypothetical Ki Bin.
So I’m not sure how to answer that but I guess I would say it depends it would depend on the portfolio it would depend on the pricing it would depend on the timing where our share prices were trading and what our net asset value was and a lot of different things as to what we try to do with the portfolio out there or like that? Okay.
That’s it from me.
Thank you.
All right.
And next we will go to line of Brendan Maiorana please go ahead.
Thanks Jim.
So on the developed - you mentioned development pipeline you like to keep it around 50% preleased and you’re little bit below that now.
Is that - does that 50% threshold or target or whatever vary by property type because it feels like your MOB stuff is largely build-to-suit and looks like you’ve done a little bit more on the spec side with industrial just over the past couple of quarters? So that goal is a goal in aggregate and it is made up of those two components the medical side is historically much higher we haven’t seen I don’t think we have seen any development opportunities in medical where the preleasing component was less than 50%.
Most of those are really averaging probably 75% preleased by the hospital system anything that we would contemplate off-campus but aligned would still have to be 100% lease so that is the trend that we’re seeing going forward in our healthcare portfolio.
So I think you’ll continue to see that at those same kind of levels and in the industrial we’ve gotten comfortable with where our portfolios are in some of these different markets we continue to see demand outpace supply so the timing was such that we had a couple of more spec project this quarter and a couple of large ones.
So we saw that that was going to dip down I think we alerted most of our analyst investment committee to that in NAREIT that that was probably going to dip down this quarter but looking at the pipeline I think we expect that to comeback in the third and fourth quarter to levels that we’re comfortable with.
The other thing I would point out on that preleasing.
We quote those numbers on a square foot basis.
So and because we have a high dollar per foot investment in the MOB and if you looked at it on a dollar invested basis it’s actually higher than the way we reported as far as our preleasing percentages.
So that’s another thing we kind of keep in mind to.
Okay.
That’s a good point.
Thanks Mark.
And then Jim maybe just a follow-up on that.
From a market perspective are there any markets where you feel like you would be uncomfortable doing spec either from a market or submarket perspective just given where the supply and demand dynamics maybe.
Yes.
There is a few of them out there.
A lot of it is first and foremost it’s driven by the performance of our overall portfolio where we are as an entire company where we are in that particular city and where we are in that particular submarket.
But we’ve been asked that question from time-to-time.
We would be a little uncomfortable right now doing a big spec project in Dallas for example.
We are watching Houston and the [indiscernible] fairly closely yes with most of those - in all three of those markets they posted very good net positive absorption numbers for the second quarter.
So the trend line continues to be good but there is a lot of specs based out there in those markets.
So we’re watching them.
Sure.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
End of Q&amp;A [Operator Instructions] I would like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
We look forward to reconvening during our third quarter call tentatively scheduled for October 29.
Thank you everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the Duke Realty Third Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a quarter-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Ron Hubbard Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
Joining me today are Denny Oklak Chairman and CEO; Jim Connor Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Denien Chief Financial Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2014 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Denny Oklak.
Thank you Ron.
Good afternoon everyone.
Today I will highlight some of our key accomplishments for the quarter and then Jim Connor will give you an update on our leasing activity and development pipeline and then Mark will address our third quarter financial performance.
We closed $250 million of property dispositions during the quarter at an overall average in place cap rate of 7.1%.
These proceeds were primarily the result of two major transactions.
In a continuation of our strategy to reduce our remaining suburban office investment we sold a six building portfolio comprising 1 million square feet in Cincinnati.
We were very pleased with the execution on this transaction given the property’s age occupancy and rollover schedule.
At quarter end this leaves about 900 000 square feet of suburban office properties in Cincinnati that are all being marketed now and much of which is expected to close around year end.
We believe we timed the investment sales market well on the divestiture from this market.
After this sale substantially all of our remaining wholly owned suburban office product will be located in Indianapolis our home town.
The second large disposition was a 1 million square feet modern vault ecommerce industrial facility located in Delaware that we developed as a built to suit a few years ago.
While the facility fits our portfolio quality profile the location is a bit tertiary and we believe it’s prudent to take advantage of the exceptionally strong market for modern class A industrial product and strategically harvest some value for our shareholders.
We’re also pleased with the execution on this opportunistic sale at a nice margin on a recently completed development.
We also closed on the sale of a couple smaller projects during the quarter and looking into the fourth quarter we believe we’ll be near the high end of 2015 guidance on dispositions.
We’ve also mentioned on the last few calls our expectations to continue to sell our remaining suburban office assets as a continuation of our strategy to focus on industrial investment in top tier markets in select medical office developments.
In addition we’ve also been consistent communicated our intentions to self-fund our development pipeline with dispositions of suburban office properties as well as select industrial asset sales much like we executed in the third quarter.
We believe our ability to execute this strategy to self-fund development during times like now when there’s a bit of capital market volatility and a public to private equity discount is a great advantage for us.
In fact we believe as the current market conditions process from a robust private market investment sales standpoint we should be able to dispose of another $500 million to $800 million of assets next year in 2016.
Let me state that this is not our official 2016 guidance that we will deliver to you in late January yet this range is in our very early thoughts for next year.
I would point out that dispositions at this level would not only likely kind of our development pipeline for 2016 but would also cover most if not all of the $368 million of debt that we had maturing next year.
This would greatly reduce if not entirely eliminate any capital needs in 2016 further improve our already strong leverage profile and continue to raise the overall quality of our operating portfolio.
Even with these dispositions we are confident in our ability to grow our AFFO per share in 2016.
In light of that as noted in yesterday’s press release we are pleased to announce a 5.9% increase to our regular quarterly dividend.
This increase is driven by our repositioned portfolio which we believe will perform extremely well in good times and bad.
Also with respect to dividends we announced yesterday a special dividend in the amount of $0.20 per share or about $69 million.
This dividend is driven by taxable gains on $1.7 million of dispositions year-to-date along with additional dispositions we expect to close by year end.
As we mentioned from the time we announced other Starwood sale we wouldn’t know how much if any special dividend would be necessary until later in the year.
We implemented various tax paying strategies such as seller financing to reduce the special dividends to a relatively small amount.
Nonetheless we’re happy to provide this return to our shareholders.
Later in the call Mark will discuss our near-term capital plan outlook which takes into account these distribution changes.
Now I’ll turn it over to Jim Connor to give a little more color on our leasing activity and development pipeline.
Thanks Denny.
From an operational standpoint we had another solid quarter of leasing totaling nearly 4.5 million square feet.
While this is down from our historic levels it’s a reflection of our continued record high occupancies in the portfolio with little space left to lease.
Rent growth on renewal leases was strong at 13% representing continued landlord pricing power.
Total in-service occupancy ended at 95.8% flat compared to the previous quarter as lease expirations were essentially offset by solid leasing.
Now let me summarize a few key market fundamentals and then I’ll close with our development activities.
Nationally the industrial market momentum continues to be very strong.
Demand outpaced supply for the 22nd straight quarter.
In the third quarter the U.S.
industrial market has 58 million square feet of positive net absorption bringing year-to-date totals to 175 million square feet.
Supply remained in check at 38 million square feet delivered during the quarter consequently vacancy rates fell by 20 basis points to 9.6% overall.
Most of our markets are having record years including the Inland Empire which had 6.2 million square feet of leasing in the third quarter bringing their year-to-date total to almost 35 million square feet or 4.5 million square feet more than all of 2014.
Turning to development we generated $110 million of starts during the quarter across five industrial projects and one medical office project.
These new developments span markets such as South Florida Baltimore Pennsylvania and Minneapolis and we’re 60% preleased in the aggregate.
Our overall development pipeline at the quarter end has 31 projects under construction totally 7.2 million square feet and a projected $639 million in stabilized costs at our share they’re 47% preleased in the aggregate.
The activity on the vacant portion of this pipeline is very strong across the system as our pipeline for build to suit prospects that should improve the occupancy in our development pipeline in future quarters.
We also continue to make significant process -- progress in selling non-strategic land during the quarter.
We’ve sold another $23 million bringing total land sales year-to-date to $94 million prompting the increase to our land sales guidance for the year.
And now let me turn it over to Mark to discuss our financial results and the capital plan.
Thanks Jim.
Core FFO was $0.29 per share for the third quarter 2015 compared to $0.28 per share for the second quarter.
The increase in core FFO was primarily due to continued improvement in operating results and the impact of developments being placed in-service which were partially offset by the dilution from continued dispositions.
We generated $0.23 per share in AFFO for the third quarter compared to $0.25 per share in the second quarter which is in line with our annual AFFO per share expectations.
The decrease in AFFO per share from the second quarter was due to increased capital expenditures during the quarter as a result of the timing of lease commencements.
Looking out to the fourth quarter we expect our CapEx to be lower than it was in the third quarter.
Same-property NOI growth for the 12 and three months ended September 30 2015 was 5.4% and 3.0% respectively.
These same-property results were driven by the increased commencement occupancy and growth in rental rates.
Current quarter NOI growth was negatively impacted by about 40 basis points due to some bad debt recoveries in the 2014 period.
As noted on the prior call occupancy growth has slowed a bit in the latter half of the year.
We still expect strong rent growth and we’re still comfortable to meet our full year expectations.
I will point out that today our non-same property NOI represents roughly 18% of our total NOI and we have significant NOI upside from occupancy growth in those properties.
So there’s solid overall NOI upside as we look forward.
We ended the third quarter with over $217 million in cash because of this cash position and expected fourth quarter disposition proceeds we gave notice of our intent to payoff the $150 million 5.5% unsecured notes that were due March 1 2016.
This redemption is expected to settle tomorrow.
We will also use a portion of this cash to fund the repayment in order to fund the payment of the special dividend that Denny mentioned.
Our credit profile at the end of the third quarter continued to improve as well using the proceeds from disposition activity to reduce leverage along with improved rental income from operations resulted in fixed charge coverage for the third quarter improving to 3.0 times and net debt-to-EBITDA from the three months ended September 30th improved to 5.9 times.
We expect to see further improvement in these metrics during the fourth quarter with the bond payoff and as new developments are placed in-service and speculative developments are leased up.
I would like to take just a moment to address our loan related issue in one of our unconsolidated joint ventures that owns a portfolio of office properties in the Washington DC area where we are the 30% minority partner.
This joint venture has a $203 million interest-only non-recourse CMBS loan of which our share is approximately $60 million.
Due to recent lease expiration in one of the properties secured by this loan the joint venture did not make a scheduled principle payment during the quarter and the loan was placed in default because the value of the properties is below the outstanding loan amount the joint venture elected not to continue to fund that service.
The joint venture and the lender have been working together to effectuate a smooth transfer of ownership of the underlying properties to the loan servicer.
This transaction has little to no impact to operating results and will actually improve our leverage ratios due to the high loan to value nature of these properties also there is no impact to any of our other debt facilities due to the non-recourse nature of this joint venture loan.
Now I’ll turn the call back over to Denny.
Thanks Mark.
In review of the year-to-date results and outlook for the remainder of the year yesterday we raised the low end of guidance for FFO per share by $0.02 per share narrowing the 2015 range to a $1.15 to a $1.19 per share effectively raising the midpoint by $0.01.
We also narrowed the AFFO per share to a range of a $1.00 to a $1.02 per share.
In addition earnings -- into the earnings guidance changes we raised the narrow land sales guidance from a range of $80 million to $120 million to a range of $100 million to $130 million up $15 million from the previous midpoint.
Also as a result of the highly competitive acquisition market we reduced our acquisition guidance to $25 million to $50 million a $75 million reduction again at the midpoint.
As noted in yesterday’s earnings release additional detail on revisions to certain guidance factors can be found in the Investor Relations section of our website including the back page of our quarterly supplemental package which is a new disclosure this quarter.
Let me reemphasize we once again are proud to have a company with a rock solid balance sheet and a low AFFO pay out ratio position to support raising the regular quarterly common dividend 5.9%.
Looking forward we’re optimistic that the entire Duke Realty team and investment in best-in-class assets can generate steady AFFO growth per share through the economic cycles.
We’ll now open the lines up to the audience and we ask participants to keep the dialogue to one question or perhaps two very short questions and you are of course welcome to get back into the queue.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And first we will go to the line of Manny Korchman.
Hi.
Just think about MLBs for a second given all the changes sort of in the healthcare landscape and what’s been happening with hospitals just wondering if you see any changes on the MLB side of the business? Hi Manny.
It’s Jim Connor.
I’ll take that.
I would tell you that the outlook for the entire healthcare industry from our perspective is very very positive and healthcare systems and hospitals continue to make capital investments.
MLBs and ambulatory care facilities lead most investment categories for hospital systems around the country.
So I would tell you it has a very bright outlook and we think we’re very well-positioned to continue to grow that portfolio.
And my other question is on you mentioned the dispositions for next year you also mentioned it’s not guidance? But what would be the composition of that if you could give us sort of first glance? Well I think you can assume that a significant portion that will be some of the remaining office assets there.
Again I think opportunistically selling some industrial assets or cleaning up a little bit of the industrial portfolio will be a relatively minor piece of that but there could be some so mostly office.
That’s it for me.
Thank you.
Next we will go to the line of Brendan Maiorana.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
So Jim or Denny $550 million to $700 million of development starts this year.
It sounds like you guys feel pretty good about the demand outlook that exists out there in your portfolio? As you’re thinking about the next year or so is that a pretty good annual run rate or do you think you sort of step off the gas a little bit and if you think things are a little bit riskier out there? Hi Brendan.
This is Jim again.
I would tell you late in the year looking out into next year we’re reasonably optimistic that the landscape is going to stay the same.
I would tell you that if we take our foot off the gas it will be on the speculative side.
As I referenced earlier in my comments we have a very strong built to suit pipeline and that’s both in the industry and the medical business because as you all know the medical business really looks and acts pretty much like build to suits.
So if we see a slowing or we get concerned about our in-service occupancies we’ll let up on the spec development that will be first and foremost.
Okay.
So and then just related to that for Mark so it sounds like you guys expect to be towards the high end of the disposition guidance for this year so maybe that’s another $250 million of proceeds on dispositions this year? And then if I just take sort of the midpoint of that $500 to $800 of possibility for next year that’s about $900 million by the end of next year so that’s probably a little more than your spend on the development pipeline? Is it -- is that a fair way to characterize it and do you think as we sit here a year from now or the end of next year your leverage is going to be lower than where it is today? I think that’s a very fair way to look at it Brendan.
After we called the March 16 notes that we’ll payoff tomorrow and we’re using cash already have on hand for that we’re left with about $360 million of debt next year.
So you take $360 million of debt and the midpoint of that kind of development of $500 million $700 million something like that that gets closer to the $900 million you just talked about.
So we really believe that through the disposition process we can fund the development and maybe not all but most if not all of the debt that’s coming through next year which would then leave us with a better balance sheet than we have today even.
Great.
Thanks.
We’ll go to the line of Juan Sanabria.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
I was just hoping you could speak to maybe the occupancy expectations as we end the year and if that’s the biggest variable in your same-store NOI range for the balance of this year given what you’ve achieved year-to-date? I’ll start with it Juan and then Jim can chime in.
But we do have quite a bit of new development coming online in the fourth quarter.
So I am not really talking about same-property occupancy I am talking about overall in-service occupancy if you look at the page in our supplemental that list when our developments are coming in line.
In the fourth quarter we have about 1.7 million square feet coming online it’s only 16% occupied.
So that pipeline right there is what’s going to drive our occupancy most likely down a little bit at year end from where we stand today and that will drive our average occupancy for the year down just a little bit but you know we’re still very comfortable probably midpoint to upper half of our occupancy range for the year.
And then from a same-property perspective that population just talked about obviously won’t impact same-property because it’s new property.
I think you could see the occupancy in the same-property to be relatively flat from where we are right now.
So we continue to measure ourselves against the higher base from the previous year because of all the occupancy lease up that we’ve done.
So that’s what putting a little bit of pressure on that same-property NOI growth and maybe Jim can speak more generally on overall leasing prospects? Yeah.
I would -- only other comment that I would make is we have just a couple of leases rolling at the end of the year that we know we’re not going to renew.
So really we control our own destiny in terms of as Mark said leasing up the develop that’s coming in service and we have a lot of activity and as I alluded to earlier a lot of strong demand in the marketplace.
So I think we’re confident that we are continue to lease that spec space up that’s coming in service and continue to hold those high occupancies that you’re seeing.
Great.
And just a quick follow up with regards to the expirees next year how do you see those placed relative to market as we think maybe about same-store NOI growth and then sort of flat occupancy type world? Well as we talked at NAREIT and many of the other conferences we kind of break all the lease roll-up into three different tranches.
Looking out the next 18 months and that’s a time period that we’ve referenced a number of times before in different conversations 25% of the leases that are rolling in the next 18 months were leases that were signed in the trough period.
35%.
35%.
35%.
Mark just corrected me 35%.
So there we think we have significant upside and as we’ve discussed before 20% 25% is not uncommon for those trough leases.
And then about the third of the leases we have moderate upside.
We typically look to 5% to 10% there.
And then the rest third we think they’re flat there might even be some that that effectively have to get rolled down because they were made at the peak in 2007 or maybe 2008.
But overall we still think -- we’ve still got some runway in the existing portfolio with the leases that are coming due.
Thank you.
Next we will go to the line of Ki Bin Kim.
Thank you and good afternoon.
Could you comment about the changing strategies from ecommerce companies like Amazon I think a few years ago it was to be in more of the non-intercity MSAs where they had some favorable tax treatment and things like that? And maybe now with their desire to be more same day delivery are you seeing any kind of incremental shift from ecommerce-based companies that are moving away from like Arizona and more into population centers at all? Sure.
Ki Bin I can give you a little bit of color there.
I would say first and foremost we are not seeing any slowdown by any of our major ecommerce clients in the large fulfillment centers.
Those are still the backbone of their logistics and supply chain models.
What you are seeing and the trend has really picked up some momentum this year is the smaller infill facilities.
These are typically 50 000 to 75 000 feet and much closer into the major population areas.
And this is really what everybody in the industry is referring to the last mile.
So you can all remember in the not too distant past when the buzz word was two-day delivery and two day went to next day and next day went to same day and now a number of the ecommerce leaders are going to delivery models where for a small premium they can get you your box inside of two hours.
And that’s really what this last mile was all about.
It’s having limited inventory of high volume products close in to major metropolitan areas where they can affect delivery inside of a 90 to 120 minute window.
Okay.
And could you comment on the type of buyers that are out there for your suburban office sales that you’ve had in the past couple of quarters and maybe a similar question for I mean the higher quality industrial? Well I think even the big -- the obviously the big transaction we did this year was with Starwood so far so a private equity-type buyer.
I think a lot of the transactions we’ve done are with those same type of buyers in the suburban office.
So generally speaking a little more leveraged kind of buyers again taking advantage of today’s low interest rates makes the risk of owning suburban office a little bit elastic low interest rates.
And some of them are national.
I would say national buyers.
Some of them are smaller private buyers.
That more depends on the size of the transaction so that’s typical on the suburban office.
On the warehouse product that we sold this year including the one larger project we saw in the third quarter I would say a little bit more institutional type buyers.
Some private equity folks in there too for smaller product but more institutional.
Are there any other big portfolios out there that are being marketed for sale? For us you mean? Yeah.
No.
As we’ve said I think we’ve still got some suburban office assets mainly in Cincinnati where our wholly-owned stuff is now and just a couple here in Indianapolis right now that are all on the market.
But there’s nothing I guess that I would say is big and so in the remaining guidance we have for dispositions anyway.
Okay.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Next we’ll go the line of Eric Frankel.
Thank you.
I guess my questions are more related to land.
So one could you describe some of the land transactions you’ve completed this quarter and you expect to next quarter? And second perhaps you can touch upon future development starts? How much of it’s going to consist of land monetization? How much of it’s probably going to consist of new land purchases and either new markets or just new locations? Thank you.
Sure Eric.
It’s Jim and I’ll address that.
From a land perspective most of the land buyers we have today are combination of either generally private parties that are in the office business private developers are buying the office land.
We have converted a fair bit of our office land to alternative uses primarily apartment and multi-family.
So they should be the kind of the two biggest buyer groups.
And as we know the strength of the retail market and the multi-family market we’re getting very good pricing on those dispositions specifically down in Florida where we sold some of the suburban office land.
So from the buyer perspective that’s what we’re seeing.
In terms of our development we have a goal of continuing to monetize all that non-strategic land that we’ve identified.
So we think we can prune another probably upwards of $100 million of non-strategic land.
And that’s comprised of some of the residual office land that we have in some of our portfolios and some industrial land where we think we may have too much and be over invested in certain submarkets.
But most of the land that we’ll monetize will come from development as we put buildings into production on the existing land base.
So overall it’s a combination of the two.
But I would say the majority of it’s going to come from development and then some from additional land sales.
Okay.
I guess I can just go back into the queue but just a housekeeping question.
Mark on the conveyance of the properties in suburban DC is that going to marked as a disposition or no? I am not sure to be honest with you Eric.
We’ll obviously make sure the disclosure is very clear.
We did in the supplemental right now.
We’ve taken all the properties all the operations and all the debt off the books just like it was any other property we would’ve sold.
I can tell you it’s really not part of our disposition guidance if that’s what you’re getting at.
And I would just remind you that our share of the debt is $60 million.
So the way we look at it we’re taking $60 million worth of properties off $60 million of debt off and they kind of wash out.
But when they are actually finally turned over to the lender we’ll make sure the disclosure is very clear on that.
Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
I’ll jump back in the queue.
Next we’ll go to the line of Michael Carroll.
Thanks.
Given the strong capital position that you guys have is the company interested in completing any acquisitions and if not what’s holding you back? Is pricing just too frothy right now? Yeah.
I guess.
Mike I would say we would be interested in doing some acquisitions but really just what you said.
I mean generally speaking the pricing is holding us back.
It’s still pretty expensive out there.
And that’s why we continue to really focus on the disposition side right now.
And we’re again as I mentioned in the prepared remarks we’re very pleased with pricing we’re getting.
And I guess the only -- I am sorry -- Mark the only thing I would add to that is we’ve got a very strong development pipeline.
We’re really able to use the proceeds and the balance sheet that we have today to take advantage of those development opportunities.
Thank you.
Next we’ll go the line of Vance Edelson.
Great.
Thanks.
So given the strengths and demand could you differentiate between class A B and C industrial space from what you’re seeing? Are all the asset classes performing well now because occupancy is high and there’s no place to really go for the tenants or are there still some important differences in performance and the ability to raise rents at this stage in the cycle? Vance I would tell you and as I touched on with the macro numbers it’s pretty good across all markets and submarkets.
I can speak to A and B.
Clearly A and that’s what all the new product that’s being developed.
We’re at the absolute top of the price point with those products.
I think for the class B and we do still own a little bit of class B in some of the smaller assets.
As we’ve seen for instance the housing industry continue to come back probably not as strong as it did in the last cycle but they’ve made comebacks.
That small to mid-sized space is continuing to lease.
So we’re starting to see some good rent growth opportunities there.
And I happy to say I don’t think we own any class C properties.
You’ll have to ask one of my peers.
Yeah.
I was asking more about market wide because if the class C is filled up and that’s doing well then tenants can’t trade down.
And they’re really forced to go to class A or class B which actually increases demand for you somewhat market wide? I think that’s reasonable conclusion.
I think it’s pretty much hitting on all cylinders out there.
And that’s a very favorable environment for us and that’s why we’re continuing to be out there pushing rents.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow up on what you said about land.
As you keep an eye out for parcels to acquire are the higher and better uses such as multi-family or even data centers presenting competition so to speak.
And is that perhaps a factor that’s helping keep industrial supply off the market? Well we don’t -- when we’re buying land for industrial -- and our company has really changed its culture in terms of how we buy land for our industrial portfolio.
But we’re not competing for residential use as much as we were probably in the last cycle.
So we’re not seeing that much competition.
Thankfully we’re not really in the office development business anymore and we’re not out buying land.
That’s where I think you’re seeing more of the competition would be the multi-family guys competing for suburban office land and bidding the price up.
So it’s not much of an impact for us.
The greater challenge for us is really more on the entitlement process for industrial.
It’s not competing with residential or multi-family development.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to the line of Dave Rodgers.
Good afternoon guys.
Jim a question for you I guess on industrial.
You talked about a pretty good build-to-suit pipeline sounds like maybe spec comes down as a percentage of the total.
But I guess I just wanted to push a little bit on that in terms of are you seeing anything and kind of the lease-up assets that you’re working with that give you pause doing more spec development on the industrial side? And I guess the flip side of that is do you have enough demand for build-to-suits that the pipeline can get meaningfully larger in terms of what you’re building as you move into 2016? Let me take those in kind of reverse order.
Yes on the build-to-suits.
The development pipeline is still very strong on the build-to-suit side both again industrial and in healthcare.
So as we begin to formulate our thoughts about guidance for next year which of course we’re not giving yet we look at how we think the build-to-suit pipeline is going to hold up for next year.
And then we look at how the leasing progress is going on our spec development that’s already underway and how much spec risk we think we can take on and still maintain the performance of the portfolio.
If you look at where we are year-to-date and where we would expect to finish the year spec is only about 35% of our total portfolio which is significantly less than most of our peers.
And as we’ve said with a strong build-to-suit pipeline and we can all remember not too long ago what the effect of all that spec space was when the market starts to turn.
We’ve taken a little bit more conservative approach and we’re still comfortable with that.
Okay.
And maybe just one follow-up on the office side.
I don’t know if this is Mark or Jim but as you look at your occupancy in suburban office I think it’s about 89%.
Do you feel comfortable transacting at that level or will you drive occupancy higher before any sales? And I guess the bigger question there is should we expect any impact on AFFO next year in terms of what you would guide to as you come out later or early next year in terms of what AFFO could look like if you’re really leasing up office aggressively to sell it? Dave I’ll take that one.
I would say the occupancy at 89% is really not having any effect in our dispositions.
We’re selling actively out of that pipeline.
I don’t think you’ll see a lot of movement in that occupancy.
Again it just depends on the mix of dispositions.
Same thing I would say the occupancy probably would start picking up a little bit based on what we’ve got in the pipeline to sell now.
You know as we keep saying the sale of those suburban office assets really is just accretive to our AFFO going forward and we anticipate that same thing to occur on the office dispositions that will happen in 2016 also.
Dave I would just add from an AFFO perspective.
Looking at what we already have on the market right now you’d just continue to see the capital expenditures related to office go down as we continue to sell it.
So there may be some incremental leasing done but on a net-net basis that will continue to head south.
Great.
Thanks.
Next we’ll go to the line of John Guinee.
Great.
Thank you.
A couple quick ones.
I guess Jim all of your vacancy is really and your big vacancy is in Perris Logistics Center in Southern California something in Pennsylvania and Camp Creek in Atlanta.
I know where Camp Creek is in Atlanta.
But I have no idea where the other two assets are.
Where is Perris Logistics Center and where is 33 Logistics Park? John you’ve got to get out more.
I know I know.
You didn’t know we were international John? No.
The Perris Logistics Center is in the Inland Empire East John.
We bought a site there last year and immediately put about half of it into production with the 780 000 foot building that we have and that will be completed and come into service later this quarter.
And then the Pennsylvania building you were talking about is at the Eastern end of the Lehigh Valley.
Got you.
Okay.
And then Mark I guess the self-funding concept is a wonderful wonderful concept music to my ears.
But it’s a lot easier said than done to sell stabilized assets and 1031 exchange them into development sites.
Have you guys figured out a way to do that or do you have enough room in your taxable income to cover any gains out of the asset sales within the current dividend structure? Well as we weren’t able to give John guidance earlier this year on what our special dividend would be for this year it’s really difficult to give it for next year at this point in time.
But for some perspective even if you just say we’re at the top end of that number Denny threw out of $800 million of dispositions next year.
If you compare that to the $2 billion we did this year and we’re only paying a $0.20 special dividend this year.
I think that would give you some indication that we do have some maneuvering and some room that we should be able to work through that with what I would call a fairly immaterial issue to deal with.
Got you guys.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Have a good Halloween.
And we do have a couple in queue with follow-ups.
We’ll go to the line of Brendan Maiorana.
Thanks.
So you guys sold the Delaware Amazon building.
They’re still your second biggest tenant.
Do you foresee additional sales of the Amazon facilities throughout the remainder of the country or was it just you didn’t like the Delaware location as much as the others and that’s why you decided to market it? Well I guess what I’d say Brendan -- Amazon is our largest tenant or our second largest now I think after the sale but -- and we’ve done a lot of development for them.
But we’ve been pretty particular about where we develop.
They’ve done a lot of projects in I’d call sort of second third tier distribution markets great for them but not so great for us.
So we’ve pretty much shied away from those markets and the Amazon development that we have done we’ve been -- we like it because we know that even if at some point in time they leave those assets are in a great distribution markets and we can release those.
So the Delaware site with Amazon was also a very -- we got very comfortable with that site but again with exposure to Amazon as well as a little bit out of the way location compared to any other Amazon building that we own we thought we’d take advantage of the market.
Okay.
All right.
So it sounds like a little more one-off there.
And then just last one I had more of a housekeeping question for Mark the $368 million of mortgages looks like a pretty high interest rate on those.
Timing of when those mature during ‘16? Is that more early part of the year middle? Yeah.
Brendan there’s probably eight or nine different loans there but the biggest is about 300 -- close to a $350 million CMBS loan that we have.
It actually matures in December but it’s prepayable with no penalty in May.
So I think it’s pretty safe to assume that May would be a good take out date.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And next we’ll go to the line of Eric Frankel.
Thank you.
Just a couple quick follow-up questions.
One could you touch on the MD office market a little bit? It looks like occupancy has picked up there pretty meaningfully? Sure Eric.
I mean our Indianapolis office portfolio has always performed pretty well and even during the height of the recession the Indianapolis office our Indianapolis office portfolio never dipped below 90%.
So it’s been a strong performer for us.
And as Denny alluded to earlier with us about finished in Cincinnati you’ll start to see us selectively prune the Indianapolis office portfolio.
Okay.
I think one other thing there Eric.
Sure.
We put -- built 100% lease built-to-suit I think in the third quarter.
So I think that ticked up the occupancy a little bit.
Right.
Understood.
Okay.
Actually I have two more questions.
Second question is related to the Panama Canal.
That is now expected to open next year? Just want to get your thoughts on potential changes in trade flow East Coast ports? Can they actually accommodate these ships in your view? Is it going to affect demands in any way? Any color would be appreciated? Obviously your Savannah market seems to be holding up much better.
Sure Eric.
I can give you a couple of the general comments.
Clearly we think it’s going to beneficial for the Eastern Seaboard markets.
And I would also include the Gulf markets like Houston.
But we think the impact is going to be very slow to take place.
I don’t think you’ll see really meaningful movement across the Eastern Seaboard for potentially upwards of 10 years.
And while that sounds surprising if you just think about the whole logistic supply chain network companies do not make changes in that overnight.
And you’re talking about changes in rail lines trains and changing in trucking and distribution new facilities being built.
So I think you’ll continue to see it evolve over the next 10 years but it’s going to be a very positive thing for the Gulf and East Coast markets.
Great.
Okay.
Thank you.
The final question is related to the dispositions you didn’t necessarily highlight maybe some additional color on that would be great.
I am not sure what color are you looking for there? Just pricing how much you actually sold and where the assets are just that type of detail.
For the third quarter? Yes.
For the third quarter.
There’s a Cincinnati office portfolio the Amazon building in Delaware and then there’s a remainder which we don’t really know where it is.
I am sorry.
I didn’t understand the question.
Yeah it’s just miscellaneous things.
There was another office asset in Cincinnati that was outside that portfolio.
There was a small.
It was basically an industrial asset down in South Florida that was originally part of that Premier acquisition we did but wasn’t exactly an industrial asset and we sold it.
It was more of a flex retail kind of product.
We sold a couple things here at south here in Indianapolis.
Some miscellaneous small industrial single story office kind of products.
So it was just a bunch of different little things that we keep cleaning up the portfolio.
Okay.
Thank you.
And no one else is in queue with a question.
I’d like to thank everyone for joining the call today.
We look forward to reconvening here in our fourth quarter call tentatively scheduled for January 28 2016 and hope to see many of you at the Fall NAREIT Conference in about two and a half weeks as well.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
My apologies here for any inconvenience.
Once again welcome to the Duke Realty Fourth Quarter Year End Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
And later there will be an opportunity for questions and answers with instructions given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder your conference call is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference call over to your host Vice President of Investor Relations Ron Hubbard.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter and year end 2015 earnings call.
Joining me today are Jim Connor President and CEO and Mark Denien Chief Financial Officer.
Before we make our prepared remarks let me remind you that statements we make today are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.
For more information about those risk factors we would refer you to our December 31 2014 10-K that we have on file with the SEC.
Now for our prepared statement I’ll turn it over to Jim Connor.
Thank you Ron and good afternoon everybody.
Let me start off by saying that’s why we are not in the telecommunications business and we are in the real estate business.
But now we will get started.
Let me start off by saying that 2015 was another excellent year for Duke Realty.
We exceeded all of our beginning of the year goal and capped the year off with an excellent fourth quarter.
Let me recap our outstanding year.
We signed nearly 22 million square foot of leases which we believe is especially impressive given our all time high occupancy levels.
We improved in-service occupancy to an all time record high of 96.1% which is up from 95.4% at prior year end.
And we grew same property NOI at 4.7% and grew rents on renewal leases by 12%.
We commenced $684 million in new development starts and completed $1.8 billion in property dispositions substantially reducing our office exposure to 8% of our NOI.
We sold $132 million of non-strategic land and monetized another $93 million through our development activities.
In total we recycled the almost $1 billion of proceeds to fund our development needs for the year and payoff over $1 billion of debt to significantly delever the balance sheet.
All are growing AFFO per share about 5.2%.
Finally we raised our regular quarterly common dividend by 5.9% in light of the stronger balance sheet and low payout ratio.
We also paid a $0.20 per share special dividend in December.
I’ll now touch a bit on our leasing development activity from the fourth quarter.
We had a very good quarter in leasing with over 6.7 million square feet executed and also commenced $238 million of new development starts.
One of our notable leases includes the 783 000 square foot lease executed on our speculative development in the Inland Empire that is just completed in the fourth quarter.
This leads with the new customer which happens to be one of the world’s largest online only home furnishings retailers.
This is another example of our expertise and commitment to be in the nations leading e-commerce real estate solutions provider.
I would like note that in year-end all but four of our 22 industrial markets were 95% lease or higher on an in-service basis with an overall in-service occupancy level for our industrial portfolio of 96.5%.
Our medical office portfolio continues to produce strong results ending the year with in-service occupancy at 95.5% that’s 120 basis point improvement over year-end 2014 and tenant retention rate for the full-year is 86%.
As we stated before the low volatility and growing NOI nature of this portfolio should contribute to a better risk adjusted earning stream for the overall company.
Turning to development for the fourth quarter we started $238 million of development projects across seven deals.
We signed three 100% pre-leased industrial developments totaling 1.4 million square feet with the largest being a 1 million square foot facility for Amazon in Columbus Ohio.
The Amazon deals for term of 15 years and is a joint venture in our Rickenbacker Intermodal Park.
We also begin two speculative industrial developments during the quarter one for 403 000 square feet in Chicago and the other for 490 000 square feet in our Northern New Jersey.
Both of these submarkets have vacancy rates in the 5% to 6% range with a strong demand outlook for the year and we already have the solid list of prospects.
On the medical side we started two on-campus facilities totaling 158 000 square feet in aggregate which were combined to 75% pre-leased.
Including the solid fourth quarter activity our development pipeline at year-end is over $665 million with a weighted average stabilized initial cash yield of 6.9% and it’s expected to generate a GAAP yields of 7.5%.
This will produce margins consistent with our historical 18% to 20% range.
The aggregate pre-leasing level is 58% which is up a bit from previous quarters as expected.
I’ll now turn it over to Mark to discuss our financial results and our capital plans.
Thanks Jim.
Good afternoon everyone.
I am pleased to report the core FFO for the quarter was $0.29 per share compared to $0.30 per share in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Core FFO for the quarter when compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 was impacted by 2015 disposition activity.
Improved operational performance partially offset the impact of these dispositions.
We reported core FFO of $1.17 per share for the full-year 2015 compared to $1.18 per share for 2014.
Core FFO was impacted by lower income from service operations in 2015 as a result of a decrease focus on third-party construction projects and lower income from joint venture management.
The lost FFO from 2015 dispositions was substantially offset by the impact of deleveraging improved operational performance and incremental NOI from new development project deliveries.
I am very pleased to report AFFO of $1.01 per share for the full-year 2015 and $0.24 per share for the fourth quarter.
2015 AFFO represents a 5.2% growth rate over 2014 which is impressive given the level of dispositions and deleveraging for the year.
AFFO for the full-year 2015 translates into a payout ratio of 68%.
Looking forward we expect to be able to continue to grow AFFO per share and we’ll evaluate our dividend to maintain a conservative AFFO payout ratio in the 65% to 75% range.
I would like to take a moment to address a joint venture related land impairment charge that is not included in our core FFO.
During the fourth quarter we made a decision that we would actively seek to exit our retail joint venture in Linden New Jersey.
We have previously bought 57 acres of industrial land from this joint venture on which we have developed over 1.1 million square feet of modern bulk industrial product.
Retail development on remaining land in this joint venture has been held up for several years due to ongoing zoning and land used litigation.
The decision to exit this joint venture triggered a $19.5 million impairment charge this is included in our GAAP losses from joint ventures and also in our core FFO adjustment of $35 million of land impairment charges recognized during the quarter.
The remaining land impairment charges relate to some office parcels both on balance sheet and in joint ventures that were either sold in the fourth quarter or expected to be sold in early 2016.
Overall we had another solid quarter from an operational standpoint and now I will quickly recap capital activities for the quarter.
We utilize the disposition proceeds generated during 2015 to fund our development pipeline as well as to reduce leverage.
As discussed last quarter we also used a portion of 2015 disposition proceeds to pay a special dividend of $0.20 per share in December.
As previously announced in October we repaid a $150 million of 5.5% unsecured notes that had an original maturity date of March 2016.
We believe that this transaction was an excellent use of available cash and help to further improve our key leverage metrics.
For the full-year 2015 we repaid $831 million of unsecured notes and $231 million of secured debt.
Our expectation is for another strong year of net dispositions in 2016.
The proceeds of which will be used to fund our development pipeline and for 2016 debt maturities which will help us to deleverage further.
The level of plan dispositions in 2016 may result in another relatively minor special dividend for 2016.
Combining the additional capital we anticipate generating in 2016 and with the significant improvements we’ve already made to the balance sheet in 2015.
We are well-positioned to continue to improve our leverage metrics this year.
I am very pleased to announce some very good external news regarding this balance sheet progress.
Just last week both Moody’s and Standard &amp; Poor's raised our credit outlook to positive from stable and maintained our credit ratings at Baa2 and BBB respectively.
We are optimistic that further improvement in operations and deleveraging will propel us to a high BBB credit rating in the not-too-distant future.
Now I will turn the call back over to Jim.
Thanks Mark.
Yesterday we announced a range for 2016 core FFO per share of a $1.15 to $1.21 with a midpoint of a $1.18 and AFFO per share of $1.02 to $1.08 a share with a midpoint of $1.05.
In addition we are also introducing a range for NAREIT-defined FFO per share of a $1.12 to $1.24 with a midpoint per share of a $1.18.
First from a macro outlook perspective we expect the economic environment in 2016 to continue at about its current pace yet with a bit more volatility and possibly some downside if the recent turmoil continues with uncertainty about China and the impact of oil prices.
We are however a bit more optimistic on continued favorable industrial supply demand fundamentals that can support rent growth and new development starts.
For 2015 U.S.
industrial demand outpaced supply by over 90 million square feet.
Nationwide availabilities continue to fall and are at all-time lows for the modern industrial era.
Assuming the markets reached supply demand equilibrium in late 2016 or early 2017 we still see opportunity for rent growth albeit at slower levels than the past few years.
This is particularly evident given e-commerce tailwinds a positive outlook on consumer spending and our strong track record of executing strategic development projects across our nationwide platform.
As we anticipate having virtually exited the suburban office business by the end of 2016 we are providing our guidance on operational metrics such as occupancy and same-store property growth on industrial and medical office assets only.
We believe this is the best way to think about and model the Company on a go forward basis.
And this is how we plan to report actual results beginning in the first quarter.
A few specifics on some of the anticipated key performance metrics outlined in the 2016 range of estimates page provided in the back of our supplemental package and on our website are as follows.
Our average in-service occupancy range for the industrial and MOB on a combined basis for 2016 is expected to be 95.4% to 96.4%.
I would point out that we do expect the in-service occupancy in the first quarter to drop from current levels due mainly to spec development projects coming online along with the typical first quarter decline due to seasonal industrial expirations and contractions.
Same-property NOI for industrial and MOB on a combined basis is projected to grow at a range of 2.75% to 4.25% which is based on steady occupancy and continued rental rate growth and embedded lease escalations.
On the capital recycling front we expect proceeds from building dispositions in the range of $600 million to $900 million and proceeds from land dispositions of another $20 million to $60 million.
These dispositions include nearly all of our remaining office portfolio consistent with an exhibit we published in our November 2015 investor presentation.
The results should be that our office exposure will be in the very low single-digit percentage of our NOI by year end.
I will also reiterate that while these dispositions will be diluted to FFO we expect the capital recycling to generate positive AFFO growth.
Acquisitions are projected in the range of zero to $50 million.
We expect to continue to be very selective given today’s pricing environment.
Development starts are projected in the range of $400 million to $600 million and above 50% preleased.
We expect to fund our development pipeline with proceeds from our building and land dispositions.
Service operations should be in the range of $8 million to $12 million below our 2015 run rate as we continue to emphasize on balance sheet development over third-party work and a continued decline in fees from joint ventures as we continue to reduce our investment in these joint ventures.
We would also like to introduce financial credit metric expectations for the first time all measured on a year-end or fourth quarter run rate basis as follows.
Effective leverage measured on a book basis is projected to continue to decrease and finish the year in a range of 38% to 42% highlighted by the expected repayment of roughly $330 million of secured debt in the May timeframe sourced from disposition proceeds as noted above.
Fixed charge coverage is projected to increase to 3.3 to 3.6 times on a fourth quarter 2016 run rate basis.
And net debt-to-EBITDA is projected to range between 5.6 and 6 times on a fourth quarter 2016 run rate basis.
Now before we open up the line I would like to acknowledge our entire Duke Realty team for their efforts producing another great year of execution on our real estate operations and capital recycling.
Our collective actions are producing reliable steady cash flow growth for our shareholders.
I would also like to give special thanks to our outgoing CEO and now Executive Chairman Denny Oklak for his 29 years of service and 12 years of leadership as the CEO at Duke Realty.
Denny has not only left an indelible mark on what is a leading first class corporate culture here he mentored and personally touched many of us here at Duke Realty in ways that words can’t describe.
And what many of you listening in can appreciate Denny also left his mark as one of the pioneers in industry group leaders since the dawn of the modern REIT industry from the mid-1990s.
Going forward all of us here at Duke Realty look forward to carrying on the culture and strategic direction that the leadership under Denny has practiced a formula that we firmly believe will continue to drive shareholder outperformance.
And now we will open up the lines for some questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Juan Sanabria.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon guys.
Thanks for letting me have some time.
For the dispositions what are you guys thinking in terms of cap rates? If you could give us a little more color on what markets in the office market in particular you're looking to exit and any bias you're thinking about in terms of when the sales will actually be executed? Well Juan let me start off and then I’ll let Mark to add a little bit of color.
I would tell you as we’ve looked in our projected budget in detail.
I think you’ll see the cap rates average in the mid-5s.
Those will range from low in the 5s.
What I said? You said mid-5 that would be pretty good.
That would be pretty good mid-7s at the low end - sorry about that.
On the low end we will have asset the number of our high-end assets that will be sold in the mid-to-low-5s and some of our lesser quality assets with cap rate as high as in 9% or perhaps 10%.
So on average we are looking in the mid-7s.
Yes as far as timing Juan I think you will see – we’ve already closed on some that kind of spilled over from 2015 and 2016 but on balance I think it will happen fairly evenly during the year.
So that would suggest our $150 million to $200 million give or take for quarter on average.
And just is your bias to be towards the high end of the disposition range? And what markets will be left in the office pool? Well today as we detailed in most of our investor conferences in the fourth quarter the largest single ownership is in Indianapolis.
And we started disposing of Indianapolis office assets in the fourth quarter with a two-building package.
And we’re in the process of looking at and evaluating how is the market the balance of the portfolio throughout the year.
So Indianapolis is the largest single concentration and then from there its really selling mostly one-off asset some of which are joint venture assets some of which are wholly-owned that are around the country some of which we have been working to stabilize some of which we’ve been waiting for debt to expire.
So it’s a combination of reasons how they have ended up the bottom of list that’s kind of the overview.
Okay great.
And then on the demand side for bulk have you guys seen any softening across any of your key industries or tenants or geographies that is either on the developments or just regular course leasing that is an area of concern or something you are watching? Obviously Mark is a bit skittish on whether we get a recession or not.
Juan I don’t think any of our local operating teams have reported that or can point to any weakening sectors most of our concern I would tell you is geographically based where we are following the supply and demand balance.
We’ve reported last quarter that and I think many of us share a little bit concerned about Houston.
We have less of that concern and probably our peers in the office and the apartment side but yet we are watching that closely.
And I think several of us have alluded to the supply side in Dallas.
There is a lot of product on the market in Dallas.
They had a phenomenal year in terms of absorption and all-time high but there is a lot of product available down there.
Beyond that we see the markets in great balance and really good demand from our customer base.
Great and just one last quick one.
Have you guys seen any impact to MOB cap rates in the transaction market just given the cost of capital issues with some of the healthcare-focused REITs? No we have not been the sellers of MOB since 2013 and 2014 when we clean up the portfolio.
We are still seeing very strong and growing demand by the hospitals and healthcare systems and we’ve seen no impact on yields and projected cap rates from any of the interest effect.
Thanks guys.
And we will next go to the line of David Toti.
Your line is open.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Just quickly a couple of high-level questions.
First with regard to some of the conversations you have had with your MOB tenants is there any hesitation in front of the election any expectation for structural change in healthcare that could impact the MOB development the structural development as we've seen it the last couple of years? Anything from the conversations of note that might be shifting? No David I would tell you in fact it’s exactly the opposite.
Most of the major hospitals and healthcare systems particularly those that we do business with who are financially very strong are continuing their very strong capital investment programs across the system.
So our pipeline for MOB has probably never been healthier in terms of projects and opportunities with not only our existing client base but new client base and that is affording us opportunities for some geographic expansion which has always been a goal of ours in the MOB portfolio.
Okay that's helpful.
Then just one other question.
One of your peers mentioned on the call earlier this week that they expected to see some value deterioration in industrial assets potentially in secondary and tertiary markets so where the fundamentals weren't as strong as the landscape or as fundamentals in the industrial space plateaued.
Do you have the same expectation going into 2016 2017? It sounds like from your opening remarks that you expect sort of a plateau as well.
Would you also expect value shifts in a similar fashion? While I anticipate more of a plateau I don’t anticipate any yield or margin erosion in 2016.
I think the earliest that we would be concerned about that might be 2017 when some of the supply and demand side markets reach equilibrium.
We are not anticipating cap rates to move north dramatically.
The amount of capital that out there the introduction to foreign capital and sovereign wealth funds making big acquisitions in the industrial side.
We think its going to continue to keep cap rate pressure down where it is.
So I would tell you no I don’t see erosion.
I think they will stay flat for the year we will see how 2017 shapes up.
We will next go to the line of Jeremy Metz.
Your line is open.
Hi I was just wondering; in terms of the same-store guidance of 2.75% to 4.25% can you just break that down for us? How it looks between the industrial and then for the MOBs and maybe what's baked into guidance for rent spreads in 2016? Yes Jeremy its Mark.
I think industrial MOB will be probably pretty close together so I would think each of them will be at the midpoint in close to the mid-3s.
As far as rental rate guidance we are still projecting double-digit rental growth on all of our industrial deals that we’re doing; we’re about 14% in the fourth quarter.
We’ve mentioned this before we track all leases that we have coming at us for the next 12 to 18 months and out of all those leases looking out over those next 18 months about a third of them were still - are still left that were signed in that 2009 to 2011 time period.
So we really want to try to puts rents really hard on those up into the maybe the high-teens and then the other on balance will get us down in the – still we think the low double digit for rent growth on industrial.
Okay appreciate that.
Then a quick one on G&amp;A.
You're obviously calling for it to be relatively flat here so just wondering later in the year as you finish cycling out of the rest of the suburban office sales is this something we should see trend lower from here and into 2017? No I think you will see our G&amp;A load still fairly flat I mean I think we done a good job of reducing expenses over the years as we moved out of that product type.
But I am not sure that we can get anymore efficient than we already are.
Obviously there will be overhead changes whether it be additions or deductions but I think that will be driven all the way down to the property level.
So those costs aren’t really residing in G&amp;A anyway.
And we’ll move to the line of Ki Bin Kim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Could you comment on potential buyer mindsets on expectations for industrial real estate? Have they changed at all? Ki Bin I think it depends on the buyer profile and whether we are selling Class A long-term well leased industrial buildings or some of our high quality office versus some of our probably lesser quality or one-off assets I think the range is clearly across the board but I don’t think we’re expecting any significant changes in buyers underwriting expectations since the things that we’ve since in the latter half of 2015.
Okay.
And to follow-up on the previous question on G&amp;A I mean I am a little bit surprised that your G&amp;A is kind of flat year-on-year after you've sold probably close to $2 billion this year and last year of assets.
But I guess my question is if you also include the service income or net service income that's expected to come down a little bit.
I know in the past you said that's in a way your buffer that you can use that personnel to do more development or less.
But given that your start guidance has come down a little bit maybe you could comment on the longer-term trajectory of that part of the business service income and people? Well I think that will ebb and flow over time Ki Bin but our start guidance is down but I’d tell you that our volume of actual work that we are going to be performing will be even or up in 2016 over 2015.
You got to keep in mind we had $238 million of the starts here right at the end of the fourth quarter so all the work will be done on those starts during 2016.
So that’s part of why our starts number is down in 2016 over 2015.
So if you think about overhead absorption it’s more related to the volume of work being done not the amount of projects that were started.
So because of that I think it will ebb and flow but we’ll still have service operating income come down because of all that volume that we are doing in 2016 for our own account rather than for third parties.
Well I think the other thing Ki Bin I would add on just the G&amp;A particularly as it relates to your comment about the office sales.
We have always tried to be out in front of that and not left to be holding the bag on overhead once the portfolio of sales have been completed.
So we’ve typically been out in front of that with either outsourcing projects or rightsizing the staff and the teams as those projects have been market.
So we’re carrying excess overhead for a period of time after the portfolios revolved.
And we will move on to the line of Eric Frankel.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much a few questions.
I can always jump back in the queue but first Mark thanks for providing the leverage target for year end.
Would there be any reason that would change over the year? And then maybe into next year depending on your cost of capital and how the public markets are shaping up? No I don’t – I mean no reason they would change based on change in strategy or anything like that if that’s what you mean Eric.
I mean obviously they are going to be highly dependent on the timing and level of dispositions and things like that.
So we try to provide a range and I think you could expect us to be at the more pessimistic into the range dispositions coming at the pessimistic level.
And the leverage levels will be at the more optimistic level if dispositions are closer to the high level.
So that’s really the only thing that I could see changing but we’re very comfortable to ranges we put out there.
Would you be comfortable with exceeding your disposition target if you thought asset prices were being priced accordingly? Well I don’t know that’s necessarily related to leverage but I think that we would be very comfortable selling all the remaining office we have and then I think you will still see us take advantage like we did in the third and fourth quarter of 2015 buildings like the Amazon building in Delaware that we sold.
I think we are going to sell some industrial in that number.
So that’s how you get to the top end of that range is with a little bit more industrial sales.
Yes I think if you just do the math the bottom end of the range is about equal to us exiting the office business.
So if there was some move in cap rates we would be at the lower end of that range as we held on to protect some of those industrial assets.
But we are focused on selling those office assets.
Very helpful.
Just moving to supply I know you mentioned Dallas as being of some concern with overwhelming demand kind of placating that issue always this year.
Can you talk about Eastern Pennsylvania and the prospects for your development there and developments going forward? Yes.
You are talking about our 1.1 million square foot spec building.
We have a great deal of activity.
That building is just coming in service here in the first quarter.
And I’m not worried all about that project.
I think it’s a great project.
As you can imagine it's garnered a great deal of interest from a lot of e-commerce clients just given the nature of the development and the features that we put in there.
So that one doesn't concern me at all.
Terrific.
I will just jump back in the queue and let others comment.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
We have a question in the queue from the line Dave Rodgers.
Your line is open.
Yes good afternoon guys.
I wanted to ask maybe just about are you seeing any issues at all with tenant credit out there or any additional look for sublease space out in the industrial market at all I guess as you see some cracks in energy and other places? Anything to start worrying about on those fronts? No.
Not really Dave not at all.
Obviously our ears perk up when some of the data you've been reading lately come across the wire but we had record-low basically non-existent defaults or credit issues in 2015 and we are constantly in touch with the folks in the field and we read the same as you do but as of now we are not worried of any issues.
No if you go down to Texas our oil exposure is so absolutely minimal.
I think if you look at our portfolio Dallas and Houston combined is less than 3%.
Well you have 3% outside of the Dallas and Houston portfolios only 3% of their attendance renewal and gas industry.
So it’s incredibly small.
Yes so we don’t have a lot of concerns there Dave.
Okay great.
Your 2016 development starts – I didn't hear if you said this earlier because I got on late today but how does that breakout between MOB industrial and anything else you might be doing? And kind of where the yields on each of the categories that you might be starting? I think you’ll see the yields consistent with what we generated in 2015 the breakdown for us is typically somewhere between two-thirds and three-quarters industrial and quarter and a third on the MOB side.
The advantage we have is again most of the MOB projects really look and function like build-to-suit are very substantially pre-leased like the two that we signed in the fourth quarter.
We still got a lot of good build-to-suit activity so we evaluate spec as we bring projects and service and they get leased up.
So that kind of the uncertain portion of the equation is how much spec we're going to take out but we are still very active of the MOB in the build-to-suit side of the equation.
And I guess just following up on the disposition questions you had mentioned in your comments I think at some point Jim that you expected more volatility.
So kind of same backdrop but with more volatility.
In everything that you are reading does that make you want to hit that $900 million disposition target or what are the odds that you could push past that? And how are you feeling about that sitting here today? Well I think I can’t address that my first priority operationally is to exit the office business.
So that what we are most focused on right now.
Some of those projects are already actively being marketed as Mark said.
We’ve actually already closed two early in the first quarter then we can start at last year.
I think if these continue as we anticipate I think as we told all you guys we will be at the high end of that range.
If the market to change and there is an unexpected softening.
I think you’ll see us continue to be very focused on the office and working diligently to get those projects sold and we will take the wait and see attitude on some of the other high value industrial once.
Just like the Amazon building we sold if we didn’t get our pricing and very consent to keep that building it’s a great building.
And I guess last question Mark in terms of the additional proceeds that you get from the asset sales I heard your comment about potential smaller special dividend.
But any other options that you could put that money into or are you happy sitting on it where it is? No I think we’ll just payoff debt with that Dave we’ve got $350 million of debt coming due and I think that all these - what I call excess disposition proceeds will go to pay that down.
If we could do some 1031s that would be great but we are not going to over pay for property just to do 1031.
So that means there is a small special dividend so be it.
Great thanks.
We will next go to the line of John Guinee.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you.
Jim this is music to my ears and you know why.
Looks like your land has gone down from $500 million a year ago to $382 million today.
You're down to 4% of total enterprise value.
What's the range that your Board expects you to be in when you look at undeveloped – when you look at both strategic and non-strategic land? Well thanks John.
We’re particularly proud of what our guys did last year and clearly that helped the capital recycling.
As we sit here today all-in if you count wholly-owned for development and everything else we are just over $400 million.
We still have some non-strategic office land for sale that we’re going to try and move out.
We do need to replenish some land in some of our markets where we’ve got good development activity.
Our goal is to get down is to get below $400 million.
We would love to stay consistently in that $350 million range and we think as long as we could keep developing and monetizing land that way.
We are buying it in much smaller pieces going forward so we think we’ve made great strides and most of you can remember back at the start of the last recession when we had literally $970 million or $980 million of land.
So we’ve worked diligently to change the company culture here and a run rate of $350 million to $400 million it is a very comfortable run rate for us going forward.
Great.
And then Mark just to clarify a little bit you had basically said you wanted your dividend to be 60% to 75% of AFFO.
I think it was AFFO so correct me if I got that wrong.
But essentially at $1.05 midpoint for AFFO and a 65% to 75% ratio that would imply $0.68 to $0.78 and your current dividend is $0.72.
So it would imply that you are not expecting to raise your dividend in December of this year like you did last year.
Is that accurate? Well I guess John it is AFFO and I said - what I said is 65% to 75% of AFFO.
So obviously we are not going to do anything with our dividend we just raised in the fourth quarter 2015 that’s at a level we want to run out right now.
I am just doing the math because I’m not as quick at the numbers as you are but at the $1.05 midpoint that’s $0.74 which is a little bit higher than we are running at now.
If we hit those numbers and maybe even do a little bit better that would imply you could see a dividend increase later in this year but we need a little bit more time under our belt to see what happens.
Okay.
Does small special dividend or year-end 2016 imply along the same lines as 2015 or materially different? No not materially different John.
In 2015 we paid out $0.20 which was essentially $70 million I think it could be anywhere from zero to around that number.
Great.
All right keep up the good work.
Thanks.
Thanks John.
We will go now to the line of Brendan Maiorana.
Go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
So Jim on the office side you guys really did a great job monetizing your office over the past couple of years.
But for the remainder that you have are you seeing a price impact from what has happened in the financing markets and it's probably buyers' expectation that the macroeconomic conditions are a little less certain now than they were maybe say a year ago? I would tell you we are not.
And you got to remember most of the buyers that we are dealing with are not doing kind of the traditional bank financing.
We have seen a lot of private equity come into the office portfolio acquisition a la Starwood and Blackstone even some of the smaller deals that we’ve done.
So they are much less susceptible to interest fluctuations.
Most of them are looking to put capital to work.
The office fundamentals have been good and improving in the last few years.
So guys that want to invest in office we’ve had good buyer pools for all of our products even some of the Class B stuff that we’ve sold in one-off smaller transactions.
So I anticipate at least for the first half of the year being comparable to where we were in late 2015 in terms of our pricing expectations.
Okay great.
And then just last one for Mark.
You guys have done again this year really nice job getting that spread between FFO and AFFO narrowed again.
But you've got a pretty new portfolio; there's been a lot of development deliveries over the past several years so those assets don't require a lot of ongoing leasing.
Is it – do you feel like the spread is sort of abnormally low now abnormally narrow and maybe it's going to widen out as we get a little bit more lease turnover in a few years time? Or do you think that kind of where you are you can sustain that level over the longer term? You know Brendan we really think we can sustain it.
We think it’s I wouldn’t say abnormally low but I think you got to keep in mind as long as we can do a good job of always pruning the bottom whatever x percent of the portfolio out and keeping the youngest portfolio in the industry that we think we can keep our CapEx down to a lower run rate than the next guy.
So we’re really committed to having these bigger nicer newer boxes and that just translates into a lot less CapEx on a per square foot and per investor dollar basis.
So we’re pretty confident we can keep this pace going.
Okay great.
Glad to see it.
Thanks guys.
And we will now go to the line of Michael Carroll.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys this is actually George on for Mike.
You mentioned the lease you signed with the large e-commerce company.
Are there any markets in particular that will benefit from a pickup and leasing from e-commerce firms? George that's an interesting question.
And I think in general we’ve seen e-commerce touch virtually all of our markets and one of the phenomenon we’ve started to see in late 2014 and 2015 is while we’ve consistently seen these let’s call it 500 to a 1 million square foot.
We are now starting to see in secondary and tertiary and infill markets some of the smaller e-commerce lease is for just in time delivery.
So I’d tell you we are seeing e-commerce all over the place.
I think you’ll continue to see them grow in the major tier-1 markets because e-commerce is – the delivery expectations are not going to get any slower and it’s about putting product in consumers hands as quickly as possible and that’s your tier-1 industrial markets and your major population centers.
All right.
And then are there any other opportunities to prepaid debt in 2016 outside of the $250 million coming due? The only thing George would be the 2017 unsecured maturities we have are coming at us early in 2017.
So there maybe a chance to take that out a little bit early but other than that there's really not.
All right.
Thanks guys.
We will go now to the line of Manny Korchman.
Your line is open.
Hey it's Michael Bilerman.
Jim two questions.
First just on supply.
You talked about in your opening comments all but four of your 22 industrial markets are north of 95% occupied.
And I'm just kind of curious as you continue to develop – granted half of that is preleased.
What are you seeing from a supply perspective given these record sort of occupancy levels and whether you see some of your peers or even a return of other merchant developers come into the marketplace adding to supply? Well I think our peers are just like us.
I think they have been selectively developing spec I think you’ve seen the merchant builders be fairly active across all of the markets.
As we mentioned Dallas in particular has a very strong and deep profile of developers down there.
I think the expectation is you will continue to see active development all through the year most of the sources that we use the brokerage or the consulting companies or the research companies are expecting that we’ll hit some sort of the equilibrium late this year or early next year.
So that would anticipate we will have probably a couple 100 million square feet of absorption and approaching that in the supply side.
I think we’ll be all right for this year I think the question is as we finish this year and we start to go into next year.
What do those numbers really look like? And will people have the self-control to pullback a little bit at the end of this year and next year when we get to that equilibrium.
Do you have a sense at all in terms of your preleased projects how much of that is growth square footage for the tenant versus just musical chairs? Well for us we would net that out if we were taking somebody out of an existing lease and putting them in a new building.
So for us it’s very little.
I can’t speak to the overall the effect of the overall input but I think net-net when you look at 91 million square feet of net absorption across the country the net debt is very very positive.
Right.
And then secondarily you talked about your first priority being to exit office I guess from a strategic standpoint of just fully cleansing yourself of that product which has been going on for a number of years and you've executed extraordinarily well.
Post doing that the MOB portfolio will be about just over 20% of the Company and it's been a great source for you from a reinvestment of all the sales proceeds into developing new MOBs.
I guess now once you reach the end of this year and sort of use it as I guess house to invest some of that excess capital in addition to deleveraging does medical office become a strategic pivot point for you in terms of what to do with that portfolio? Or does it - or do you start thinking about that earlier as you think about how the medical office building healthcare companies have traded which has been extraordinarily well being able to monetize that for shareholders? Well Mike I can’t help but think about it everyday because I get asked about it everyday so I’ll tell you there is always been a lot of interest in our medical portfolio we believe the highest quality portfolio across the board we’ve got a great team even through the succession when Jim Bremner retired and our new team that is running the business we’re creating a lot of value.
So we evaluate that strategically and as I’ve said before right now our focus is to exit the office building and we will always be thinking 12 to 18 months about the direction of the company and what we are going to do with all of our product both industrial and medical and all of the markets that we operate in.
So today it’s full speed a head we are cleaning up the office portfolio simplifying the business and we’ll see what opportunities are created in the future.
If you have a thought do you think a spin-off of a $2 billion medical office company versus a sale of that portfolio would you lean one way or the other? Well at this point I wouldn’t lean one way or the other because I’m not really seriously looking at it.
I think when we get to that point we will do what any prudent management team will and explore all of our options and what will create the greatest value for our shareholders.
Great thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll go now to line of Eric Frankel.
Go ahead please.
Thank you.
I will try to make them two good ones.
First with your Chamber Street joint venture; obviously Chamber Street merged with Gramercy Property Trust and so they seem to be undergoing a new strategy.
So I was wondering if there's any finality to that joint venture in the near future.
Eric that's a good question.
We have been winding down that joint venture and a lot of the activity in the Chamber Street joint venture was slowed by their acquisition by Gramercy.
In terms of the overall number of assets I think we are down to under 10.
I think probably eight if I am counting correctly.
And I don’t think any of those for us are long term holds.
So I think I thought has been to let our friends at Gramercy get their arms around the Chamber Street and then we will continue to look to exit most of those assets.
Okay thank you.
The final question I found your phrase for how you think about the e-commerce business as an e-commerce real estate solution provider.
Without giving away any trade secrets I was hoping you could expand on that concept a little bit further and how you'd like to grow that segment of your development business.
Well I think Eric like any level of expertise in this industry or anything else it's really based on people and for us it’s construction and development people who have a great deal of experience dealing with all of the e-commerce providers whether it’s the Amazons of the world or the Walmart.coms all the way down to the third-party logistics providers who have been a growing source of e-commerce solutions.
Looking at and dealing with omnichannel distribution we’ve just done a great deal of it across the country.
We’ve built a lot of it.
We understand what our e-commerce providers needs and where those differ from traditional industrial buildings and we are very comfortable with the direction and markets going and making investments in that product and that’s quite candidly what our clients want to hear.
40-foot buildings and heavy parking and losses truck parking.
Those are the kind of assets that appeal to our e-commerce clients and we are very comfortable making those investment.
So that’s we will continue to do.
That’s it for me.
Thank you.
End of Q&amp;A I would like to thank you everyone for joining the call today.
And we look forward to seeing many of you during the year at industry conference as well as getting you out to see our regional markets.
Thanks again.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay beginning today January 28 at 5:30 PM Eastern Standard Time until February 11 2016 at 11:59 PM.
You access the AT&amp;T executive playback service during that time by dialing area code 320-365-3844 and entering the access code of 383157.
Those numbers again are 320-365-3844 with the access code 383157.
And that will conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T’s executive teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.