Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the first quarter earnings release conference call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would now like to introduce our host CEO Mr.
Tom McDonnell.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Steve Hooley our President and Ken Hager our CFO.
Before we start we need to comment that if in the course of our conference call today we make forward-looking statements respecting DST and its businesses such statements would be based on our views as of today and actual results could differ.
There could be a number of factors affecting future results including those set forth in the latest periodic report we file with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that we make.
Since all participants on the call have had access to our detailed earnings release we're going to focus our comments on some items that we think to be particularly significant or relevant.
For the quarter GAAP reported diluted earnings per share were $1.14.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis the diluted earnings per share were $1.08 per share and that was on a non-GAAP basis.
That was a decrease of $0.03 or 2.7% from the first quarter of 2010.
All the comments that we are going to be making on the call really are on a non-GAAP basis.
We'll get to operating results in a minute but there are several items I'd like to point out on the first quarter.
We paid a $0.35 cash dividend.
That was payable on April 8 of this year.
That was an increase of $0.05 or a little under 17% over the prior dividend.
Also during the quarter State Street increased their quarter dividend to $0.18 a share.
That will increase the dividend income that we recorded from State Street by $7 million on an annualized basis and the first quarter dividend because of the record date that is actually reflected -- our first quarter reflects that increased dividend level.
We repurchased 327 000 shares of our stock during the quarter.
That was an average price of $50.15.
As we indicated before our focus on free cash flow is to reduce debt and manage the balance sheet but we continue to repurchase shares to offset shares that would be issued from exercise of options and other activities in the equity plans.
We reduced our debt by $66.9 million down to a level of $1.1 billion at the end of the quarter.
We also announced the formation of DST Insurance Solutions to reenter the U.S.
insurance processing market.
DSTIS will offer a remote processing operation managed by DST and a full-service or often referred to in the industry a BPO option in partnership with Boston Financial Data Services.
In order to enter this market place we'll be using software from Percana that is owned by our IFDS Ireland joint venture.
That's a joint venture with State Street.
DST will be responsible for adapting the Percana software to the U.S.
market; that's what we will be doing most of this year.
Based on the Percana software which is operated in Ireland as licensed and provided to a range of insurance companies we believe that the DST Insurance Solutions can provide a contemporary and flexible solution to the insurance marketplace.
The insurance industry is faced with the need to rapidly introduce products and it also a lot of our client base is looking at their investors as they transition from an accumulation phase of investment to a payout phase which requires insurance type processing annuities and so forth.
Because this year we're going to be really investing in Americanization of this particular platform we expect we will have about $8 million to $9 million of product development costs and startup costs in this year and unlikely that any revenues will be recognized or contracted for until 2012.
On an operating basis consolidated operating revenues for the quarter were $426 million.
That was an increase of $16.6 million or 4.1% from 2010.
That reflects the inclusion of the dsicmm revenues which is now operating as an IOS.
Consolidated operating income however decreased by $7.4 million or 9.2% from the first quarter of last year.
We had some lower U.S.
Output Solutions revenues and we also had some residual one-time and startup costs at IOS that pretty much contributed to that $7.4 million decline.
And as part of that area or equity in the earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased by $100 000.
In the Financial Services area operating revenues decreased by $2.6 million or 0.9% over the first quarter of 2010.
Included in that decline were lower AWD and other software license revenues.
So the resulting income from operations decreased by $1.7 million or 2.7%.
Most of that however was from higher deferred compensation costs which are these mark-to-market numbers and they're offset in other income.
During the quarter the total number of registered accounts we service declined by $2 million.
It was made up conversions of the subaccounting platforms that totaled $3 million of which $500 000 were migrated to our subaccounting platform.
But we also experienced organic growth of 1 million registered accounts so that results in the net number that I just referred to.
On the subaccounting side the net effect of activities there ended up with an increase of 1.1 million subaccounts for the quarter.
That 1.1 million increase consisted of new client conversions of 500 000 accounts organic growth of 700 000 accounts the 500 000 conversion from our registered book that I mentioned earlier.
But they were then reduced -- the overall was reduced by a client conversion to a non-DST platform of 600 000 accounts.
Right now our projections of registered accounts converting to subaccounts are based on information that we continue to receive from our clients and of course are subject to change.
But based on the information that we have currently we expect the subaccounting trend to continue.
But as we indicated before we see it pretty much at the level of 2012.
It could occur in a bandwidth then of around that let's say plus or minus 10% or 15%.
During the quarter we were notified by three clients of their intention to leave DST.
Two of the clients are affiliates and in fact are subsidiaries of Bank of New York Mellon.
The Bank of New York Mellon of course is a competitor of ours.
Once the merger of the Bank of New York and Mellon occurred we anticipated that some results like this might come about.
That generally will result in a loss of about 1.6 million registered accounts and 8.4 million subaccounts some time between the first part of the third quarter of this year and third quarter 2012 depending on contractual provisions and so forth.
We experienced in the defined contribution area we had an increase of 200 000 participants for the quarter and that brings the total participants serviced to 4.7 million.
On the joint venture area our equity in earnings of the BFDS and IFDS increased by $700 000 to $9 million compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Those increased earnings were primarily driven by account growth at IFDS.
In the area of BFDS where there is balance is involved the average earning rates were 16 basis points for the first quarter of 2011.
That compares to 13 basis points for the first quarter of 2012.
An average balances actually were $1.3 billion as compared to $980 million for the same period last year.
However on the balance area with those very de minimis rates we still actually are incurring frictional costs for servicing the accounts that exceeds the earnings on the balance revenue.
At Output Solutions the operating revenues decreased -- or increased by $18.9 million over 2010 while U.S.
revenues and volumes declined continuing to reflect the deconversion of the large telecom client last year that involved the termination fee and so forth.
Those numbers are still being reflected in the comparisons.
But the International revenues increased from the IOS acquisition in July of last year.
Output Solutions reported income from operations for the first quarter of this year of $9.6 million.
That was a decrease of $5.3 million or 35.6% compared to the first quarter of 2010.
And that as I indicated the decline was the result of these lower U.S.
revenues and there was still a component of some integration and one-time charges bringing the IOS business together.
However Output Solutions did generate EBITDA of $20.2 million.
That's somewhat of a decrease from 2010.
It was $4.5 million less or on a percentage basis 18.2%.
Our tax rate for the quarter was 36%; that compared to 38.2% in the first quarter of '10.
Right now we're currently estimating our tax rate for the full year of 2011 will be approximately 34.5%.
But this rate will most likely vary on a quarterly basis depending on the timing and sources of the 2011 revenue.
Basically the estimated tax rate will decline due to our projection of changes and the mix of earnings and the varying tax rates either on dividend exclusions of international rates and so forth.
So at this point we would like to turn the call -- open up the call for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Greg Smith with Duncan-Williams.
You guys quantified sort of the impact from the new insurance operations on expenses for this year.
But can you give us any kind of quantification of the revenue opportunity and do you have any firm client commitments at this point? Answering that reverse firm client commitments no.
We have had a look because of our -- we've had the experience with Percana for a couple of years now in Ireland.
We're introducing it through our joint venture into the U.K.
and when we looked at the North American market we determined the best model to do that would be the same way we do with mutual funds here with DST hosting operating and providing remote access to the system and providing either full service or BPO through Boston Financial.
Before I break the market into broad categories one a lot of our clients are looking to insurance-type products annuities and so forth to continue their relationship with their investors once they get out of it.
In effect the lifetime accumulation phase and go to a retirement phase or a distribution phase so we see an opportunity there.
But also given the shifts in the insurance industry worldwide with capital issues at the companies re-regulation of products there is a demand we believe based on new product introduction to have systems that allowed the insurance companies to enter the marketplace rapidly.
We've looked at some other opportunities in the last couple of years.
In fact we even looked at one company that was acquired by Oracle to enter this phase.
And we think that the insurance industry today as opposed to a number of years ago is both open to and will need to turn to outsourcing to accommodate the timing rapid introduction in some of the complexity of these products.
And having this system reviewed before acquisition of it initially we find that it's contemporary in the respects that it does accommodate that.
So I think you'd have to say you look at the insurance industry as very large with a number of policies but this is not a target market for us necessarily for large existing books of whole life product but rather the products that are variable variable annuity and so forth.
Currently that's in place that's probably 20 million 30 million policies.
We expect that to grow substantially over time that's the overall market.
The revenue characteristics in this are substantially better and more attractive than what we see in the mutual fund arena mostly because insurance companies have smaller books and more complex products.
But we do think that gives us both significant revenue opportunity on the remote side and on the in effect BPO or processing side.
Okay.
Good.
That was helpful.
And then obviously you're losing a significant number of accounts here big flow you got the subaccounts and some registered accounts.
Any color on the kind of new account pipeline? Anything that could come in to potentially offset some of that? So I think you got to maybe look at a little bit in a matrix sense.
A lot of the accounts when we look at having lost accounts but still maintaining the level of revenue and of earnings accounts that go to subaccounts have tended to be what's in the industry for those level three accounts.
In a pricing algorithm those are some of the lowest revenue accounts that we have.
So if you lose there but you see some organic growth in the registered side it has a positive impact on a relative basis.
As far as the marketplace out there that is relatively small.
So I don't really see any significant major new client wins in the short term.
There's still a number of in-house operations aside from the major 2 or 3 that we think maybe over the next couple of years needing to take a look at their costs.
Because while we're impacted obviously by subaccounting an in-house operation is also impacted by it.
And at some point they're -- have an inability to manage a level of fixed cost.
So we think there's some possibility there but nothing immediate.
So I think you'd have to look to -- if there is optimism at all it would be in growth of registered accounts with people returning to investing in mutual funds.
But I wouldn't see much on the conversion side.
I think once we get these 2 blocks that they're going to New York Mellon out of the way I mean it normalizes what's left because there's no more direct ownership so to speak of relationships.
And so as you can see we actually we're -- we had positive momentum in the subaccounting side ourselves.
So I think we'd like to think we can continue to penetrate the subaccounting market x that situation I just referred to.
But as far as account growth it's going to be pretty much dependent on organic growth from the current client base.
Hopefully it won't fully offset but maybe mitigating some of the movement to subaccounting.
Okay.
And then last question just -- as I look at the Financial Services sort of expenses just taking -- looking at the margins and what does that imply for the overall operating expenses in the Financial Services segment.
Year-over-year they were only down very modestly.
Now you've done some cost saving efforts.
So I would have expected sort of a bigger decrease in the expenses and maybe foreign currencies boosting that.
And I know there were some -- there's the incremental development expenses you called out related to the insurance product.
But I guess taking all that into account why didn't we see sort of better margins on a year-over-year basis in the Financial Services segment? Well obviously several of the things that you mentioned in there I don't have an exact reconciliation of that.
But I think that's a legitimate question let us -- we're not going to be able to answer right here.
Let us take a look and see if we can respond to you and others on that.
Okay.
Thanks Tom.
Next we go to the line of Jim Kissane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yes thanks.
Tom can you provide a little more color around the loss of the full-service client with the 900 000 accounts maybe some of the factors behind the loss.
Was it pricing? Was it service issues? Thanks.
It wasn't service issues Jim.
They were a long-term client.
I was directly involved in that which may have been the issue.
What it was was a client who was sort of what we would refer to as a hybrid client.
We processed a certain amount of their stuff full service.
They processed it and had a fair-sized staff at their location.
They were approached by a competitor with a bid.
But in the process they decided to get completely out so to speak of the Processing business.
And they had required as part of a proposal that you domicile location in the Delaware Valley.
We did not have anything in that particular geographic area.
So when you looked at what the pricing available was and the cost of setting up a relatively small operation on a satellite or stand-alone basis it became uneconomic for us.
The competitor it was actually Bank of New York actually had facilities in that area already.
So I think that -- I mean there's certainly pricing but the actual pricing was not differentiated between the two.
It was the factor of the willingness and the ability to set up an operation in that particular geography that I believe was a difference.
So you're pretty confident it's just a one-off type situation? Yes.
You can say everything is one-off.
But this client was a little unique both in their location their mix of business and particularly that they -- as I say we had a long-term relationship with them there were certainly no service or other issues.
But once they've reached the conclusion that they wanted to do in effect move their clerical staff from under their cost structure to a third-party provider and the other requirement as part of the RFP really included a fairly long-term commitment to that Delaware Valley area we just couldn't make it work.
Got you.
And just given the trends in accounts continued losses of registered as well as the subaccounts now and also the volume trends in output I know you've taken a fair amount of costs out with the 7% cost action last year.
But do you think you need to address costs again to rationalize the structure given the pressure on revenues.
Well we're continually looking at costs and I think -- we would like to think that we're able to keep some of the profitability where it is by addressing the cost side.
Key though particularly at output is to get some United States-based revenue.
We had the telcom client that left and then the -- there's been a lot of reduction in volume in the remaining telcom clients as they reduce the size of their bills and so forth.
So we've absorbed quite a bit of reduction in revenue there.
And that's I mean that's the bad side.
The good side is that there's an awful lot of capacity that would be highly leveraged if we can increase some revenues.
But across the board we look at costs every day and try to keep them consistent with what we think the direction of the business is.
So I think the simple answer is to that is yes we'll continue to take whatever cost actions we believe are legitimate relative to where the revenue base and the nature of the business are going.
But we will not take cost actions that we believe are -- that would impact what we like to think is some long-term plans in the output side insurance side and in the mutual fund side.
Okay.
Can I ask your update on the long-term target for output margins? Well we still -- we anticipate we can get them back into the double-digits.
I think it won't take much -- the non-U.S.
margins are pretty good.
I think that our challenges have been the volume declines in the U.S.
So I mean I'd like to think as  the next few quarters unfold that we can get a little incremental revenue in there that you'll start to see a movement back that direction.
Thanks Tom.
Next we'll go to the line of Dave Koning with Baird.
First of all just a couple of other things on output.
I know in the last couple of quarterly releases you talked about some new revenues coming out with wins.
How close are we now just given some of the deconversions that happened.
I guess the anniversaries of those along with the new wins coming on.
I mean are we going to be back in revenue growth mode on an organic basis by the second half of 2011? I think we could well be if we don't see continual reduction particularly in the telcom volumes from existing clients.
Over the last 10 months and there is a couple of mergers out there that may impact it we don't know exactly how yet.
But I think if the telcom volumes have normalized with some of the business coming on I think third quarter we should start to see some growth in the U.S.
Okay.
Good.
And then with what looks like in the press release are incremental cost cuts relative to -- I know you did the plan about a year ago but the output cost those are incremental am I right about that? Yes.
This is -- I mean we have looked given the -- as I mentioned the decline in some of the telcom revenue -- or telcom volumes we've just readjusted the staff size there.
So yes that's an incremental amount.
But once we get past the recognition of the severance in this quarter it should be positive going forward.
Okay.
And then there's the last thing on output.
I think last quarter you said the DSI acquisition was still losing money.
But now from the comments that you made now is that international margins are actually better than the U.S.
So if DSI is the biggest portion of international I mean does that mean it's now solidly making money? It is turning the corner we believe.
Okay good good.
And then on insurance Greg asked the question just about when revenue starts coming on.
By 2012 do you expect that to be a profitable business whereas this year it looks like $8 million to $9 million in net cost? Well generally we would -- there is always a sense that you build a system and costs go down.
Generally when you're building or adapting a system you have development costs.
And then as you get into the marketplace it's unusual to see those costs go down because usually you use the same amount of resource and effort to support customization by client installations and so forth.
So I don't expect the cost line to go down.
As far as revenues it's really a function of -- we believe that we could be showing the system and making proposals to clients in the second half of this year.
Because like in most of these types of businesses there's somewhat of an extended sales cycle.
So I think it's really a question rather we can get some early on sales success and commitments.
Even if that were the case usually you work months on that and it takes a few months for conversion.
So my sense is we probably in any meaningful way will not see revenues till late second or early third quarter of next year.
But hopefully we can announce some actual contractual commitments which would sort of be indicative of whether or not we are successful in that market place.
Okay good.
And then just two quick ones.
The tax rate obviously started the year at 36% but the full year is 34.5%.
Does that imply that next year the rate could even be a little below 34% 34.5% just simply because the last three quarters of this year will probably be closer to 34%? I don't think so.
I think there's a little bit of a decrement in the tax rate by the inclusion of the State Street dividend.
Because you have dividend exclusion there so when you get to dividends on a corporate basis dividends receive the effective rates less than 10%.
So that's a little bit of the downward bias.
To the extent that we've had even on a flow-through basis through joint ventures tax rates in Canada have been going down and will be going down.
Tax rates in the U.K.
are projected on a corporate basis to reduce.
So it's that mix.
And I think given that the State Street dividend has come in this year and is a step up that's probably a little bit of a short-term factor.
Like we said it will fluctuate based on where the geographies are but I think we would think the normalized rate 35.5% 36% is more likely.
Okay.
And then as my last question.
In the past sometimes you've given an update on account wins or accounts through kind of the middle of April because of the -- I think it has something to do with the tax season and how some people put money into IRAs and things like that right at the end of kind of that threshold timeframe.
Is there any update you want to give us on the early part of April? Actually we have done that in the past.
We didn't do that here.
I don't have that number at hand.
It was an okay tax season but nothing dramatic.
Great.
Well thanks for answering all my questions.
It was a lion's list.
[ph] Next we go to the line of David Togut with Evercore Partners.
Tom with the loss of more than half of your subaccounts announced last night how do you convince clients that you have a credible strategy in this business? Well I mean I think one we have a credible system.
We have a system that we believe actually has more positive characteristics given that it's a derivative of the mutual fund system and therefore has more accurate accounting and so forth.
And I think DST has we would like to think David a reputation for delivering what it says it will.
And I think the way these accounts were lost because they were moving to a competitor who actually owns the business for all practical purposes.
We don't think that is much of a difficult sale relative to the rest of the client base.
And then there was $9.4 million in other income in the quarter which was approximately 12% of pretax income.
Can you break out the components of other income and give us your view of what components are sustainable versus one-time in nature? Ken is taking a quick look right now.
Is there something else while he looks? Sure.
What are the cost savings from the ongoing workforce reductions you've been announcing this year? I believe there was a 90 headcount reduction at output announced in the last month or so? Well we think of -- going back to the other question of managing cost of volumes and output and a couple of the other smaller segments we anticipate of those reductions will have a run rate of $12 million to $14 million which obviously I say those savings or those reductions in cost I guess I should say second quarter on because you had the recognition of the severance costs and then you did have the actions take place in the first quarter so there were regular elements of the compensation for say 2/3 of the first quarter.
Of the $9 million a little over $5 million of it is dividend income.
Of course you have the State Street dividend of $1.7 million.
And Computershare does a semiannual dividend and that was about $2.5 million.
So you will see that every other quarter assuming they continue to do that.
The other largest piece of that was the mark-to-market gain on our trading securities that offset the per comp expense and that was about $3.5 million in the quarter and that will vary depending on market actions David.
So those two make up the bulk of other income.
David in the other income and we try to address this in the press releases but because every call we talk about the mark-to-market.
And I mean this is deferred compensation plans where we have required that people put certain of the deferred amounts or put certain bonus and other amounts into a differed plan and then they can elect an investment underneath it.
So whether the market goes up or down there is a positive or negative impact in sort of the operating aspect of the P&amp;L because it's a "compensation expense." But there's always 100% offset down in other income.
So it's the way GAAP requires it to be accounted for.
But that one you're always going to have in that other income line every quarter.
And it can go either way but the net of it is always a wash.
Thanks.
And then depreciation and amortization was down $5 million sequentially.
What were some of the underlying reasons? And what do you see as depreciation and amortization for 2011 as a whole? David depreciation was down and amortization was down for a couple of reasons.
One because we use accelerated methods in the first quarter there is always a reset of the depreciation rates for existing assets.
And our depreciation has -- as our CapEx has been down the last couple of years we have a reducing amount of depreciation base.
And then we also had I think one of our acquisitions had the intangible amortization that worked its way off in the first quarter of this year.
What would be your expectation for the year as a whole Ken? I would think that depreciation would be fairly consistent with what we've seen in the first quarter for the full year.
Okay.
And just finally on my earlier question on cost savings from the workforce reduction will this be a rolling process that will just continue over time or are we largely done with this by the end of the first half of this year? Well I think it's going to be a continual reaction to business conditions David.
I mean right now we would say we think we've taken all the steps necessary to position ourself for the rest of this year.
But that's -- nothing is ever cast in stone.
And in responding to an earlier question we like most organizations I mean there's two sides to it.
The revenue in some case is a little bit more difficult in our case right now.
We know we have to take some actions moving there.
That's one of the reasons we're moving in the insurance side but we review costs continually.
But if you ask if it was my expectation that this pretty much sets the tone for the year about where it will be I think that's yes.
But if there is other changes that require additional cost or let me say the account that will allow us to accommodate those changes with a rational cost adjustment we'll do it.
Thank you very much.
Next we'll go to the line of Peter Heckmann with Avondale Partners.
LLC</strong> Can you give a little bit of bigger picture on the subaccounting issue? Talk about of the mutual fund industry how many of accounts do you currently believe are on subaccounting platforms? And eventually what percentage of all mutual funds get to be on a subaccounting platform? And the way I look at it is roughly 15% of funds are still sold direct with the fund sponsor.
So by definition they can't move to a subaccounting platform.
And then perhaps another 10% to 15% are from small fund companies where it might be uneconomical for the broker/dealer to support them on a subaccounting platform.
And then lastly you've got these tax-advantaged accounts that may be more resistant to subaccounting.
So can you give a better feel of where we are now and where do you logically think we can be? I mean I think one thing you owe shareholders is an explanation of why this business isn't going to zero over the next 10 years? And my argument here is that it appears that between around 70% of accounts may eventually move to a subaccounting platform but they will not -- it's not possible or not likely that all of them will move to subaccounting.
Can you give us some color on that? Well we haven't probably done an analysis at quite the level that you would like.
There has been for a long long time accounts held at brokerage accounts even before subaccounting became a term.
So if there is 300-plus million accounts I think either in brokerage or subaccounting there's probably 40% of them or so now but I don't want to quote that as an exact number because that wouldn't necessarily  be accurate.
I think your observations are some of the things that are resistant to subaccounting.
And then the longer term issue on subaccounting really eventually gets down to is this a distribution expense that the fiduciaries call trustees and Boards of Directors of funds are really aware of.
And is there any potential change there in the short-term? I think the answer is no.
We don't really have an analysis that we would put out on the lines that you just asked.
So we really can't respond to that very effectively.
LLC</strong> Here is the problem Tom.
I've been involved in your company for 12 years.
I've watched it for a long time.
I cover 15 stocks and I think I have a better understanding of the subaccounting issue than you're willing to articulate.
And so I just don't sense any sense of urgency.
It's like if the business is in decline and output for 10 years has not been able to achieve target margins how do we get the business so that it's not a wasting asset? Can you manage the business to at least flat revenue and earnings over the next three years? Well I mean our goal would not be to manage it to flat but to figure out a way to manage it to up.
And certainly I mean if we don't sound emotional on the call I think that your sense that there's no sense of urgency around here is inaccurate but you're entitled to your judgment.
LLC</strong> Last question.
In terms of the Health Solutions business.
In the aggregate both Health Solutions and Argus on an organic basis did that business grow in the first quarter? Modestly in top-level terms I mean the challenge we have at Argus is we know that also has a balance component of $350 million or so.
And so with interest rates low the actual reported earnings at Argus are impacted by that and the earnings that flow through on the Financial Services side.
I think that part of the challenge or question of where you go with Health business is we think that there should be some opportunities for growth in the healthcare side.
Lot of it depends on where the debates come out on what the actual healthcare reform will end up as what these healthcare exchanges and so forth will look at or look like.
But the business is certainly stable to slightly up.
But we haven't -- I think there was a sense some months ago that around the whole healthcare world there'd be a lot more dramatic changes.
They haven't materialized yet.
We do think that there will have to be changes which tends to be positive for us because we change technology we change it in one system where in the industry people have in-house or other systems you have to make a lots of changes and the costs there become significant.
So we think that there's generally a positive bias going forward but nothing dramatic at the moment.
There are no more questions in queue.
Please continue.
Well we have no more comments to make.
And we appreciate you all taking the time on the call and we'll look forward to the next call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 11:00 a.m.
today until April 27 2011 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T replay system at anytime by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701.
International parties may dial 1 (320) 365-3844 and enter the access code of 198409.
That will conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Now I'd like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Tom McDonnell.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Joining me on the call today are Steve Hooley President and COO; and Ken Hager CFO.
Before we get into the discussion I need to make the following statement.
If in the course of our conference call today we make forward-looking statements regarding DST or any of its businesses such statements would be based on our views as of today and actual results could differ materially from forecasted results.
There could be a number of factors affecting future results including those set forth in the latest periodic report we filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that we may make.
Since the participants on the call have access to our detailed earnings release we will focus our comments on those items that we think are of the most significance.
Before we get into our discussion of the financial results for the second quarter we wanted to spend a few minutes discussing the strategic acquisitions that we've recently announced.
DST is a disciplined buyer and our acquisition strategy is to increase our product capabilities and expand our presence in key vertical markets that we currently serve as well as some adjacent markets.
On July 19 we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire ALPS Holdings a provider of -- they provide a comprehensive suite of asset servicing asset management and asset gathering solutions to open-end mutual funds closed-end funds exchange traded funds and alternative investment funds.
We expect the transaction will close in the fourth quarter of this year.
We also expect the addition of ALPS to be accretive before we take into account any anticipated synergies from the transaction.
Currently we're estimating a contribution of $0.06 per share in 2012 and that's before the realization of the synergies and any offset in associated cost of achieving those synergies.
On a cash basis the ALPS acquisition should be accretive next year by $0.26 a share.
To the calculation of EPS impact that we've done to date it's been on a conservative estimate of intangible amortization and the final accretion number could increase from the $0.06 estimate.
The finalized amount should be available to us by the time we do our third quarter release.
The ALPS acquisition provides some growth opportunities for DST in sort of 3 broad dimensions.
ALPS brings a comprehensive solution set that allows DST to service market segments that we were previously unable to address and they're sectors of the markets that really require a bundled solution.
So in addition to the traditional open-end closed-end mutual funds we're now in a position to service the growing markets of hedged funds and exchange traded funds.
And finally ALPS expands our product offerings beyond pure transfer agency.
ALPS through their asset servicing division provides fund and tax administration fund accounting medallion distribution services legal and compliance services including chief compliance office services and creative services including like graphic design print management web design and hosting.
We believe that the addition of DST's market presence to ALPS and our customers will benefit from DST's significant data center and technology infrastructure.
We also have expanded our product offerings to the broker/dealer market through our April 29 acquisition of the assets of Finix Business Strategies that's a financial services consulting firm with extensive brokerage and technology expertise.
And as part of that we also acquired Finix Converge that's a technology firm that develops and distributes the enterprise solution networking and media platform that enables our client firms to connect and collaborate with their constituents more effectively on an online basis.
On June 20 we acquired Subserveo that's a provider of automated compliance and surveillance solutions to broker/dealers and investment advisors throughout the U.S.
and Canada.
Subserveo provides systems that can be used by retail and institutional broker/dealers as well as clearing firms.
Subserveo performs daily analysis of transactions orders and account holdings and it's supported by an extensive library of ready-to-use compliance test.
Client organizations rely on Subserveo for its detailed compliance alerts and case management.
So in addition to the system -- in addition the system facilitates activities at branch management and central office associated with the review and identification of customer accounts where risks and objectives are not in line with those indicated by the customer.
So compliance in any money laundering officer use the system to conduct surveillance of transactions accounts and asset movement by referencing government and third-party sourced watch list.
The system's delivered on a Software-as-a-Service model which allows its deployments on a broad base on a cost-effective basis.
Finix and Subserveo along with DST TASS which is our subsidiary that provides full service subaccounting will be operated as one strategic business unit.
And this business unit will be our channel to provide products to the broker/dealer market and will also manage the distribution of our AWD Vision Professional and print/mail products to that marketplace.
Finix Converge and Subserveo are sort of development early-stage companies and currently DST's anticipating additional investment directed towards these companies as well as additional investment to develop the retirement insurance segments to their full potential.
The amount of that investment over the next 24 to 30 months we're currently estimating about $50 million to $60 million and that will substantially be recognized through the P&amp;L as a period-incurred cost.
If you convert that to a per share basis the tax effect it represents $0.75 to $0.85 per share over that period.
Previously we had indicated that we anticipated spending $8 million or $9 million in 2011 on the development of the insurance products.
The current estimates of $50 million to $60 million have $5 million or $6 million embedded in them for the insurance development.
The difference between the original estimates where money is expended in the first half of the year because the $50 million to $60 million is an estimate in effect from June 30 forward.
We've also added to our healthcare products with the July 1 acquisition of the assets of IntelliSource Health Solutions they are a provider of mission-critical business systems for health plans.
Their principal product is CareConnect and what CareConnect does is provide a complete case management system that supports a health plan clinical teams and professionals by automating the process of creating care plans and performing health risk assessments.
We plan to integrate the CareConnect product into our proprietary claims offerings which will allow our customers to have access to a fully integrated solution both the claims data as well as the management of that data with CareConnect.
We anticipate an extension of these products not only into our customer base but offered to a broader segment of the healthcare industry.
Again in product extensions we extended capabilities both in retirement and healthcare when we acquired Newkirk on May 2.
Newkirk will be operated as part of Output.
And stepping back DST Output produces statements for retirement plans' participants produces expiration of benefits and bills for insured individuals.
So in effect Output produces the communications to an individual after they enroll or sign up for participation in a retirement savings plan or healthcare coverage.
However Newkirk develops and produces sort of preenrollment and pre-participation communications that can include information to help a particular individual personalize a retirement or healthcare plan.
So it gives us with -- our customers set sort of a front-end all the way through back-end management of the communications with their customer set.
Newkirk actually develops communications and sales materials for insurance agents also across the U.S.
And Newkirk will provide access to an expanded customer base for Output's back-end statement and bill production.
And then Newkirk as I mentioned will be able to market its pre-enrollment pre- sign up products to Output's current customer base.
Newkirk's products have an immediate applicability on a broader dimension to the DST retirement solutions area.
McKay Hochman a subsidiary of Newkirk has built its business since 1979 by providing employee benefit consulting for a wide range of IRS-approved retirement plans and developed a portfolio of readily adaptable prototype plans and subsequent updates using a kind of contemporary electronic communications channels.
Another Newkirk subsidiary MasteryPOINT offers a software-based solution that supports expanded employee participation in employer-sponsored plans by employing a suite of tools to educate the employee on retirement planning investment selection and other retirement considerations.
We're going to embed these services into the DST retirement solution offerings.
We view investment management brokerage retirement insurance and healthcare as some of our key vertical markets and we plan to continue to market and enhance our comprehensive solution sets for each of these verticals.
So far this year we will -- have invested approximately $320 million in the acquisitions I referred to and we anticipate that on a run rate for 2012 those acquisitions will add approximately $165 million of annualized operating revenue.
Before we step into the details of the operating results for the quarter I'd like to point to a few items.
On June 30 of this year we amended our $600 million revolving syndicated bank facility.
The amendment extended the maturity date to July 1 2015 and lowered the interest rate and facility fees by a total of 75 basis points.
In addition the aggregate commitment under the facility was increased to $630 million.
So this restructuring of that particular facility adds to our financial flexibility given us plenty of capacity to invest in our key vertical markets either through internal development or acquisitions.
On May 19 of this year we renewed our $150 million accounts receivable securitization program and extended it by a year.
Again the interest rate spreads came in there and they were lowered by 55 basis points in connection with that renewal.
During the period we repurchased $7.9 million base of our Series C debentures for $8.8 million that resulted in a pretax loss of approximately $900 000 or slightly more than $0.01 a share.
So at the end of the quarter at June 30 2011 we had approximately $88.1 million of the Series C debentures that's still outstanding.
Total debt increased by $21.7 million to $1.2 billion at the end of the quarter on June 30 principally of additional financing for funding acquisitions.
And as previously announced during the quarter we paid a $0.35 per share cash dividend that was on April 8 and that represented a $0.05 per share or 16.7% increase over the prior dividend.
In May on May 10 2011 our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of additional 2 million shares.
During the quarter we purchased 123 500 of our common stock and that was at an average price of $49.39.
Now turning to the second quarter financial results.
And as a reminder all the comments on the results that we're going to follow are referred to on a non-GAAP basis.
So on an adjusted non-GAAP basis diluted earnings per share were $1.05 for the quarter and that was a decrease of $0.18 or 14.6% from the second quarter of 2010.
The consolidated operating revenues for the quarter were $421.1 million that was an increase of $21.5 million or 5.3% from 2010 that reflects the inclusion of dsicmm Group which was folded into IOS and Newkirk revenues of Newkirk for a portion of the period.
Consolidated operating income declined by $12.2 million or 14.1% from the second quarter 2010.
Contributors to that were lower mutual fund shareowner processing lower software license revenues and some losses at IOS.
And there were some offsets to those by higher contributions from Output Solutions U.S.
operations.
And in the equity and earnings of unconsolidated affiliates a decrease by $2.6 million that reflected lower earnings at IFDS Ireland Canada and BFDS but offset to some degree by the increased earnings at IFDS U.K.
As the business progresses and some of the movement in accounts service and so forth we continue to closely monitor our operating cost and on an appropriate basis make adjustments based on where we see the business outlook and business requirements.
Financial Services the operating revenues decreased $9.2 million or 3.2% over the second quarter of 2010.
That reflects lower mutual fund shareowner processing and reflects in DST HealthCare revenues and AWD some lower software license revenues.
The software license revenues declined by $3 million compared to the second quarter of '10.
And -- while software licenses are not a significant portion of our overall revenue the change in those license have a very significant impact on operating income as when the period that they're recorded has a minimal expense primarily just the sales expense associated with the license associated with them.
Income from ops decreased $12.1 million or 15.7%.
And of that decrease $3 million was the result of increased differed comp cost.
And as I mentioned a moment ago $3 million is from lower software licenses the remainder is just the derivative of some overall lower revenues.
Coming back to the $3 million of deferred comp cost DST maintains a limited number of deferred compensation plans a primary one being that there's a mandatory deferral of a portion of annual incentive compensation.
So basically DST funds the liability to those individuals who can select investment options by acquiring matching assets and that eliminates ultimately the income statement effective changes in that liability.
The change in the liability whether an increase or decrease is recorded in operating expense and then the change in the corresponding related investment assets is recorded in other income but at the pretax level the 2 offset.
So we really have this phenomena every quarter where we're reporting either an increase or decrease on the one side and an offsetting amount on the other.
We have referred to it in the past but we felt it was useful maybe to give a little broader explanation of it.
And again this is something that we'll at least have the metrics of each quarter going forward.
During the quarter the registered mutual fund accounts we serviced declined by 2.2 million.
Conversions to subaccounting platforms totaled 2.7 million 200 000 of those came over to DST subaccounting platform.
Conversions to non-DST registered account platforms as opposed to subaccounting totaled 300 000 but we did experience organic growth of registered accounts of 700 000.
So the net effect of subaccounting activities resulted in an increase of 1.2 million subaccounts on our system for the quarter and that increase consisted of conversions from non-DST registered platforms of 200 000 accounts organic growth of 800 000 and conversions from our own registered platform of 200 000.
When we're looking at the outlook for the registered accounts that'll be converting to subaccounts based on information that we continually work with our clients to try and ascertain order of magnitude and timing and of course sense or estimates are always subject to change or delays but we're currently anticipate that the subaccounting trend continues and that we think that the total subaccounting conversions in 2011 similar to '10 would be in a total for the year of 12 million to 14 million accounts.
Like I said with any estimate the amount or the timing can easily vary.
As I indicated during the quarter -- well I haven't indicated this yet during the quarter we are advised by 2 of our existing clients that they intend to convert approximately 700 000 new registered accounts to DST's platforms by the end of the year.
As we've previously discussed we've been notified by 2 clients that are affiliates of Bank of New York Mellon.
As you know Bank of New York Mellon is a direct competitor of DST and they intend to convert to BONY's in-house system in the period from September 11 of this year -- September 2011 this year to mid- 2012.
The amount involved here for the 2 clients there's about 800 000 registered accounts that are to be coming out of our system and about 8.4 million subaccounts.
And of the 8.4 million subaccounts 3 million are projected to convert between now and the end of the year and the remaining in 2012 and the numbers I gave you earlier of the 12 million to 14 million would include the 3 million of relative to this particular client that we anticipate going out basically in the fourth quarter.
Turning to Retirement.
We experienced a decline of defined contribution participants of 400 000 in the quarter and we ought to explain that a little bit.
What that reflects is on an annual basis there is a removal of participants who terminated during the prior year.
If you look at overall retirement account participants they were 4.3 million at June 30 of '11 and that's an increase of 500 000 participants from the same period last year.
And also we have commitments which we've previously communicated.
Retirement Solutions Division will be converting 1.4 million participant accounts in 2012 and '13.
Based on the current anticipated conversion schedule 600 000 are expected to convert in the first half of '12 and the remainder in 2013.
Coming back to the 400 000 accounts the way defined contribution plans work if there is a terminated participant left the job or what have you they terminate within a year but generally we get keep them on the system and to the second quarter of the following year so that we can handle tax and other required reporting.
So I think on a seasonal basis or I think we would say "Definitely on a seasonal basis" in the second quarter of going-forward years we will see sort of the removal of the terminated participants.
So this is sort of both a natural and an annual phenomenon.
Looking at BFDS they had reduced levels of accounts serviced this goes to some of the reduction in their earnings.
And that reflects subaccount conversions of -- that impacted them that's really the majority of the decline in their earnings.
But also BFDS' average balances for the period increased to $1 billion from $910 million last year but over that compared period there is also a decline in the average interest rate earned to 9 basis points from 20 basis points last year.
That computed to a total pretax reduction in BFDS' earnings of about $1.1 million.
And the IFDS U.K.
has had some good performance accounts and income increased.
There was a slight decline in Canada in accounts serviced.
Although IFDS Canada has received a client commitment for the conversion of approximately 1.7 million accounts in the third quarter of '12 this represents an increase of 15% on our current account base in Canada of 10.7 million accounts.
Some of the reduction in earnings at Canada reflect that cost for the conversion which is a significant one are already being incurred and like I said they contributed to that reduction in earnings.
At IFDS Ireland that's where the Percana life insurance software is owned that software is being introduced to clients in the U.K.
marketplace and there is some initial cost associated with entering that market place and specifically with the conversion of an initial client.
Going back to Output.
Output Solutions' operating revenues increased by $30.6 million over 2010.
It's principally from the dsicmm acquisition in July of last year.
If you turn to just Output U.S.
operating revenues they were down $400 000 for the quarter.
But that's sort of a net number because it reflects loss revenues from discontinued client relationships that were discontinued in '10 of approximately $10 million on an annualized and also lower telecom revenues.
But those reductions were offset by revenues from new clients higher postal service processing revenues higher fulfillment revenues and the inclusion Newkirk for a couple of months.
And during the second quarter of '11 Output Solutions received 3 new client commitments that represent about 58 million aggregate packages annually.
Full conversion activities related to these clients is expected to be completed in the first half of '12.
Output Solutions' reported income from ops for the second quarter of 2011 was $9.1 million that represents an increase of $600 000 or 7.1% compared to the second quarter of '10.
And I said the increase was the result of higher U.S.
operating income offset by some -- still incurring some transitional costs related to facility and equipment rationalization at IOS.
If you exclude those costs the IOS costs Output would have reported income from ops of $11.7 million and that adjusted operating income of $11.7 million would have resulted in an adjusted operating margin of 8.1% on the quarter's revenues of $144.3 million.
We've continued to point out that EBITDA generated an output and it was up $20.1 million for the quarter that's an increase from last year of $1.5 million or 8.1%.
The income tax rate for the quarter was 34% and that compared to 32.1% in the second quarter of '10 and we currently estimate our tax rate for '11 will approximate about 34.5% but it will continue to vary on a quarterly basis really depends on the sources of taxable income both the nature of income or the geography of the income.
And so our estimated rate for the full year we think declined to change is primarily in that mix of earnings as I just referred to.
That concludes our remarks.
So operator could we open the call to questions please? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jim Kissane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Jim Kissane.
What can you guys do over the next 12 to 18 months to get to the real -- get to the value that you think exists at DST? I mean I think a few weeks ago you said the stock was undervalued.
Well I want to say what we can do Jim where we are and you can see that after a period of somewhat inactivity on the acquisition front I think we have been looking specifically where the areas of potential growth are.
Clearly the challenge of decline in subaccounting continues but the decline in registered had moved to subaccounting.
Closely related to that business is the retirement solutions business.
We talked about the 4.3 million accounts there.
By the time we get the 1.4 million on we're going to be the second or third largest processor there.
That's a business line that has a much more attractive revenue line on a per participant basis.
But because of the order of magnitude of those conversions and because of interest that we see from other potential clients we're not only spending money on the actual conversion of those participants but we're building expanded conversion teams to decrease sort of the implementation time for new business.
So you're going to see -- and that's embedded somewhat in that $50 million to $60 million spend over the next 18 months.
So we're pretty comfortable that we're well set with the retirement as I indicated.
Newkirk brings sort of -- we can go pretty much start to finish from the time we enroll you to the time we account for you to the time we retire you.
So that we're -- we feel we've got all the pieces in place there and it's really a question of getting to market and expanding that.
Sort of a derivation in some ways of subaccounting is all of the things that are happening in the brokerage community expansion to the IFA marketplace versus the traditional wirehouses and so we decided sometime back and have put in place 2 to 3 more building blocks that'll be directly related to support of the distribution systems as opposed to the product manufacturers.
So when I talked about what we've done with Finix bringing that together with Subserveo and integrating the management of the TASS full-service which primarily targets that smaller broker/dealer IFA marketplace as a client we think we've got both the human resources and the technology in place.
Because particularly say Subserveo and the Finix aspect of that are early-stage businesses they will also take some investment and development which again was bundled into those numbers.
So -- and then we think very significantly is the acquisition of ALPS because for some time there has been a segment of the market that requires a bundled set of products that DST just didn't have in its portfolio so this allows us to access  that.
So if we look at those we see growth engines there.
We believe that we have validated that our reentry into the insurance processing market is going to be a good strategy.
The Percana software which was based in Ireland is very good software however it did needed a couple of things.
It needed to be re-platformed to a Java language to fit U.S.
marketplace and it needed requirements built into it for the U.S.
marketplace.
We're in the process of finalizing a lot of that so that we're really moving more to a go-to-market strategy.
Over the next 6 to 9 months we recruited we think an excellent executive team there from the insurance industry.
Because we've attended a number of LOMA or other insurance meetings.
We've had quite a bit of interest in this strategy and then the technology in particular.
Some of that early feedback as we shifted a little bit of the emphasis to the payout side of the system there seems to be a contemporary demand for that particularly where annuity providers don't feel they have a good solution there.
But once again that's going to have some investment and so when you say "What can we do over the next 12 to 18 months?" Commit to those investments measure them against their objectives that we've set and move more aggressively into those markets which we believe will have some of the growth characteristics continuing to manage in many cases the cost elements of the business that are directly impacted by moves from registered accounts to subaccounts.
Bringing all that together I think what we would like to think is that with success in the 4 broad areas retirement insurance ALPS and broker-supported strategies that we will start to see some revenue generation that has growth characteristics that that will probably in the short term we -- it'll probably be viewed more as offsetting the losses but once -- of subaccounting but to the extent that we're correct in our assumption that that level is out over the next 24 months then it should actually in our estimation produce some legitimate growth opportunities.
We continue to look at Output.
We think we've got a lot of the issues addressed in the U.S.
We'd absorbed a lot of revenue loss with a large telecom client canceling last year as you remember like $58 million termination fee associated with that.
Other telecom clients have substantially relooked at the amount of data they put on the bills that's reduced pages.
So we think we're coming off of a low web.
With the exception of the startup transitional stuff where we're reconfiguring some of the business at IOS in the U.K.
We think the margins are starting to go the right way in Output and with the acquisition of Newkirk we think it expands the opportunity there.
But I guess it's going to take 24 to 30 months before you really know if you're meeting your objectives.
So I'm really trying to get a sense of the next 12 to 18 months.
Well I don't know -- the 24 to 30 months Jim is the timeframe we anticipate those investment expenditures will be made.
As I said we reoriented some of them in the insurance side to pay out which we think will accelerate revenue opportunities in that side so we sort of said "Here's the investment.
We're going to look at it quarter to quarter wanting to see if we're on track with that investment level and where." But I would like to think that throughout that period over the next 12 months we'll be able to report client gains in the retirement side or some initial market penetration for insurance.
So I don't think it's 24 to 30 months to start to see some realization of positives there but I do think that the way the investment is scheduled is because of the nature of those big complex systems.
We think it is that period that will -- that that investment will be consumed over the 24 to 30 month period.
Does that help at all? Yes that helpful.
I mean but is your GAAP EPS going to be hit by $0.80 over the next 30 months? I mean can you talk maybe some offsets? Are you thinking that the ALPS I guess cash accretion is offsetting that? One of the things will you step up the buyback? I mean are going to get to the 10% margins in Output or it was going to get hit with the $0.80 over the next 2.5 years? Well absolutely the $0.80 will be there but we think ALPS as we said earlier is accretive by $0.26 on a cash basis.
That's -- we're not reflecting any synergies.
We think simple synergies Jim like consolidation into our data center and so forth will produce some meaningful savings.
I think we're taking -- overall were going to get $5 million of synergy.
If you want to call that $0.10 a share of pretax so we think we'll get an uplift there.
Certainly as I mentioned we wouldn't be beefing up the conversion teams and the investment teams and the spend in the retirement solution side if we did not anticipate what's a fairly robust pipeline there.
So I think we would expect successes beyond that $1.4 million and I think that can start to roll in.
And just over the period just the committed business we have right now it burns off some of the conversion and implementation expense really by the end of 2012 and should have positive results in '13.
So -- and that's just with the big business we have committed and we're in effect pressing against that committed revenue stream 100% of the costs associated with building the team for business expansion Jim.
Okay.
And just on Output I mean you talked about stronger revenue there.
Does that get you to your double-digit in late 2012 do you think? I think part of it depends on how the reconfiguration at IOS.
We're -- there can be some building consolidation equipment.
Some of that will look differently in the depreciation line if we upgrade because as you know we use accelerated depreciation for books.
Also even I mentioned the decline in some of the high-volume statement production at Output several of the businesses I referred to electronic postal services where we aggregate more mail for postal savings for a broader range of clients actually carry higher margins.
So I'd like to think in '12 we'll achieve that double-digit number.
I am not sure it might be more front-loaded than back-loaded.
And just on M&amp;A in the telco space.
Do you see more risk or opportunity for your Output business? Well of course.
The big thing in Congress now is what happens with the AT&amp;T T-Mobile.
At this point it's kind of a tossup.
It's -- I mean we don't know how to speculate on who's going to come out as the winner.
And by the way I think even because of the volume and the size of telcos and because of their pricing power so to speak or negotiating power I mean it's good business to have to maintain volumes but some of the business that would be at risk there certainly would not be our highest margin business.
Okay.
And Tom if you don't mind can I get one last question.
Not to put you on the spot but I know you're a long-term value investor.
But what is your time horizon for realizing the value of DST? Well I mean I think well clearly over the past several years one was this I'm not going to blame anything on the overall economy but it certainly hasn't helped our business or anyone else's.
Subaccounting has been our biggest problem.
Looking forward we feel that we have to make a transition in the company to a range of our verticals retirement healthcare that give us some growth opportunities and I'd like to think that going out of '12 and into '13 that'll be much more visible.
The wildcard is where does subaccounting settle out.
And we're thinking that out of next year we're -- things should have settled to the low lev.
We have some very serious repositioning of data center and other costs that are key elements of costs.
And if our overall sense of subaccounting is right Jim I think you would see trying to get back on track to what becomes a more visible growth opportunity therefore maybe a rethinking of what the multiples are.
I would also like to think that over time we've shown to investors that we're perfectly willing to reevaluate businesses of the company whether its many years ago: merging our trust company and the State Street; the sale of EquiServe to Computershare; the merger of our subsidiary lock\line into Asurion and eventual sale of that.
I think we're realistic about businesses and their prospects.
But we're also realistic that even given whatever view of the prospect is sometimes there is favorable markets to affect a restructuring and sometimes there's not and so you I think have to balance those as to where we're going forward.
But I think you could expect that we'll continue to review the portfolio shifting the concentration to where we think we can get some growth and using monetization strategy if we think they're appropriate tax efficient and deliver ultimate value to the shareowner.
Our next question comes from the line of David Koning at Baird.
I guess first of all the $565 million of acquired revenue obviously includes businesses across many different business lines.
But in aggregate is there any way you think the kind of the growth rate I know these are earlier-stage businesses do you think in total that revenue stream is it 10%? Is it 15%? Is there any way that you can just think about roughly how fast that's growing? Well I think if you want to go roughly absolute minimum would be 10%.
Now for instance insurance it will have no revenue for a period of time and then when it starts to get revenue it will have on a percentage basis very very significant step-ups.
Because we sign one client with a -- that's a 100 and then the next client is 200.
So those percentages -- I think given that a couple of them we don't expect like insurance to actually capture revenue until maybe late first quarter maybe into second quarter to next year.
And on retirement solutions as I mentioned we have a good pipeline but usually there is about a 9 -- 6 to 9 months between final contract signing and revenue recognition by the time you get accounts converted.
I think if you would think maybe order of magnitude that the 165 run rate I'd say if you -- for modeling if you're thinking it'll go up 10% at a minimum next year and then would like to think it will reach mid-teens growth rates subsequent to that.
But as you pointed out since it's got the 4 elements in it and some of them coming from very low basis it's -- you'll have to sort of say "Well one maybe growing faster but one won't grow at all until midyear." So that's -- I guess if you were trying to say "How do I think of it in next year and then future years?" I'd say if you used Kentucky windage 10% 11% next year.
And then thought of it at mid to upper teens for those businesses subsequent to that that'd be realistic.
Okay.
Now that's great.
And then just I guess following up a little bit on your comment of about how over the next 24 months you said the subaccounting shifts could start to level off a little bit.
And then back in New York it's been trying to get a little more aggressive with the tax-advantaged accounts moving to subaccounting.
I guess how should we kind of think about those 2 comments? I mean do you feel pretty good that the tax advantage that's really not going to be much of an impact? Well the tax advantage breaks into 2 or 3 components.
529s and we did announce a bulk of those has moved.
529s are -- there's some concentration in brokers that subaccount but 529s cover a wide swap and so we think the likely penetration there is not as high.
And also 529s aren't just a single decision of fund and the broker.
You've got the State Treasurer you've got a lot of other constituencies that'd get involved.
And the other thing if you look at movement in 529s there's been over time quite a bit competition.
And yes there's one sponsor as of one day but another has it the next or not a day-to-day but -- I mean of 3-year periods.
So -- sort of the rotational costs for lack of a better term of -- you're going to be -- try to go subaccounting one then it comes up with a different sponsor that mitigates somewhat against it.
When you get in to the more traditional IRAs and so forth they are broadly dispersed across wide ranges of brokers and more limited concentration in subaccounting brokers and part of that is because a lot of the subaccounting brokers have their own IRA plans anyway and that IRAs as individual accounts and mutual funds are sold more by financial planners and so forth.
And then of course you also have the issue depending on whose plan it is that there is also fiduciary responsibilities that sit with the trustee and the custodians.
So we're not saying they won't make some in-road but the -- if you looked at sort of the inherent factors that would preclude serious penetration I've tried to outline them for you that's kind of the way we would see it.
Great.
And then just one final one.
Output you had just anniversaried that loss the telco loss.
You also have had a lot of pretty big wins over the last probably 2 to 6 quarters that I think a lot of that starts to come on the back half of 2011.
Should Output grow organically in the back half of 2011? Well I would like to think we will.
I mean there's 2 factors there.
Within output sometimes we lose printed statements but we do electronic presentment also for quite a range of our clients.
So what happens then is you may lose a higher revenue unit with a very low margin replaced a little lower revenue with a higher margin.
So I think you're starting to see some of that and some of the services that I mentioned that had offset the losses do have nice margins associate with them.
So recognizing that you've heard us say for some time we know how to address Output.
We think some of the acquisitions we've made are going to be very helpful.
I would agree with your assessment but I'd also suggest you approach it cautiously for the next couple of quarters till we see the proof in the pudding.
Our next question comes from the line of David Togut with Evercore Partners.
Can you kind of breakdown the $50 million to $60 million in spending over the next 24 to 30 months as to how this is going to hit the P&amp;L? So how much hits the P&amp;L in the second half of this year? How much in 2012 2013 and so on? We don't have that specifically in front of us.
We mentioned earlier and we suggested that we'd spent $8 million to $9 million on insurance.
In the first half of the year we spent about $3 million.
So you got $5 million or $6 million that'll occur yet here.
I would guess 60% of it will probably show up in '12 and the remainder will slip into '13.
Once we get it ramped because some of it David is ramping up the people that work on it so you might hit the full run rate let's say like Q1 I would expect that to stay stable Q2 Q3 Q4 in '12 and then start to taper off mid and the first quarter in '13.
I see.
And then on the acquisitions that you talked about the $165 million of acquisition revenue for 2012 what is the blended EBIT or EBITDA margin on that acquired revenue? And if you could give us a sense of what the revenue and EBIT contribution from acquisitions will be in the second half of this year as well? No that -- I just don't have that number right offhand.
I would -- and again you get into where we're going to be with intangibles and this order of magnitude knowing the way we calculate it the purchase prices as multiples of those.
I'm going to say $35 million to $40 million.
$35 million to $40 million in annualized EBIT or EBITDA? EBITDA.
Okay.
And then the ALPS acquisition you've said is $0.26 accretive to 2012 cash EPS.
What makes that so accretive? Is that was that just a privately negotiated sale no competition or? Well there was competition it's just a very good business.
I can't comment too much on it because it doesn't close until fourth quarter.
And while we are confident it will close we actually have some disclosure restrictions David until such point.
But suffice it to say it's a very attractive business at good historic growth and demonstratable growth at current periods and we think predictable good growth characteristics going forward.
I can't really say any more in that given the terms of our acquisition agreement.
And then you talked Ken about I think you both talked about adding 58 million aggregate packages in the Output business in 2012.
What's the approximate revenue contribution from of that conversion next year? Well 58 million packages are going to be about 3% of incremental total volume and these some of it by the way replaces some of the -- when we talked about some of these lost of telecom if we were producing a 7-page statement and they got rid of 4 the way we price it is the first page is the highest priced and then the second page is a little less.
So what's happened we've had some available capacity David from loss of lower revenue units and these would be more front-ended units.
So I think if you were thinking 3% volume and a somewhat higher percentage of revenue in that.
I see.
Okay.
And then on the first quarter call you mentioned that you expect 900 000 full-service registered accounts to convert to a non-DST platform in the third quarter this year but I don't think you referenced it in the second quarter release.
Has anything changed with that conversion? No.
We just -- rather than keep repeating stuff that we've already announced we just did not put that back in again.
Okay.
And just final question.
Jim referenced this in his questions but do you intend to respond directly to some of the requests made by Russell Glass with respect to hiring an investment banker to explore strategic alternatives to serve some of the other requests that he has made? Well that's really an issue that sits with our board.
They have received -- all information has been provided to us.
Our board has consistently maintained relationships with external advisors where they deem appropriate.
But at this point we're just not commenting on that particular activity.
Our next and final question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale Partners.
LLC</strong> As regards to ALPS I think one of the more intriguing pieces there and I don't know how much additional detail you can provide is the fact that it appears that they're one of the top providers of servicing to the ETF industry with at least one major client and several medium-size clients.
Can you talk about exactly what they do for the ETF industry? And if there's an opportunity I know that the vast majority of ETF asset there were providers but there's a number of fast-growing startups in the ETF industry.
Can you talk a little bit about that opportunity? Well you we mentioned the medallion distribution that's one of the major services they provide to that industry.
We would certainly agree with you that they're one of the leaders.
We certainly agree with you they're extremely well-positioned and see -- presented to them a lot of opportunities as some of that ETF market expands.
We think they've been particularly innovative and creative there.
Anything I'd go -- if anything I should say beyond that Pete I think could get me into issues with our agreements now.
Like I said we anticipate it closing in the fourth quarter so subsequent to that as we've indicated we're going to run it is a standalone unit.
It will -- even though running standalone it will have significant opportunities for cross marketing with other DST areas.
We certainly have some of the synergies we alluded to earlier like the $5 million.
But in Q1 of '12 we'll be able to give you a much better sense of how it's positioned with the company what its performance was in '11 and therefore what kind of base we think we're coming off of performance in '12.
But I'm just constrained by the terms of our agreement.
I just can't get you beyond that at this point.
LLC</strong> I understand.
Ken can you give me when you talk about the accretion of cash EPS or cash accretion from the ALPS deal.
Can you give me the portion of depreciation and amortization in 2010 that was related to the amortization of acquisition intangibles? 2010? LLC</strong> Yes.
Just so I can build up to what would be a cash EPS number for DST prior to these recent acquisitions and then I can think about okay well what would be the accretion to that cash EPS number.
Pete would it be useful if we just gave the cash EPS number each quarter? LLC</strong> I think it would.
Well we'll take a look and see if that's something we can accommodate.
Pete we would estimate that in '11 that number is between $18 million and $20 million.
LLC</strong> Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
And then do you have an operating cash flow number for the quarter yet? Cash flow from operations? LLC</strong> Yes.
Yes I do.
Can you hang on just a second? Cash flow from operations was -- would be like $77 million roughly.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is regards to some of the joint ventures.
It seems as if IFDS has announced a number of new customers new relationships that appear to be potentially an acceleration is that just a change in the press release policy of announcing new deals or is it -- is there in fact an acceleration of a new business wins there? Well I think in the U.K.
there has been definitely the acceleration.
Part of what we see there Pete is where -- through IFDS U.K.
we also are an owner of 20-somewhat percent of Cofunds which is a mutual fund supermarket in the U.K.
And we're the processing engine for the shareholder component behind it.
So in the U.K.
there is sort of a similar phenomena where accounts have been going from the registered book to the supermarket that's been particularly useful for us there to have that supermarket position so we continue to grow even though some of our accounts have been disintermediated.
But there's a -- well not a phenomena a fact in the UK is that there's still a very very high percentage of in-house operations many of them relatively small and as they lose accounts to the supermarket their internal cost on a unitized basis kind of get out of hand.
But we've seen more movement in the U.K.
towards account acquisitions.
So there is somewhat a trend in the U.K.
But how long it goes is not predictable but I think your assessment of that is sort of a trend for the last several months and probably over the next 12 to 18 is positive.
When we mentioned some of the -- not pressure but the costs incurred in Ireland we're actually bringing the insurance system into the U.K.
through IFDS U.K.
They're converting an initial client on it right now.
And we think with our client base there is a good opportunity to bring insurance processing to the U.K.
marketplace on that system.
Canada as we mentioned though that's a smaller market a little more concentrated.
The win up there is a big win but when you add 15% to the account base there's always some new features you have to accommodate and then that's a fair-sized conversion effort so that's really why the pressure was on Canada.
But I'd say the overall if there's a trend the place that it would be more visible would be in the U.K.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just last comment as regard to some of the questions about realizing value.
I think many most of you will agree that companies generate a lot of value with their investment program.
But it's clear the market doesn't provide a whole lot of value to that today in the prices of stock.
Is there a way that we could talk about in future releases putting out a framework to discuss some of these other assets and talk about which ones are operational which ones are potentially liquid and maybe potentially some of the market values on some of the things like real estate and private equity investments? Well I'm not sure I can answer that today in a meaningful way.
But I think clearly we are concerned that there continues to be it's hopefully between our price and what we think would be a more in terms of value.
I think the overhang of subaccounting has been uniquely problematic and I'm not suggesting that maybe trying to quantify some of the elements or the other some of that will get a little complex because theyre in joint ventures and so forth and in all cases we're not on our own totally allowed to discuss some of the elements.
We're obviously thinking through better ways to present visibility in the company and we will take all that into account Pete see if we can at least maybe one step at a time present some things in a different structure like as you mentioned that cash EPS to see if we can provide a sufficient visibility maybe to overcome some of that value concern.
But I'd have to say until we can both as a company and as investors get comfortable as to where subaccounting is sorted out I think that's going to be a bit of a drag on any efforts or expectations for a while.
Well thank you for joining us today and we will schedule a call after the next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after noon Central today until August 3 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T playback service at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 209144.
International participants may dial 1 (320) 365-3844 and the access code is 209144.
That does conclude our conference for today and thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Tom McDonnell.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning.
We appreciate you joining our earnings call this morning.
With me here today are Steve Hooley our President and COO; and Ken Hager the company's CFO.
Before beginning I'd like to remind everyone that in the course of our conference call today we will make forward-looking statements regarding DST or some of its businesses and such statements are based on our views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forecasted results.
There could be a number of factors affecting those future results including risk factors set forth in our latest annual and quarterly reports which we file with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that we may make.
Since you have access to our detailed earnings release we will focus our comments on those items that we think are most significant.
This morning we made an additional announcement regarding our Board of Directors strategic review process.
Before we review our third quarter financial results I'd like to take a moment to discuss this announcement and our business plan to create additional value for the shareowners.
As you know in August we announced that our board had retained independent financial and legal advisers to assist in an ongoing review of the company's business plan its assets and its investment portfolio.
With the assistance of our advisers the board engaged in a comprehensive review process and our Board of Directors unanimously determined that continuing to execute the company's business plan and strategy is in the best interest of DST and all of its shareowners.
Our board is confident that the company's focus on 5 key industry verticals: asset management brokerage retirement insurance and healthcare as well as the development and delivery of customer communications through both print and electronic media will enhance that shareowner value.
Our growth strategy is to leverage our technology-differentiated solutions to support our customers' information management business process and customer relationship needs.
We're committed to driving future growth by continuing to increase scale efficiencies and competitiveness as well as expanding our product and service offerings.
We will of course continue to explore synergistic acquisitions strategic partnerships and additional investments in areas that enhance the company's existing technology offerings or to create new solutions that meet customer needs.
As I will discuss shortly in more detail we recently completed the acquisition of ALPS Holdings Inc.
which broadens the range of products and services DST offers to the investment management and brokerage industries including a suite of asset servicing and asset gathering solutions.
Through this ongoing review our board concurred with management's plan as reviewed by advisers which identified strategic opportunities to further strengthen our business adjust our capital structure and create value for the shareowners.
These opportunities include among others the monetization of certain of our non-operating assets and investments.
The consideration of that monetization would be subject to market timing pricing and the potential of tax-efficient transactions.
Enhancing the outlook and performance of certain business units through additional investments and strategic partnerships returning capital to the shareowners through additional share repurchases those will be undertaken where excess cash from operations and monetization proceeds are not needed to pay down debt or to service other obligations or where we believe that we can generate a greater return by growing the business organically through acquisitions or forming strategic partnerships.
And also we intend to improve the transparency and frequency of communications with our shareowners and analysts including providing additional information regarding our unconsolidated affiliates and passive investments such as our real estate assets.
As you probably have seen from our third quarter earnings release this effort to provide that transparency is already underway.
Separately DST has had a long and we believe successful history of returning capital to shareowners through significant share repurchases and the recent initiation of a semiannual cash dividend that was instituted in 2010.
Since January 1 2005 we repurchased approximately 46.2 million shares and that represents approximately 51% of the shares at the beginning of that period that were outstanding and that was for a total consideration of approximately $2.7 billion.
During the third quarter of 2011 and through the end of October we repurchased 2.5 million shares and that was for an aggregate consideration of $112.9 million.
In order to continue this strategy our board has authorized an additional share repurchase program of 2 million shares of common stock.
The new share repurchase program will become effective on January 1 2012 and run through December 31 2013.
We are pleased with the progress made so far on our comprehensive review and we hope to achieve additional value for our shareowners through these ongoing and focused efforts.
Growth will continue to be related and driven by a disciplined acquisition strategy to expand our presence in the markets we currently served as well as markets that are adjacent to the current ones.
And to that end I'd like to spend a little time discussing the strategic acquisitions we have completed recently.
On October 31 DST closed the previously announced acquisition of ALPS Holdings Inc.
It's a provider of a comprehensive suite of asset servicing and asset gathering solutions open-end mutual funds closed-end funds exchange traded funds and alternative investment funds.
ALPS offers a wide range of services including fund and tax administration accounting transfer agency compliance and administration services.
ALPS has a range of distribution capabilities which include medallion distribution services active marketing and wholesaling services and a fully bundled closed-end fund IPO launch platform.
ALPS brings a comprehensive solution set that allows DST to service market segments that we have previously been unable to address.
These segments of the market typically demand a solution that's bundled with the attendant distribution support.
ALPS has approximately 340 employees and recorded revenue of $65.4 million for the 9 months ended September 30 of this year.
ALPS has demonstrated a strong track record of growth.
For the years 2003 through 2010 revenue grew at a compounding annual rate of 35%.
Revenue growth for the year ended September 30 was a little over 24% 24.4%.
We expect the addition of ALPS to be accretive to earnings before taking into account anticipated synergies that we think we'll derive from the transaction.
We now estimate that ALPS will contribute approximately $0.22 per share in 2012 on a GAAP basis and again that's prior to synergies and the costs associated with the transaction.
Earlier in the second quarter we had estimated that contribution to be $0.06 per share.
The increase is a result of really an updated estimate of the amortization of ALPS intangible assets.
So excluding the net income effect of non-cash expenses and the anticipated synergies DST projects ALPS will contribute approximately $0.31 per share in 2012.
We continue to estimate that about $5 million of synergies will be realized by year end 2013.
We believe that ALPS and its customers will benefit from DST's market presence and our significant data center and technology infrastructure that we can apply to their operations.
Also during the quarter DST's IOS subsidiary in the U.K.
completed the acquisition of Lateral Group Limited.
That's also a U.K.
company engaged in integrated data-driven multichannel marketing.
Lateral has about 440 employees and had revenues of $80 million for the year ended December 31 2010.
Lateral is comprised of 3 businesses.
Data Lateral that's a marketing service provider and they specialize in email design and deployment database design and hosting customer analysis and targeting website design building those and hosting them.
Another part of Lateral Howitt it's a print service provider that combines top-quality print and fulfillment with some of the key data services referenced a minute ago and the advanced technologies that support those.
And the third segment is Dialogue Solutions and they provide digital printing and print management as well as software development.
The acquisition of Lateral complements existing IOS business in terms of services offered and business outlook.
This acquisition also allows IOS to extend and development its services and product offerings by further integrating communications through print data and e-solutions and providing additional products such as data insight and online marketing to the IOS client base.
On July 1 we completed the acquisition of the assets of IntelliSource Healthcare Solutions.
That company's principal CareConnect provides automated care management systems.
The addition of the IntelliSource suite of solutions broadens our Health Solutions product offering for integrated care management.
The integration of IntelliSource into our health claims platforms will be completed in the fourth quarter of this year.
And initial clients actually already been converted to the enhanced platform and several client commitments are expected by year end.
So we have invested approximately $360 million in acquisitions to date in this year.
We anticipate that those acquisitions will add approximately $270 million of annualized operating revenue for the full year of 2012.
Amortization expense recorded in the third quarter of 2011 from intangible assets that's primarily customer relationship assets and proprietary software that were acquired in connection with the 2011 businesses was approximately $1 million.
That would have fallen $400 000 into the Financial Services segment and $600 000 in Output.
Amortization expense for the fourth quarter of 2011 from these acquisitions including ALPS which closed on October 31 is projected to be $2.2 million and that will break down as $1.4 million in Financial Services and $800 000 in Output Solutions.
So for 2012 anticipated amortization expense from these 2011 acquisitions is projected to be $11 million.
And again that will break down $8 million in Financial Services and $3 million in Output Solutions.
So overall we remain focused on making acquisitions that complement our businesses that allow us to expand our services and that ultimately enhance our results.
Before moving to the specific results for the quarter I'd like to point out a few additional items.
After the share repurchases that we previously discussed the outstanding shares now are at 44.1 million.
There were approximately 50 000 shares left under the existing authorization.
So that once the other authorization goes into effect  January 1 it will be a total of 2 050 000.
On September 20 we declared a $0.35 per share cash dividend that's payable on November 4.
We repurchased 3.5 million shares of our Series C debentures for $3.8 million during the quarter.
So at the end of September we had approximately 86.5 million of those Series C debentures that remained outstanding.
Total debt increased by $110.6 million to $1.3 billion at September 30.
That's principally from the funding of the business acquisitions and the share repurchase that we mentioned for the quarter and through the end of October.
Looking at the third quarter financial results and just as a reminder all of our comments on these results refer to our non-GAAP results.
There's a reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures that's in the earnings release itself.
So on an adjusted non-GAAP basis diluted earnings per share was $0.90 and that's a decrease of $0.13 or 12.6% from the third quarter last year.
The consolidated operating revenues for the quarter were $433.1 million.
That's an increase of $29.8 million or 7.4% from 2010.
That reflects the inclusion of Lateral Group and Newkirk revenues and also an additional month of the dsicmm Group revenues that was acquired by IOS.
Consolidated operating income decreased by $5.7 million or 8.3% from the third quarter last year.
That's really a result of lower Financial Services segment operating revenues higher costs associated with business investment for solutions and new product areas brokerage insurance and retirement industry verticals.
It also reflects increased losses incurred by IOS and the recognition of charges related to the vacating of a leased office facility.
All of those items were somewhat offset by higher contributions from Output Solutions North American operations and a decrease in deferred compensation cost.
That's the item we have every quarter and it is again -- it's offset in the other income area.
The equity in earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates decreased by $4.6 million.
That was lower earnings at BFDS IFDS Ireland and IFDS U.K.
The other income category showed a decrease of approximately $8 million.
That's from unrealized depreciation on investments designated as trading.
Again that's offset in income from operations.
DST's third quarter 2011 tax rate included an income tax benefit that resulted from the ability to utilize foreign tax credits against the U.S.
tax obligation.
Financial Services operating revenues decreased by $4.3 million and that was 1.5% less than the third quarter of '10 reflects lower mutual fund shareowner processing and DST HealthCare revenues.
Again there was some offset by higher software license and professional services at DST Global Solutions.
When we look at software license revenues overall that increased by $3.3 million or 34.5% compared to the third quarter of last year.
There were increased license revenues recorded for AWD 10 our newest release of AWD that has a significant new functionality and also increases in the licenses of the investment management software.
Financial Services cost and expenses increased by $1.2 million over the third quarter of last year.
When we look at the business development and startup costs for the insurance brokerage and retirement businesses they amounted to $8.5 million or $0.12 per share.
The deferred compensation costs declined by $9.1 million from market declines.
Related foreign exchange rates they resulted in an increase of $3.2 million.
So as a result of all of that Financial Services income from operations decreased by $4.9 million or 7.4%.
Currently we expect the fourth quarter 2011 business development and startup expenses associated with those business lines brokerage insurance and retirement to be about $0.13 per diluted share.
We also anticipate that we'll recognize a $0.60 to $0.65 per diluted share of the expenses related with the development of these businesses in 2012.
During the quarter turning to mutual funds.
Registered accounts there declined by $8.4 million.
Getting underneath that there were conversions to subaccounting platforms which totals $6.5 million $300 000 of those were migrated to our subaccounting platform.
We had conversions to non-DST registered account platforms of $1.1 million.
That was from the full-service client loss that we had reported I believe last quarter.
And during the period we also saw an organic decline in effect just a reduction of shareowners in the client base of 800 000 registered accounts.
So right now we expect the total subaccounting conversions in 2011 will approximate 14 million accounts that's pretty much in the range that we estimated last quarter.
Preliminary indications suggest that an estimate of 8 million to 10 million accounts will move to subaccounting in 2012.
And currently we anticipate that approximately 40% of those accounts the 2012 ones will migrate to DST's subaccounting platform.
So the net effect of subaccounting activities resulted in a decrease of 2.2 million accounts for the quarter but that decrease consisted of a previously disclosed subaccounting loss.
That was a client that's an affiliate of Bank of New York Mellon that converted 2.7 million subaccounts to Bank of New York Mellon's in-house platform.
And within that mix there was somewhat of an offset from the 300 000 registered accounts moving to our platform that I mentioned earlier 100 000 from non-DST platforms and within the subaccounting an organic growth of 100 000.
So in effect the $2.7 million netting out $500 000 is what gets you to the $2.2 million.
We experienced an organic increase in defined contribution participants of 100 000 for the quarter.
Total participants serviced stood at 4.4 million at September 30 and that's an increase of 500 000 participants from the same period last year.
For the full year of 2011 DST Retirement Services projects approximately $45 million in operating revenues and that's based on the current defined contribution participant levels.
As we've discussed before we have a committed backlog there of clients that were in the process of converting.
Right now Retirement Solutions estimates it will have approximately $65 million of annual operating revenues from that existing client base by -- in some portion of 2013.
So as the Retirement business develops we believe the margins in that business will attain the same overall levels that the business has been able -- the overall business has been able to generate historically.
At BFDS there were a reduced level of accounts serviced.
Again they have the issues of subaccounting also and it was really the subaccounting conversions that accounted for the bulk of the decline in earnings.
Also the average balances for the period the float increased to about $1.1 billion and that was from $919 million last year.
However even though the balances increased the average interest rate earned declined from 19 basis points last year to 9 basis points this year.
And that results in a pretax reduction of BFDS' earnings because at those levels the balance earnings really can't offset the transaction costs of maintaining the accounts.
BFDS during the recent period executed a workforce reduction of approximately 8%.
Turning to IFDS.
The overall equity and earnings there declined from the prior year quarter by $1.2 million.
IFDS U.K.
accounts actually increased by 400 000 during the quarter.
But the decline in earnings came from higher costs related to client conversions including a onetime payment for a software license extension that allowed us to -- in effect facilitate a client conversion.
The combination of those things decreased our share of IFDS' U.K.
earnings by approximately $700 000 in the quarter that's pretty much all a onetime event.
Also IFDS U.K.
is in the process of converting 2 new clients with approximately 800 000 accounts.
Those conversions should be fully completed by year end 2012.
In Canada IFDS Canada account service declined during the quarter by 500 000.
That was due to a client loss of approximately 240 000 accounts and then an organic decrease in accounts of about -- the difference 260 000.
However IFDS Canada has received a client commitment for the conversion of approximately 1.7 million accounts.
That conversion will occur in the second half of 2012.
That will be an increase of about 17% on the current account base.
Prior to that conversion however IFDS Canada will be incurring the conversion costs to get that book of business across it's a large book.
And those costs will continue to be a drag on earnings for a while.
In IFDS Ireland we continue to invest in the adaptation of our Percana Life Insurance software to support its introduction into the U.K.
marketplace.
We also have a number of costs associated with the conversion of full-service processing client in that market.
Turning to Output Solutions.
As noted in the press release we're now going to provide information in 2 pieces both the North American and the United Kingdom operating business.
There are some difference in the nature of those businesses.
The North American business is substantially a provider of print and electronic delivery service for client bills and statements that are related to transaction events.
With the acquisition of Newkirk and Capital Fulfillment Group however it expands the North American business to include participant enrollment and compliance communications related to retirement accounts insurance mutual funds and healthcare.
And in retirement and healthcare we see good cross-selling opportunities with the other 2 business lines of DSTs there.
United Kingdom business is oriented to data-driven marketing communications a management of direct mail campaigns.
And over there the transaction-based printing really represents less than 20% of revenues.
So on the financials for North America the operating revenues increased by $13.8 million in the quarter that reflects the Newkirk acquisition and higher fulfillment revenues.
And North American income from operations increased by $3.9 million to $8.9 million.
That's an operating margin of 8.2% driven by the increased revenues also improvements in operating efficiencies and lower compensation cost.
The North American EBITDA also showed an increase an increase of $2.5 million to $17.5 million.
In the United Kingdom the operating revenues went up by $19.3 million that's as a result of the Lateral acquisition that was completed in August and on a comparative basis an additional month of revenue from dsicmm.
However the U.K.
reported an operating loss of $7 million for the quarter.
That reflected lower than expected revenues.
And also we continue to incur costs associated with the consolidation of facilities and the reductions in workforce to achieve synergies of the initial merger and then the subsequent acquisition of Lateral.
So the ongoing cost reduction from the consolidation of facilities and redistributing work to the remaining locations will have some upfront onetime real estate disposition and staff reduction costs and those will continue to be incurred probably through the second and possibly the third quarter 2012.
We have successfully integrated the management teams of Lateral and IOS and are in the process of fully integrating the operations.
Included in the press release and we talk about it for a moment or two here.
We have tried to present more effectively a view of the real estate holdings.
As we say we're working to improve the transparency regarding the unconsolidated affiliates and pass of investments which of course includes our real estate assets.
So in the press release we provided expanded disclosure of the U.S.
real estate operations.
DST.
We own real estate directly and indirectly through joint ventures.
Our real estate strategy over time has been to leverage our need for facilities and to create value through long-term ownership both controlling our own operating costs and creating residual value.
We've used joint ventures to own or acquire facilities in and around the downtown Kansas City area some of which are occupied by DST or affiliates.
Our U.S.
real estate holdings from a GAAP standpoint were breakeven for the quarter but they generated $4.2 million of operating EBITDA.
We have provided and intend to continue to provide information on the basis of funds from operations.
Funds from operations or FFO is one of the measures we use to evaluate our real estate holdings and we think that's consistent with the way many real estate operations are valued.
So if you look at it from a funds from operations standpoint the U.S.
real estate holdings had a total of $4.6 million of funds from operation and that translates to $0.10 per share of FFO for the quarter.
We also think it's relevant to provide debt information relative to the real estate.
Substantially all the joint venture debt is non-recourse to the property owner.
When you look at the consolidated real estate debt plus our pro rata share of the joint venture debt it stood at $311.9 million at September 30 2011.
And our pro rata share on the same basis of debt is expected to decline by approximately $80 million over the next 5 years.
So we would intend to provide sort of a rolling update on the debt position on a rolling 5-year basis.
The income tax rate for the quarter came in at 29.4% that compared to 35.2% in the third quarter of '10.
And we currently estimate our tax rate for the remainder of the year to be approximately 33.6%.
The estimated tax rate for the full years declined due to changes in the mix of earnings and from increased utilization of foreign tax credits.
So at this point we would like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Dave Koning with Baird.
Research Division</strong> And I guess first just on the registered account decline.
Thanks for the disclosure on this year and next year.
It looked like this quarter you mentioned 6.5 million reductions from switches out that I don't think were highlighted before and usually we get a heads-up I think a quarter or 2 beforehand when something comes.
So this seem to have developed a lot quicker.
Maybe you can just describe maybe what happened with that group of 6.5 million accounts that went away this quarter? Yes let me let Steve take that.
I mean basically Dave we're still in the ballpark of the total number.
We just didn't get accelerated in those quarters but I'll let Steve comment on that.
Sure Dave.
We -- as Tom said we kind of -- we've been trying to give you a forward-looking rolling 12-month number.
And the reason is these conversions can move quarter-to-quarter pretty easily right? This quarter was a big quarter.
I would tell you that 60% of the movement in the quarter was in 2 events that were forecasted and known to major conversions and the rest was kind of across the customer base.
So I wouldn't tell you that there's any cyclicality to the subaccounting conversions.
Our model currently for next year shows that first quarter we'll have a more significant number of subaccounts moving in the other 3 quarters.
But again that could certainly move.
So you should -- there's nothing more to it than happens to be the quarter when these customers decided to move the accounts.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just couple of others one is you said $0.60 to $0.65 for 2012 investments.
How much is in this year? I guess I'm wondering what the swing factor is if there's $0.30 in this year it really only means $0.30 incremental next year.
So maybe...
Well we had $0.12 this quarter and we anticipate $0.13 for Q4 so that's $0.25.
That -- some of that investment really didn't start to occur until late first quarter second.
So we'll see if we've got an exact -- close to an exact number Dave.
But I would say if you take $0.25 for the second half of the year there is probably 6 to 10 for the first half.
So you can round it out to maybe somewhere around the $0.30 to $0.35 range.
Next year it will be $0.65.
Now that's the level of investment.
Hopefully some of that investment will accelerate the opportunity for revenue but that's not a net number that's just the absolute cost of bringing these products to a marketplace level or in the case of retirement solutions.
The investment in filling out specific client requirements for the 2 that I mentioned.
Because once we complete the conversion of those 2 that will get us to that $65 million run rate of revenue.
That will also get us I think to about 6.5 million accounts which we think will actually put us as the #2 provider in that segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just I guess one last one.
Affiliates I think you mentioned $4.3 million of affiliate income in one place.
But then I think on the income statement if I read it right I think it was $1.7 million.
And I'm just wondering why the income statement wasn't $4.3 million? Dave this is Ken Hager.
The biggest difference is that the -- on the GAAP income statement we included the full cost of the severance action taken at BFDS which we excluded from a non-GAAP perspective.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is from the line of David Togut with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Tom and Ken 2 questions.
First Tom could you break down the $0.60 to $0.65 of investment for 2012 in terms of the different areas where you intend to spend that money? And can you give us a sense of how it might roll out throughout the year? Well we won't break it down by segment because some of those segments aren't disclosed as an ongoing unit.
But there is $0.13 in fourth quarter this year my sense is that that will step up $0.15 $0.16 and probably stay roughly in that area of $0.16 $0.165 for the rest of the year.
The complement of development resources and conversion resources because most of it David as you can appreciate is staffing so that's pretty much in place.
So once we hit the run rate in Q1 it will be pretty much be leveled for the quarters throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> And do you have a view as to what that spending will be in 2013? Well I mean if you look at the way these businesses have developed historically as you get the businesses up and running what was sort of business development and expenses related with that tend to convert over to expense in supporting the ongoing business operation.
So I'm not sure that the absolute dollars have declined but they should be matched against increased revenue levels.
And the nature of them David will go from sort of a startup business development to ongoing operating support which kind of gets into the reference  I made earlier that once like for instance say Retirement Solution gets up to some critical mass you'll still have those people but they'll be doing different things but it should allow us to attain sort of the overall corporate margins we've enjoyed in those types of businesses historically.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And just a quick final question Tom.
The pace of acquisitions has accelerated sharply over the last 3 to 6 months.
Have you made any changes to your systems and processes to make sure these acquired companies are integrated smoothly into DST? Well first the pace has picked up.
But I think you can expect it to slow.
We have added we believe critical components to the various business lines.
So -- and by the way ALPS as we mentioned earlier it's going to be an individual segment.
It will benefit from some synergies but we don't see it as much of an integration situation.
It's just a broader business opportunity.
So we anticipate that there will be little risk so to speak of integration.
When we get into the for instance healthcare and so forth -- and I guess what your question is is we made any changes.
I think what we've done is in these acquisitions we pretty much mapped out how they complement the existing businesses.
As I mentioned IntelliSource in healthcare that's pretty much really just a software integration with existing business lines.
And then in getting the sales force up to speed on selling that product we take that one as I indicated is completed and we're getting pretty good customer response to that.
The business of insurance really is a start from scratch business and it's a separate business line.
So for lack of a better term David it's actually sort of pre-integrated so to speak because we're kind of building it in through DST's infrastructure and what we've added in effect product and industry experts there.
Probably the more -- the one that's going to have the most complication for integration is brokerage where we have 2 or 3 acquisitions there.
And in addition to the acquisitions we're integrating by vertical the sale of other related products like AWD and so forth.
So I think in the case of brokerage one of the things we felt we have done there in the acquisition of Phoenix in particular we've got a strong management team that's going to be responsible for the aggregation of that business.
So I think we feel pretty good that the approach to bringing those businesses together under DST.
And as I indicated we're going to run them as various verticals so a part of it is integration but a lot of it is just building the independent expertise in that area.
Steve do you want to comment on that at all? No I think that's accurate Tom.
Each of them are somewhat different.
Certain of the verticals we're taking existing DST technology and building out around them.
And then as you mentioned in both the brokerage and the insurance space we're actually building fairly significant new core capabilities.
[Operator Instructions] Our final question is from the line of Peter Heckmann with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to know -- it doesn't appear that you're taking questions from the buy side.
Is that -- it doesn't seem that that's consistent with your goal to increase shareholder outreach.
I don't know that we necessarily precluded that.
I mean I'm not managing the input to the call Pete so I really can't tell you who's calling in and who we're taking or not taking.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I know that on the last call I talked to several buy siders that tried to buzz in were not allowed to ask questions.
In terms of the goals that you put out in terms of strategic initiatives they're kind of soft goals no real timetable do you think -- can you give us a little bit of an idea what the timetable might be and have you identified any of the investments in the portfolio that you might not by name but seek to monetize? Are there some of those investments that they have a relatively higher cost basis that would not incur a realized gain that would be easier to monetize? And then last question is that the additional authorization for the share repurchase does not start until January why is that? Let me answer those in reverse.
One because of where we are in the acquisitions and the funding of those.
And having funded ALPS on Monday I think our current debt balance is up around $1.5 billion from the $1.3 billion that we mentioned here at the end of the quarter.
So really Pete at that point we want to see that debt balance come down to some degree before we consider additional share repurchases.
Let me transition into the other.
I mean historically we have run the balance sheet to provide hopefully some leverage on the cost of borrowed funds so that the shareowners can benefit from a debt component of the balance sheet.
But we've always felt that that balance sheet number has been relatively conservative because a substantial portion of that debt is offset by the valuation of the marketable securities.
And then underneath the debt which say right now probably $1.5 billion about 20% oh somewhere around 25% of that debt is fixed term fixed rate.
The rest of that debt is floating rate.
And so we've always looked at the mix and order of magnitude in the balance sheet relative to the marketable securities.
And also we look through to the balances at BFDS we mentioned they were at $1.1 billion.
We also have balances at Argus.
So if you take half of the BFDS and you take $300 million of Argus there's about $800 million of balances there that while they aren't earning right now we look at them as a natural hedge to the floating rate component of the debt on our balance sheet.
So as we look at altering the capital structure by sale and securities or anything else we want to take into account how those relative positions on the balance sheet will evolve.
So I don't think we will do any one thing independent.
If we find some high cost securities we sell we're going to adjust the balance sheet so the net debt position of the company doesn't alter materially.
Having said that given the current markets we haven't seen attractive opportunities to sell.
Some portion of the securities also we look at both as to the absolute valuation of the company and what we think it's worth.
And then like I said I was about to say in a couple of cases particularly what's the exchange rate for the Australian dollar.
We haven't set a particular timetable.
One of the things that we have been able to accomplish historically is use of some of these security positions in connection with expanding the business by working with partners to do exchanges and so forth.
We also would like to find if possible tax efficient monetization strategies.
So in many cases I would tell you that our time frames really haven't changed much.
We've continued to look for those opportunities.
I think because of the current situation what we are a little more focused on is there an ability to surface any of those possibilities sooner rather than later.
Having said that we have not put together any specific timetables.
So we continue to look at our real estate as an aggregate by the way we don't see it as a piece by piece business.
We will continue to look at opportunities for structures private read or things like that that might enhance that value.
But what we will do is on an ongoing basis we will to the extent anything has come to a head so to speak we will keep the shareowners and the analysts informed of where we are.
But we didn't think that -- not that we really didn't think it's just not advisable to set particularly in volatile markets we have right now deadlines or specific time frames.
The time frame that we will work towards is the one that accommodates the realization of the greatest value for any monetizations or corporate restructurings.
And we have time for one more question and that question is from the line of Dave Koning with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I actually have a couple of quick ones.
But the first one is the overall Output segment.
You've talked for a while about 10% margin.
Now that you've broken it out it looks like the North America margin is getting pretty close to that.
But the U.K.
is in loss mode.
How soon can the U.K.
get to a 10% margin? Is that even a realistic target for that group? I think it's realistic.
As part of this consolidation of facilities and we'll be eliminating a handful of actual physical facilities over there and real estate in the U.K.
is expensive to disengage from.
I won't get into all the particulars over there.
But it's not even necessarily an issue of length of lease Dave.
If we have a lease that's maturing next year we can certainly walk away from the lease.
But they have something over there called reinstatement which basically means you got to put it back the way it was when you got it which by the way means even if you put a lot of improvements in theoretically you have to take them out.
But because of their generous natures the landlords will usually let you just write them a check as opposed to go all through that trouble.
So there is some cost of exit to that.
And as we will be moving facilities some geographic distance we will be disengaging with a number of employees and disengagement in the U.K.
as in many European economies is an expensive undertaking.
Right now we think that between now and end of first quarter we'll incur GBP 3 million to GBP 5 million $4.8 million to $8 million of cost to get those facilities consolidated.
But we think the occurrence of that cost will also offset on a run rate basis about GBP 10 million to GBP 12 million of ongoing cost.
Last quarter we had -- in the U.K.
was particularly soft.
July and August are usually soft over there.
But this may sound as a minor event but they had sort of a 10-day missing in action where a lot of mail and mail promotions didn't occur due to the royal wedding which happened to be sandwiched between 2 bank holidays.
So literally business was closed about 10 days during the quarter.
With the introduction of Lateral we actually have acquired a very efficient operating facility in Nottingham and so that has caused us to -- we were in the process of consolidating others.
We changed the consolidating plan.
That will probably cost us part of this -- it's probably another GBP 1 million or GBP 2 million because we changed direction.
And although that's inconvenient in the short term we think it's very positive long term.
I think that business should clearly be normalized like late second quarter early third quarter next year and what we intend to report again both segments.
So you can see the progress in the U.S.
and one reason to describe the U.K it's fashion it is a different business.
I mean there we manage mail campaigns we manage customer relationships we actually have some higher value opportunity there.
And once we get it integrated we think it will have attractive margins and I would think 10% is achievable.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And just looking at the swing factor I mean if instead of the $7 million loss that was due on the 10% margin this quarter I mean that's something like $0.15 or $0.18 or something like that of incremental EPS that would be there.
I mean...
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay good.
And the other one was deferred comp.
Even in the past I think given it a couple of different ways one is a year-over-year impact of deferred comp swing on the Financial Services EBIT.
The other was I think the absolute dollar.
Was that $9.1 million was that the absolute dollar impact this quarter? That was a -- that number I think was year-to-year.
I mean basically what that is is we require as part of our incentive plans for instance that the participants defer a significant component of it.
That's sort of a retention thing and it's also sort of making sure that we have the opportunity to recapture if there is adverse direction in the company.
But once it's deferred the individual can elect to have it deferred into an investment vehicle usually a mutual fund.
So part of the challenge is when you have a quarter like the September quarter where you had a lot of market -- we saw some of our clients have fund declines of 15% 20% that's what happens.
But the real situation is it shows up at 2 different places in the landscape of the P&amp;L.
Because it's an investment it shows up as a gain or loss there.
But then the offset is the increase or decrease and the liability to the planned participants.
It will be a lot simpler if we could just net it but accounting conventions don't let us to do that.
So I mean we've had it in there.
As long as I can remember we end up explaining something about it every quarter.
But it's basically when it's all said and done it's just a net.
It just happens to show up in 2 different lines.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I guess the I reason I ask this because it looks like when you normalize it the last several quarters now have been in a pretty tight margin range at 23 to 26 on a normalized x deferred comp basis this quarter looks kind of 19% so a big reduction.
And I know a lot of that is because of investments and maybe even core just the core decline in registered accounts.
But you would expect that over time to get back into that 20s I would imagine? Yes.
That concludes our question-and-answer period.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
McDonnell for closing remarks.
Well again just thank you for joining in the call.
We hope that the -- some of the expanded information is useful.
And we'll be happy to have any comments or input as to what might be more helpful on a going-forward basis.
So once again thank you for joining us today.
Thank you all for joining us today and for your continued interest in DST.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Tom McDonnell.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us this morning.
Here with me in Kansas City are Steve Hooley DST's President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ken Hager our Chief Financial Officer.
Before beginning I'd like to remind everyone that in the course of our conference call today we will make forward-looking statements regarding DST or some of its businesses.
Such statements are based on our views as of today and actual results could differ materially from forecasted results.
There could be a number of factors affecting future results including those risk factors set forth in our latest annual and quarterly reports which we filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that we will make today.
Since the participants on the call have had access to our detailed earnings release we'll focus our comments on those areas that we think are particularly significant.
As a reminder all of our comments on our financial results refer to our non-GAAP results.
The reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures are included in the fourth quarter earnings release itself.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.05 per share that's a decrease of $0.02 or 1.9% from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter were $457.3 million that's an increase of $32.4 million or 7.6% from 2010.
That of course reflects the inclusion of ALPS the Lateral Group and Newkirk.
Overall consolidated operating income decreased by $4.2 million or 5.7% from the fourth quarter of 2010.
DST's employee healthcare and retirement benefit costs were $7.6 million lower in the fourth quarter of '11 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
$4.2 million of that decrease was included in the Financial Services segment and $3.4 million was included in the Output Solutions segment.
This decrease in healthcare cost resulted from the absence of some large healthcare claims last year and favorable healthcare claim experience for 2011.
When we look at the past history and the current plan designs we now think this is a trend of favorable experience that you can extrapolate into 2012 but that is the comparative data for '10 and '11.
Financial Services operating income declined from lower mutual fund shareowner processing.
We had higher cost associated with business investments those solutions in the brokerage insurance and retirement verticals.
However these were partly offset by a lower employee healthcare and retirement benefit cost of the $4.2 million in this segment that I mentioned a moment ago.
In addition ALPS was accretive to our fourth quarter results by approximately $0.02 per diluted share.
Output Solutions operating income increased from strong performance at Output Solutions North America.
And that however was somewhat offset by losses at IOS.
The Financial Services operating revenues overall increased by $3.4 million or 1.2% over the fourth quarter of 2010.
$14.6 million of the increase was the inclusion from October 31 of ALPS.
While DST Global Solutions had increased revenues we had lower mutual funds shareowner account fees and lower revenue at DST healthcare.
Software licenses were $2.4 million and that's 17% less than the fourth quarter of 2010.
The Financial Services cost and expenses increased by $12.6 million over the fourth quarter of 2010.
Again that includes the operating cost of ALPS and other businesses acquired during 2011.
We also continue to incur business development and start-up costs for insurance brokerage and retirement.
Deferred comp costs increased by $1 400 000 that represented the investment appreciation.
There is further offsetting costs where lower employee healthcare and retirement benefits of the $4.2 million that we referred to before.
Depreciation and amortization increased by $1 million.
And we had increased intangible asset amortization of $2.4 million and that was from the 2011 acquisitions.
This amount however was partially offset by certain DST Health Solutions' intangible assets that became fully amortized.
Overall then as a result Financial Services income from operations decreased by $10.2 million or 13.9%.
Turning to the business development and start-up costs for insurance brokerage and retirement.
They were $7.4 million during the quarter or an equivalent of $0.10 per share.
We expect in 2012 business development and start-up expenses for those business lines brokerage insurance and retirement to be between $0.60 and $0.65 of after-tax expense per diluted share.
Expenses are currently in place so that's kind of a run rate.
And we anticipate they'll approximate $0.15 to $0.16 per quarter throughout the year of 2012.
During the quarter our registered mutual fund accounts declined by $1 700 000.
Conversions to non-DST subaccounting platforms totaled $2.2 million.
We experienced an organic decline of 100 000 registered accounts and conversions to non-DST platforms of 100 000.
However these decreases were offset by new conversions of 700 000 registered accounts bringing you back to the net of $1.7 million.
For 2011 total subaccounting conversions were $14.4 million accounts.
Currently we project that 8 million to 10 million registered accounts will convert to subaccounting for 2012.
And we estimate approximately 30% of those accounts will convert to DST's subaccounting platform.
Both the 2011 actual and 2012 projections are consistent with the range we discussed last quarter.
As to the 30% of the accounts converting to our platform as we've discussed before a significant portion of the subaccounting conversion coming up will be to -- from affiliates of Bank of New York Mellon that are included in the portion that will not convert to our platform.
So the total accounts being serviced were 99.7 million at December 31 of 2011.
That's from the third quarter decrease of 1.5 million accounts.
Defined contribution participants increased by 200 000 in the quarter and that's an increase overall of 100 000 participants from last year.
During the fourth quarter of 2011 Argus Health Systems received some new client commitments representing approximately $14 million annual pharmacy claims.
The conversion activities around these clients are expected to be completed in the first quarter of '12.
While BFDS recorded increased earnings for the quarter their average balances for the period decreased to $1 billion from $1.2 billion last year.
And the interest rates that BFDS earned on those balances decreased from 19 basis points to 7.
And that had even with the increased earnings that had a negative impact on their quarter results.
The overall equity and earnings of IFDS declined from the prior year quarter by $4.3 million.
IFDS U.K.'s accounts actually increased by 100 000 during the quarter but they experienced an earnings decline that's from higher costs related to some new business development and client conversion activity.
Also on a comparative basis in 2010 there was a $2.1 million benefit to DST's earnings derived from ISDS -- IFDS pardon me and that was the reversal of an income tax valuation allowance at an unconsolidated affiliate of IFDS U.K.'s.
IFDS U.K.
is in the process of converting 2 new clients with approximately 800 000 accounts.
These conversions should be complete by the end of this year by December 31.
But new business development and client conversion costs will have a negative impact on the IFDS earnings throughout 2012.
Turning to IFDS Canada they came into 2012 with 10.1 million accounts.
And they're in the process of a conversion throughout 2012 of approximately 1.7 million accounts.
We anticipate that conversion will pretty much be contained into the fourth quarter of '12 and completed by year end.
Going to output now for a few minutes.
Output's North American operating revenues were up by $9 million in the quarter.
That reflects the Newkirk acquisition and new client revenues.
North American income from operations increased by $8.2 million to a level of $11.1 million.
And on that basis it would be an operating margin of 10.3%.
However I want to point out that margin benefited from the lower employee healthcare and retirement benefit costs mentioned earlier of $3.4 million.
If you exclude those costs favorable cost trends the operating margin was 7.1%.
Also the inclusion of Newkirk benefited the quarter.
Their business has a seasonal peak in the fourth quarter when retirement plan activity is high.
Newkirk's business is more seasonal actually than the rest of Output North America's business as a majority of its profits usually have occurred in the fourth quarter.
On an EBITDA basis the North American EBITDA increased by $6.4 million to $19.3 million.
Our U.K.
subsidiary Output U.K.'s subsidiary IOS had an operating revenue of $18.4 million.
That was principally from the acquisition of the Lateral Group which was completed in August of '11.
IOS reported an operating loss of $5.2 million for the quarter.
That reflected some lower-than-expected sales in revenue but also facility consolidation costs.
We've successfully integrated the management teams of Lateral and IOS and we're developing plans to fully integrate the operations.
In January of '12 we acquired the remaining shares of IOS from the minority making IOS a wholly-owned subsidiary.
We believe that as a wholly owned subsidiary it will facilitate our achieving our goals for the company.
Ongoing cost reductions from the consolidation of facilities and redistributing work to the remaining locations will have some upfront real estate disposition and staff reductions costs.
And we think those will continue through the second and most likely into the third quarter of 2012.
When we started last year we provided expanded disclosure of our U.S.
real estate holdings.
We own real estate directly and indirectly through unconsolidated affiliates.
Our real estate approach has been to leverage our need for facilities to create value through long-term ownership both controlling our operating costs and creating long-term residual value.
We've used joint ventures to own or acquire facilities in and around downtown Kansas City.
Some of which are occupied by DST and its affiliates.
So when we look at the real estate aspect of the business the real estate holdings on a consolidated basis had $0.08 of earnings per diluted share for the quarter and generated about $4.9 million of operating EBITDA.
There were real estate related tax credits of $1.2 million in the quarter and that came from the installation of solar panels.
And that contributed to the increase in EPS.
From a different perspective if you look for funds from operations or FFO they were $8.1 million or $0.18 a share for the quarter.
When you look at our consolidated -- DST's consolidated real estate debt plus our prorated share of joint venture debt it stood at $305.6 million at year-end.
Our prorated share of that real estate debt will amortize by approximately $80 million over the next 5 years.
And by the way substantially all the joint venture debt is nonrecourse.
The income tax rate for the quarter was 36.6% that compared to 35.7% in the fourth quarter of '10.
The fourth quarter of '11 rate reflects increased tax expense from the repatriation of certain international earnings.
That rate was partly offset then by real estate related tax credits from the installation of the solar panels I mentioned.
Right now we're estimating our income tax rate for 2012 will be approximately 35%.
During the quarter we repurchased 130 000 shares of our common stock for $5.9 million or approximately $45.45 a share.
We have approximately 2 million shares still authorized for repurchase.
So reflecting that the average diluted shares outstanding were $44.7 million during the quarter.
That was a decrease of 1.7 million shares or 3.7% from the third quarter of '11 and a decrease of 2 million shares or 4.3% from the fourth quarter of '10.
Our total debt on the balance sheet increased by $105.6 million compared to the third quarter.
It was primarily financing associated with the ALPS acquisition.
We also put out a press release in addition to the quarterly results.
And in that release we announced that our Board of Directors has nominated 2 new directors: Lowell Bryan who's a founder of the consulting firm LL Bryan Advisory and who's a senior adviser to McKinsey &amp; Company; and Samuel Liss who's a Principal at WhiteGate Partners.
They will be on the slate for election to the board's 2015 class of directors and that will occur at the company's 2012 Annual Meeting in May.
The third person on that slate will be Travis Reed who's a current DST Director and he will serve also in the class of 2015.
Lowell and Sam were selected by the board after a comprehensive search that the Governance and Nominating Committee had undertaken and had been conducting for the last several months.
We think these will be very solid additions to the board.
Also in connection with that 2 of our directors Tom McCullough and Bill Nelson will not be standing for reelection.
They've been solid long-term board members and we appreciate the service theyve provided to DST but the slate is as I just discussed.
Following the board's engagement of outside advisers and so forth the company on an ongoing basis continues to look at options for various of our non-core assets either operating or investment.
That's a process that continues.
There is no specific item that I would refer to at this time that is in any imminent stage of completion.
But as I said it is an ongoing process.
So with that I would now like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from David Koning of Avondale Partners (sic) [Robert W.
Baird].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So my first question what looks like one of the bigger headwinds that the last couple of quarters and you talked about a little bit is the international Output business IOS I'm just wondering kind of the timing.
I think you said Q2 and Q3 there is some cost actions continuing through then.
Is this something that can be breakeven or better by kind of Q2 or maybe Q3 when these things get done? I mean is that sort of the thought or maybe even there's an expectation of some mid-single digit margin? Maybe you can just talk through that a little bit on both timing and profitability.
Well just to give you a thumbnail history there Dave.
We had the Output business in the U.K.
which was DST Output which was primarily a transaction mailer in Bristol.
And the next move we made in '10 was to combine it with a company called dsicmm and renamed it Innovative Output Solutions.
dsicmm had some transaction mail but an awful lot of campaign management mail and did an awful lot of overall financial printing a lot with our customer base from the IFDS client base.
And in putting those 2 together we left a minority ownership out there and we're progressing to consolidation of facilities because dsicmm had grown by acquisition had a stressed balance sheet and a disproportionate amount of actual operating facilities.
In the summer of '11 the opportunity to acquire Lateral which is a very sophisticated campaign management and data analytics company in connection with the providing of customer communications print and otherwise came along.
And it looked like an awfully good fit so we pursued that.
With that acquisition we changed our strategy a bit.
As we announced we went ahead and acquired the rest of the minority.
But in the acquisition of Lateral we picked up a plant in Nottingham England which is an excellent plant.
And with the addition of that plant to our operating inventory we were able to make some decisions to close a couple other plants.
So in effect to get to the end result which we think will be better in the aggregate we will have a couple more quarters of consolidation expense that we would not have anticipated prior to the Lateral acquisition.
I think it's reasonable to assume that third quarter-ish we should be in sort of a breakeven mode.
The costs associated with the plant closings in the U.K.
will be the disposition of real estate and a reduction of force.
In England as in many European countries reductions in force are a little more complex and somewhat more costly.
We've mapped those out as of a couple of weeks ago.
We think we're on a good timetable to have that stuff occur Q1 and Q2.
And hopefully we'll see some improvement in the overall economy which does drive some of the revenues there.
But certainly the consolidation costs should pretty much be absorbed in Q1 and Q2.
And then we I think should be able to move it to profitability subsequent to that.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Great.
That was a great review.
And then the second question I had you talked about healthcare costs and the retirement benefit costs being down about $7.6 million year-over-year and how that sort of swing factor is unsustainable longer term.
But how much of that was just that Q4 2010 was too high? And how much of it was that Q4 2011 was too low? Meaning maybe part of that is sustainable and part of its not.
Well it was about 50-50.
And these like many organizations we self-insure health with the catastrophic coverage at the top end.
So it's a continual process of revising accruals and estimates.
And oftentimes on that basis you don't see big claims until some period after they've actually been incurred by the employee.
And that was one of the things that hit us last year.
So I think on a conservative side we'd say we can't extrapolate it but I think you're correct that there was a disproportionate amount recorded last year.
Like most companies we're working aggressively to control those costs introducing plans like health savings accounts and so forth.
So hopefully we can contain them.
And maybe there will be some positive there.
But it's pretty hard to predict what -- where healthcare costs are going not only from the absolute amounts but by the utilization.
It's probably a little more explanation than you wanted Dave but I think your assessment that Q4 '10 was particularly high which did surprise us at the time is relevant and so we could see some favorability in '12.
But right now we think we're kind of on course for kind of steady state.
Your next question comes from Jim Kissane of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Tom any updated thoughts on the shift to subaccounting? I mean do you still think that the worst is behind you? I mean it doesn't sound like you received any notices recently of accounts moving off.
Well now we think it's going be the $8 million to $10 million this year Jim.
Steve I'll let him make a couple of comments.
But as we indicated we think of that $8 million to $10 million that will cycle about 30% over.
But as I mentioned earlier with the Bank of New York Mellon merger and you got the subaccounts associated with their affiliates of the other 70% the bulk of them really come out of there.
And we think the $8 million to $10 million is consistent with where we've been and that's where we see it and then we see a decline.
And the $8 million to $10 million we think it will pretty much be in the first 6 months.
Probably 75% of the migration will occur Q1 or Q2.
Now having said that we're not in control of the timing and sometimes it slips.
We don't think it will accelerate.
But right now our guess would be -- we should be seeing a moderated trend substantially by third and fourth quarter of '12 if our assumptions are correct.
Steve you want to add to that?  Steve doesn't want to add to that.
I think that's pretty much all we know.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the tax advance accounts are now over 50% of total registered do you still think that they are less susceptible to subaccounting? We think theyre less susceptible but we're always watching that.
The only movement we've seen was the 1529 [ph] plan of significance.
And that we think was pretty well isolated.
So one they're smaller dollar accounts which makes them far less interesting.
And also there is the complexity of the trustee and a number of other features there that really require some additional software and scrutiny to monitor the size of contributions monitor the age of required distributions and stuff like that.
And so we think it's far less likely.
Research Division</strong> And outlook for healthcare when you take into account the lower volumes that you're seeing but also the addition of the new business I think like 14 million new claims being added at Argus will that business grow this year or is it going to decline? I think it'll grow but it's a little bit of A Tale of Two Cities.
In healthcare we have Argus which as you're fully familiar with the prescription claims.
And I feel pretty good about that business.
That's where the 14 million claims are coming on and they have some other new client activity that hopefully will materialize.
On the health claim side is where there's more static.
The activity there is much more static.
That's far more influenced by concerns about where the overall healthcare environment is going.
So a lot of the customers that are there the Blues and so forth are reluctant to make any investments.
And the investments that they're willing make like this IntelliSource acquisition that we made that's proved pretty good.
We've got that integrated with the systems and had pretty good pick up on it.
I would see that side of the business kind of sideways until we have a little more clarity out there.
But having said that it is profitable it generates cash.
But probably combined the healthcare business will improve in 2012 but it will be driven substantially by the prescription claims.
And of course on the Argus side that runs -- that software runs on our data center.
That's all a processing business very much like a mutual fund business in that it's a per script type revenue unit.
On the healthcare side a substantial portion of the business is BPO and ASP processing but there's also quite a bit of installed licenses out there.
So the Argus business will have much more positive elasticity as claims come on.
So the net of it is I think combined to be positive.
But it will be substantially driven by the prescription side of the business.
Research Division</strong> And the margins there will be up? And can you maybe give us a sense of the ballpark where the margins are today and where they could go on healthcare? I don't think we actually break those out.
But I think you can assume that it is a business but particularly on the processing side that has a significant amount of fixed costs and that increases in revenue for reasonably extended periods do not attract that much incremental cost.
The next question comes from David Togut of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Tom you indicated North American Output posted a 7% EBIT margin in 4Q if you strip out the reduction in healthcare costs.
Do you still expect this business to get to 10% EBIT margin? And if so when? Well I think 2012 may well tell the tale on that.
We do expect to be able to get to a double-digit margin.
And we stripped out the whole healthcare cost.
But if it were normalized I'm not sure you'd reduce all of it.
David going back to comment earlier because of the way accounting works for those costs and the accruals it can be lumpy by quarter.
So I think we have a shot at it in '12.
Research Division</strong> What additional steps do you need to take to reach double digit? Increased revenue and we do have I think some positive activity going on there.
And we'll be able to I think announce end of the first quarter some new client additions.
So over the past several years we've absorbed a lot of down the loss of the one large telecom client that involved that recognition.
And a couple of years ago the termination fee.
But also particularly in the telecom area the big customers have rationalized their bills so they no longer produce detailed billings.
We lost a lot of images over that period.
And we pretty much replaced all that volume.
So I think we're in a position now where the cost structure and the business are pretty well positioned to absorb increased revenues at some enhanced margins.
And I think over the next couple quarters I think you should see some positive announcements in those areas.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update on retirement services? You've indicated this is a major area for investment.
How big do you expect this business to be over the next couple years? And how much will be competitive wins versus otherwise? Let me let Steve Hooley comment on that.
In that business I think Steve would agree with me most of it is going to be competitive wins in one way or another.
There's a huge in place set of systems out there supporting this primarily from one major competitor.
Our strategy is somewhat different in that we're a processor versus installing software.
So we think we're well positioned competitively.
There will be of course some new plans.
Those will primarily be sold by our mutual fund customers to small companies and others starting up.
But most of it is going be moving from an in-house or a competitive system.
Steve would you agree with that? Yes I would.
A couple of -- we've talked about 2 big conversions that we have currently in play that will run out through '12 and '13 and what the financial impact of those is.
We've got a very strong pipeline in this business and expect that some time during the first half of the year we'll be able to announce a couple of new wins.
I think the other thing that's moderating the growth of this business a little bit is the general economy and the fact that unemployment is relatively high.
So we haven't seen the organic growth that we would expect to see as unemployment moderates in the U.S.
and the companies that we're servicing on behalf of our customers begin to add staff.
So we think this business is -- it's got growth that's kind of in the plan and again a strong pipeline.
And we think some potential upside as the economy turns around.
Research Division</strong> Are the 2 new wins for the first half of '12 coming from in-house systems or from a competitor? From a competitor.
And when we say new wins so we have the 2 that are in the process of conversion and have been for some period of time.
And we anticipate incremental business on that.
But most of it is from a competitive set of systems.
Research Division</strong> A final question on capital allocation.
Tom you indicated you have about 2 million shares left in the repurchase.
I don't believe you've announced a dividend increase for 2012.
Can you give us your thoughts on share repurchase versus dividends and acquisitions? Well I think with the acquisitions we've made ALPS in particular was very attractive to us because it expanded the business into some areas that we didn't have a lot of footprint David as you're aware in the ETF hedge funds and so forth.
And also had a significant block of mutual fund processing and then distribution around SPDRs.
The rest of the acquisitions particularly in the Output side were sort of fill-ins and product enhancements.
So I don't think we anticipate any acquisition activity in any of the business lines.
So it will be up to the board to take a look at where they see free cash flow and what their view towards share repurchases versus other returns of capital to shareholders is.
I can't really comment on that prior to a board meeting that will be towards the end of the quarter.
But as I indicated we continue to review all the other assets of the organization both operating and non-operating in connection with trying to focus on is there a more appropriate way to create some value.
But that's something that -- as to that position that should be clarified by next quarter.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Peter Heckmann from Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> In the mutual fund industry as you see more accounts moving to subaccounting do you see those customers that are currently servicing accounts in-house? Do you see them looking to outsource more given a relatively high level of fixed costs on falling volumes? And potentially is that an opportunity for BFDS? Yes.
Peter it's Steve Hooley.
It is.
And we are seeing -- everybody's evaluating their cost structure obviously as their number of direct accounts that they're servicing declines.
They've got to look at the fixed cost.
And we've had a number of instances where people have outsourced a portion of the servicing that they're doing.
And I would tell you that on a broader basis they're looking at whether they should move up the scale of outsourcing.
So it absolutely creates an opportunity for Boston Financial.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And along those same veins within subaccounting opportunity for DST are you seeing more clients interested in a full-service subaccounting relationship? And what could change the dynamics where your main competitor there has significantly a larger base of accounts than you currently have.
What dynamics would it take for you to win some share on the subaccounting side? Well I think so let me -- the first part of your question is do we see more customers looking to go with a full-service subaccounting solution.
I'd say the answer is we haven't seen a big trend in that direction.
Customers that today currently outsource the subaccounting are tending to stay there.
And those that are doing it in-house again we haven't seen a big trend towards outsourcing more.
Yes.
I think the biggest kind of opportunity for us is the technology platform that we've got wrapped with the service group.
Part of the reason we did the Phoenix acquisition earlier in the year was to bring on more brokerage expertise and to build out a wider solution set for the brokerage industry.
And so the subaccounting solution is one piece of that.
The Subserveo transaction where we acquired the compliance capability again as part of building a much broader solution set to bring to the broker/dealer community.
So we feel like we're pretty well positioned in building out that solution set and are having discussions with a lot of broker/dealers right now about that.
I think Pete that's a place where the battles join now between us and our competitor.
And we think we have a solid competitive strategy.
So I think over the next several quarters I'd like to think we will prevail in a number of instances.
So it's -- the real answer to that is we be more aggressive on the competitive side see if we move market share back our way.
LLC Research Division</strong> That would be great.
I will stay tuned on that.
Last question on ALPS.
If I understand the model correctly ALPS has a number of proprietary products investment products that may have been developed in conjunction with let's say another investment adviser or another distribution partner.
Talk about the opportunity around creating new products whether they be new ETFs new closed-end funds and do you foresee that being a growing portion of -- a continuing growing portion to ALPS? We do see that.
They have been very successful in bringing a -- I hate to call it life support system a kind of a total environment for say a successful money manager who is not able to access funds through say a mutual fund vehicle.
They can put everything together for them about the investment management that's very positive.
I think that their participation in distribution of the SPDR-type products and we see some obviously -- I shouldn't say obviously but we see incremental product flow there.
Now we're pretty comfortable that they have a solid growth opportunity in front of them Pete.
Your next question comes from Greg Smith of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just wondered if you could comment on what your expectation is for organic growth in registered accounts in kind of 2012 and over the next couple years? We don't break out specifically the organic.
Let me take it from a high level.
I expect the organic growth in 2011 was in the low-single digits I think it was just over 1%.
I think organic growth for 2012 will be close to that.
So not enough to overcome the subaccounting conversions that take place between the subaccounting -- between the organic growth and new business we expect to moderate some of that.
I don't think we're going to see organic growth rates like we had 5 or 6 years ago for quite some time.
Steve mentioned earlier some stronger employment would help.
It's kind of a double-edged sword on accounts coming in and retirement plans because one there's not necessarily an employment growth but also people who have been laid off tend to close accounts.
So that's at least one trend.
Also until the economy improves people tend to be very conservative and concerned.
In some cases that puts them in banks versus funds.
So I would certainly agree with Steve.
I mean I think there will be organic growth returning.
But this year if it's a couple of percent we'd be happy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just wanted to verify something.
As far as the sort of new business development expenses the $0.60 to $0.65 you're calling out for this year.
Now you said that's already in the run rate so there's no sort of incremental expenses that need to be undertaken during the year is that a fair assessment? Well no that's not exactly correct.
Roughly half of it is in the run rate.
So we had expense this year.
The expense that we're talking about next year the $0.60 to $0.65 will be on a run rate basis roughly double what we had this year.
Let's not confuse this year and next.
I mean 2011 we think it was maybe $0.30 $0.35 a share.
This year it will be $0.60 $0.65.
When I said it was in the run rate that's when we're saying it will be about $0.15 a quarter.
It's already in place now.
So it will occur pretty much levelly $0.15 $0.16 a quarter throughout the year.
But on an incremental basis it's probably compared to 2011 about $0.30 $0.35.
Is that...
Are we making it reasonably clear? The overall will be $0.65 but that compares to what would've been like $0.30 $0.35 in '11.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I just wanted to make sure we're not going to all of a sudden see some spike in any given quarter but it sounds like we're not.
When I said run rate coming into the year we've got the staffing and all that stuff that are working on these systems and the development and the implementation of the insurance product in the U.S.
So you can pretty much expect it will be that $0.15 $0.16 a quarter.
But on a comparative basis it's a $0.30 $0.35 delta versus $0.65.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
That's clear.
And then just lastly I know it's early but with all the new acquisitions can you just discuss sort of how they're currently tracking versus expectations? I know some are a little more mature businesses than others but are things generally tracking as pleased or some ahead of plan? Behind the plan? Well ALPS is tracking well and we'd say right on target.
IntelliSource which was a small acquisition in monetary terms but it is integrated with all of our healthcare solutions.
And it allows -- and can integrate by the way with other people's healthcare systems.
It's been pretty well received.
So we see some traction there.
I'd say it's going well and should produce some positive results.
But again it was a relatively small acquisition.
On the Output side in the U.S.
Newkirk is well integrated.
That's turning out positively.
We mentioned they're a little more seasonal based on their historic business but we have seen very good cross-selling opportunities with them both in healthcare and retirement.
So we think that that may alter some of that seasonality.
Although their first quarter should be one of their lowest.
So I would say the U.S.
acquisition is positive.
We didnt refer to it at great depth but in North America when we were talking about the North American margins we do have a significant increase in the Canadian business and we've doubled the plant size up there.
So both in '11 and for part of '12 there'll be some start-up expenses of that plant expansion and we'll be bringing on some equipment.
And as you know we use an accelerated depreciation for that.
So I would say North America is strong.
I talked about IOS at some length earlier.
The Phoenix and Subserveo weve built that into our whole brokerage solutions which is the previous acquisitions some time back at TASS which is full-service subaccounting subaccounting and our Vision and Vision Pro products and what we've tried to put together there Greg is a more integrated set of services out to the desktop but particularly the financial planner community.
So those -- and Phoenix wasn't as much a product company as a talent company that was in the business of consolidating with brokerage firms about products operations and so forth and had a very strong team.
So I think we've been successful in integrating that.
When that one's going to -- in the brokerage side as to the incremental revenues from sort of the compliance and new products it's going to take a little time to get some traction.
But we're comfortable that they've been successfully integrated.
It's now really a question of successful execution.
Does that help address that? Ladies and gentlemen we have time for one more question.
Our final question comes from the line of David Koning of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick ones.
First IFDS I know youve talked in the past about growing the new account both for the base in both of the U.K.
and Canada.
It looks like the account base will be up 10% to 15%.
And I know there's some conversion costs and stuff but is that profitably should that go up in 2012? Certainly towards year-end 2012.
In the mutual fund business generally the clients do not reimburse much of the conversion expense.
So throughout Q1 2 and 3 in the case of Canada and probably the same 3 quarters in the U.K.
we will have front-end expenses before we get the clients on.
And also in the U.K.
we have introduced the insurance processing solution of Percana into the U.K.
marketplace and actually have 2 clients coming on there already.
One will be converted completely by the end of Q1 I believe.
And the other will be coming on in September.
So in addition to the investment sort of the conversion expense we've had the implementation investment for getting the insurance system up and running in the U.K.
And so you'll see some impact of that in the U.K.'s financials in Q1 and Q2.
Research Division</strong> And then just the other 2 short ones.
You called out business process and document management revenues being about flat year-over-year.
I think it's the first time you kind of mentioned that revenue stream specifically.
I could be wrong but what portion of Financial Services is that like 10% or something? I'll pull that number right off it's a very solid business.
I'd say a little below that.
Research Division</strong> And then the last question...
A little below maybe 7% 8%.
Research Division</strong> 7% 8%.
Okay.
And then just the last question.
Free cash flow in 2011 do you have just the full year number in cash flow from ops less CapEx? Ken what do we show in CapEx? Yes.
CapEx for the full year -- well cash flow from operating activities would be -- we estimated around $404 million.
And then CapEx was $83 million.
And that's just using the GAAP cash flow schedule.
Thank you.
That concludes our question-and-answer period.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
McDonnell for closing remarks.
Well again we want to thank you all for taking the time to join us this morning.
And we look forward to talking at the end of the second quarter.
Thanks again.
First quarter sorry.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems Incorporated Q1 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Tom McDonnell.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I'm joined here in Kansas City by Steve Hooley President COO; and Ken Hager our CFO.
But before beginning I'd like to remind everyone that in the course of our conference call today we will make forward-looking statements regarding DST or some of its businesses.
Such statements are based on our views of today and actual results could differ materially from forecasted results.
Could be a number of factors affecting future results including those risk factors set forth in our latest annual and quarterly reports which we file with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that we make.
Since participants on the call have access to our detailed earnings release we'll focus our comments on those items that we think are most significant.
As a reminder all of our comments on our financial results refer to our non-GAAP results.
A reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures have been provided in the first quarter earnings release.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.05.
That compared to $1.08 for the first quarter of 2011.
Consolidated operating revenues came in at $475.9 million.
That was an increase of $49.9 million or 11.7% from the 2011 period.
And that reflects the inclusion of ALPS the Lateral Group and Newkirk.
This is the first full quarter of inclusion of ALPS revenues.
Consolidated operating income decreased by $8.1 million and that was an 11.1% decline from the first quarter of 2011.
We continue to make increased investments in new business development for brokerage retirement and insurance verticals.
And we also had business expansion costs incurred in the quarter for DST Output Canada where they're expanding the plant.
And those are the primary reasons for the decline from last year.
Financial Services operating revenues increased by $30.3 million.
That was a 10.8% increase over the first quarter of 2011.
$23.8 million of that increase was the inclusion of ALPS.
We also recorded revenue increases for brokerage retirement healthcare and the AWD product.
Mutual fund shareowner account fees declined.
That was a result of lower registered accounts being serviced.
However software license revenues were $2.6 million or 29.5% more than the first quarter of 2011 primarily from higher AWD license fees.
The Financial Services cost and expenses increased by $34.1 million or 17% over the first quarter of 2011.
That reflects the inclusion of operating cost of ALPS and the other businesses acquired during '11.
And also business development and start-up costs for insurance brokerage and retirement those businesses the start-up costs actually increased by $6 million to a total of $11.6 million for the quarter.
Depreciation and amortization was up by $3.4 million.
$2.3 million of that was attributable to the 2011 acquisitions.
Financial Services income from operations decreased by $7.2 million or 11.5%.
We had $3.1 million registered accounts that converted to sub-accounting.
$1.7 million of those converted to DST's sub-accounting system and the balance went to other platforms.
We did have 300 000 accounts of organic growth and 500 000 new account conversions so that the net reduction in registered accounts was 2.3 million.
The sub-accounts processed actually increased by 2.1 million for the quarter.
That included the conversion of DST's registered accounts of 1.7 million and a combination of organic growth and conversions of 400 000 accounts to our platform and that comes to the increase of 2.1 million for the quarter.
In line with our previous projections we expect that 8 million to 10 million registered accounts will convert to sub-accounting for 2012.
We estimate approximately 30% of those accounts will convert to DST's sub-accounting platform.
We think a majority of the accounts will probably convert in the first half of 2012 although we can't determine the exact timing of conversions.
Turning to defined contribution participants.
They increased by 100 000 in the quarter.
When you look at defined contribution plans they need to maintain the accounts of participants who terminate their employment during a given year until the second quarter of the following year to support tax and other reporting requirements.
We actually see annually a reduction of the terminated participants processed during the second quarter.
We have new client conversions however scheduled at 1.3 million participants for late 2012 and '13.
And of that total we anticipate the conversion of 600 000 participants in the fourth quarter of this year and the remainder throughout 2013.
During the first quarter of '12 the pharmacy claims processed by Argus Health Systems increased 8.2% to 99.2 million claims.
That was pretty much driven by new client conversions.
Health Solutions revenues they increased principally from software-related revenues.
Our equity in BFDS earnings was unchanged from the 2011 quarter.
Their average balances for the period declined slightly to $1.2 billion from $1.3 billion last year.
The interest rates that BFDS earned on those balances decreased from 16 basis points to 10 basis points and as we continue to reiterate that negatively impacts BFDS results.
DST's equity and earnings of IFDS International Financial declined from the prior-year quarter by $4.3 million.
However IFDS U.K.'s accounts actually increased by 100 000 during the quarter but the earnings decline results from higher costs related to a lot of new business development and client conversion activity.
IFDS U.K.
is establishing its Percana software that's for insurance and pension recordkeeping in the U.K.
and it's actually in the process of converting to insurance/pension clients.
IFDS U.K.
is also in the early phases of converting 2 new shareowner processing clients with approximately 800 000 accounts.
These conversions should be complete by December 31 of this year.
So new business development and client conversion cost will continue to have a negative impact on earnings for the remainder of this year and the positive side should materialize in 2013.
IFDS Canada came into '12 with 10.1 million accounts and it's received a client commitment which will increase its accounts by 10% to 15%.
That's a conversion that should occur in the fourth quarter.
But in preparation for that IFDS Canada has and will continue to incur upfront cost to convert this client and that'll be a drag on their earnings for '12 also.
Turning to Output.
The North American operating revenues increased by $6.2 million in the quarter.
That reflects the Newkirk acquisition and new client revenues.
The North American income from operations declined by $800 000 to $9.6 million and that resulted in an operating margin of 8.4%.
In the quarter we had a cost for the Canadian plant expansion we're about doubling the capacity up there new client conversion costs.
And Newkirk's first quarter is one of their seasonally lowest and all of those contributed to the decline from last year.
Newkirk's business is more seasonal than the rest of Output North America given their customer set.
And so a significant portion of its profits have historically been earned in the fourth quarter.
EBITDA for North America declined by $1.3 million to $16.9 million.
Output U.K.
their subsidiary IOS had operating revenue increase of $12.9 million and that principally reflected the acquisition of the Lateral Group although we did experience some lower volumes from several existing clients.
IOS reported an operating loss of $1 million for the quarter.
It reflects somewhat lower-than-expected sales but also facility consolidation costs involved with both real estate and redundancies.
In January of '12 this -- we acquired the remaining shares of IOS so that it's now a wholly owned subsidiary.
That will assist us in achieving what our goals are for IOS facilitate ongoing cost reduction from the consolidation of facilities and the redistribution of work to the remaining locations.
But those of course will have upfront onetime real estate disposition and staff reduction costs and we anticipate that will be with us over the next 3 quarters.
Our real estate holdings reporting those on 2 bases here.
We had $0.03 per earnings per diluted share of the quarter.
That's $0.02 higher than '11.
And that real estate generated $5.3 million of operating EBITDA and that's an increase of $500 000 over the prior-year quarter.
If you look at the funds from operation or FFO they were $5.8 million or $0.13 a share for the quarter.
That's an increase of $1.1 million or $0.03 per share from the same quarter of '11.
On our consolidated real estate debt plus the prorated share of joint ventured debt stood at $301 million at March 31.
And substantially all the joint venture debt is nonrecourse.
The income tax rate for the quarter was 32.5%.
That compared to 35.7% the first quarter of '11.
The lower 2012 rate reflects increased dividend income and higher international earnings which both attract lower rates.
We're currently estimating our income tax for 2012 the income tax rate for 2012 will be approximately 34.5%.
The average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 45.2 million.
That's an increase of 500 000 shares or 1.1% from the fourth quarter of '11.
Those are primarily shares issued under equity compensation plans.
The average diluted shares outstanding decreased 1.8 million shares or 3.8% from the first quarter of last year however.
And that reflects the shares that we repurchased in the second half of '11.
Contributing to the increase we had stock option exercises and take those in combination with stock option expirations.
That resulted in a decline in total equity units which are comprised of unexercised stock options restricted stock and restricted stock units of 1.4 million units so that was a 28% decline from the end of the year.
We also expect to receive a cash dividend of approximately $47 million from a minority investment in a private company in mid-May.
Anticipate that we may also be selling a portion of our investment in a transaction arranged by that company and that if we do that would generate approximately $140 million of pretax proceeds.
However both the dividend and the sale are contingent on the closing of certain recapitalization events by the company.
If they do occur our intention would be to pay down debt with the after-tax proceeds.
So with that operator we'd now like to open up the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes of the line of Dave Koning with Baird.
Research Division</strong> My -- I guess my first question is just on the Financial Services segment was quite good in terms of organic growth.
It was about flat year-over-year for the first time in several quarters.
Is the expectation now that that can continue to be around flat or maybe even start to grow again organically? Well I think if -- we still fully expect the 8 million to 10 million registered accounts to move to sub-accounting if you neutralize that so to speak we think there's some underlying growth there.
And of course part of it moves over to the -- from the registered to the sub-accounting.
And we are viewing really the several sources of revenue that come off what's really the underlying mutual fund system.
There's the registered accounts the sub-accounts and the retirement accounts.
Because all of those systems the TA2000 which is the registered mutual fund account system the sub-accounting system and the TRAC which is the retirement system their underlying architecture is all the mutual fund systems.
So it has similar operating characteristics both from the way we can move staff around and use the data center resources.
So I think we're seeing within the accounts side a little bit of growth but obviously offset by the shift.
But with the pickup in revenue in sub-accounting and retirement I think we're looking at more the 3 of those combined should be pretty stable throughout the year and if our projections are correct that this should be -- there should be a significant decline in sub-accounting conversions from registered account next year.
I think you can generally get a sense that that combined revenue at least is stable to -- with some opportunity to move up late in the year and into the first part of next.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess secondly ALPS was a little better than what we expected.
I'm just wondering is there seasonality? I know it started the year at about $24 million.
Is that a pretty stable revenue stream or is Q4 -- I'm sorry is Q1 seasonally strong and then it drops off in Q2? It's not necessarily seasonally stronger but I mean I think obviously a certain portion of their revenue is tied to market movements.
So you had a pretty strong first quarter in the markets overall so we would hope we could at least sustain the gains in the first quarter.
I'm not sure what you'll see for the rest of the year.
You kind of have to look at a portion of their results based on what your expectations for total returns for the market are for the year.
But it's not seasonal per se.
It just happened to be linked to a pretty strong first quarter in the equity markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my final question what portion of that investment are you planning to sell to get the $140 million of pretax? I guess I'm just wondering what might be left -- kind of valuing what might be left? Well we haven't -- because of the agreements we have in our private equity and other things we're not really in a position to disclose that at the moment until everything becomes final.
So really can't help you too much there I apologize for that.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Jim Kissane with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the last question.
Your thoughts maybe on paying down debt versus buying back stock with the proceeds? Well I think we increased debt beyond what our normal targets would've been last year Jim when we acquired ALPS because ALPS was an opportunity that came up in the second half of the year.
So -- and we put some not technically interim but another piece of financing in to accommodate that.
So we'd like to get it back down to sort of pre-ALPS levels.
And this would be one reasonable step to that plus the application of cash flows for the year.
Research Division</strong> And just going back to David's question on ALPS it did seem like it had good performance.
Can you give us a sense of the year-to-year growth in ALPS? I didn't catch it if you did.
Well when you -- we had them for just -- we didn't have them for the full year last year.
Research Division</strong> If you look at their performance in 1Q last year versus its performance this year.
We don't have that number in front of us Jim.
It's -- they've been growing 20-change percent and that's what we -- when we bought it that's some of the projections.
So we anticipate that's probably what'll be realized this year.
So I think you can think in terms of 20% ups.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And then it seemed like the U.K.
Output losses moderated somewhat from the fourth quarter.
And what the outlook for U.K.
Output earnings? Well it's moderated somewhat from the fourth quarter but I will tell you some of the onetime expenses slipped from Q1 into Q2.
Because when we acquired Lateral we picked up what we've now concluded is one of the more attractive production sites in Nottingham.
So that delayed a couple of the closures although our sense is that the disposition of real estate's coming in more positive than we thought so I don't think you can -- I wouldn't suggest that that's an absolute run rate because we will probably have a -- somewhat increased redundancy and plant closings in the second quarter.
But the business with the new Lateral management and so forth has stabilized so I think from an operating standpoint it should continue to prove throughout the year.
But the remaining costs will be incurred I think substantially all this year for plant closings consolidation and staff reduction.
But it's a little hard at this point to predict exactly which quarter.
Research Division</strong> If you look out to 2013 will it still be a drag on Output margins? We would hope not.
I think it should -- now of course we're stating the margins separately here the 8.4% does not include the U.K.
And the drag on that margin it was the plan expansion in Canada.
We picked up a sizable piece of business there and literally had to double the plant so you had some front-end costs associated with that.
But I would hope that by 2013 that IOS U.K.'s at least neutral to positive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a couple of more questions.
Update on your insurance initiative? We haven't heard too much about it in a while and how quickly do you see revenue and earnings developing there? Well the 3 major development businesses we have are retirement.
Retirement of course is an in-place business with a system there.
It's really -- a lot of the investment there is in adapting the system to some very large customers because usually what you find no matter how complete your system large customers have incremental requirements.
And the conversion costs for retirement are high but the business then is very sticky.
So that's really the nature of the cost associated with the retirement.
On the brokerage side it's kind of a 2-phase business.
That's where sub-accounting is embedded.
And the investment really is more in the peripheral products to expand the offerings to brokers and those are a series of smaller investments.
On the insurance side we re-platformed the system for domestic use in the U.S.
And what we're looking at very closely now is one its applicability to the marketplace and the timing of entry there.
So it's a little premature to predict when you would see revenues.
The product I'd say it's been re-platformed just because the Java language is preferable in the U.S.
marketplace.
But also there's some elements of the system like a pay-out system that are in place but there's some other elements that would be necessary to make it applicable to a broader segment of insurance Jim.
So I would think by the end of Q2 we'll have a good answer for you on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question.
The $0.60 to $0.65 of business development and start-up expenses this year where do you see that falling in 2013? Any sense of what kind of drop-off we might expect? No I don't today.
I mean typically what happens particularly -- probably the more difficult one to predict there would be insurance because it's usually in the early stages of bringing a system up you incur similar costs when you're bringing on the first several customers.
You might re-categorize it from development to conversion or whatever.
I think they will moderate.
But certainly these -- the sense is if the run rate of expense continues there would be a incoming amount of revenue to offset it.
But again I think once we have a little bit better handle on insurance that's this point Jim the most difficult one to predict.
But we do think the $0.60 $0.65 for this year is a good number.
I would fully expect it to decline somewhat next year but I wouldn't want to try and give you an order of magnitude today.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
That concludes our question-and-answer period.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
McDonnell for closing remarks.
Well thank you guys for joining us this morning.
And we look forward to talking with you at the end of the second quarter.
Thanks again.
Thank you all for joining us today and for your continued interest in DST.
We look forward to speaking to you next quarter.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems Inc.
Q2 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Tom McDonnell.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining us.
We need to remind everyone that in the course of our conference call today we'll be making forward-looking statements regarding DST and any of its businesses.
Such statements are based on our views as of today and actual results could differ materially from forecasted results.
There could be a number of factors affecting future results including those risk factors set forth in our latest annual and quarterly reports that we filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that we may make.
Since the participants on the call have access to our detailed earnings release we'll focus our comments on those items that we believe to be most significant.
As a reminder all of our comments on the financial results refer to our non-GAAP results.
A reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures have been provided in the second quarter earnings release.
I'm joined on the call today with -- by Steve Hooley our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ken Hager our CFO.
Before we discuss some of the financial results for the second quarter I thought we'd take a few minutes discussing some of the recent asset monetizations and our announcement to discontinue the development of a processing solution for the U.S.
insurance marketplace.
On assets we realized $158.2 million of cash proceeds from the sale of investments during the quarter.
That included $138.7 million from the sale of a portion of our investment on a privately-held company into a transaction that was arranged by that company.
Since November 2 2011 when we made an announcement of DST's board's commitment regarding the company's business plan and strategy we've realized $250 million of cash and that consists of $202.7 million of cash proceeds from the sale of investments.
And we also received a $47.3 million dividend from that privately-held company and that was received during the second quarter.
The cash referred to above from all of these transactions we primarily used that to reduce debt.
We are continuing to evaluate our investment assets for potential monetization on an ongoing basis and evaluating alternative uses for proceeds received.
Turning to the insurance decision.
When we look at our analysis of the North American market for insurance processing that led us to seize the development of our solution.
It was being built around the Percana software which is licensed from IFDS Ireland which is one of our joint ventures with State Street Corporation.
In connection with looking at that decision a charge of approximately $0.11 per diluted share in the form of an asset impairment charge and severance cost was recorded in the quarter.
Despite this decision the insurance market continues to be a key vertical market for DST.
We have relationships with more than 20 of the top 25 insurance companies in the U.S.
and DST will continue to provide mutual fund processing retirement solutions output operations and also our AWD suite of products to that insurance marketplace.
And this decision was based on North America only.
It does not impact the company's U.K.
and European strategy for insurance processing and that's being implemented through IFDS.
And we'll have a couple comments on some of the recent successes there a little later in the call.
So taking into account a number of things on an adjusted non-GAAP basis diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.77 and that compares to $1.05 for the second quarter of '11 and it also compares to $1.05 for the first quarter of '12.
We generally don't try to provide a comparative analysis from like the previous quarter to current but when we look at all the components that have come into this quarter's results we think it's appropriate to try and take a look at some of the significant variances from the first quarter to kind of give you a map from there to Q2.
So therere a number of factors several of them being nonoperating that resulted in a $0.28 reduction in the non-GAAP earnings for the second quarter as compared to the first.
One of the more significant ones was a change in our estimated full year 2012 income tax rate and that negatively impacted the second quarter's diluted earnings by approximately $0.13 a share.
So the full year 2012 estimated tax rate we've increased it from 34.5% in the first quarter to our estimate now which will be 37% and that recorded in the second quarter.
And that's a function of lower foreign tax credits available to us some increased losses in international subsidiary and in either of those cases there's no current tax benefit.
So in order to get to the 37% a 41.8% tax rate was needed to be recorded in the second quarter to bring the whole year in line with what are our current expectations which again is at 37%.
We also had lower AWD software and hosting revenues during the second quarter.
And compared to the first quarter that reduced EPS by $0.08.
And revenue in the quarter included this is in the first quarter included an unexpected license an AWD license of $2.7 million.
And the reason was sort of unexpected it was really the result of a merger of one of our clients into another organization.
And the terms of the contract required a subsequent payment to gain access to that particular license activity.
And of course when we look at software revenues while they're not significant to our overall they have a very significant impact on earnings in any particular quarter just because of the nature of a software sale or license.
Also in the first quarter we had a dividend received from Computershare.
And in first quarter that amounted to $0.03.
Computershare pays their dividends on a semiannual basis so they occur in basically the first and third quarters.
So when we're looking between the first quarter and the second the absence of that dividend as I said impacted the outcome by $0.03 a share.
We also had some higher employee compensation costs and that reflected the accrual of a higher equity compensation that's in kind of in accordance with the terms and conditions of equity RSU-type grants because of the income that came in from some of the monetization and the transactions with the private company that required that the expenses associated with those equity items be reported and that was about $0.05 a share.
So with that as background let's take a look at the second quarter of '12 and compare it to '11.
So operating revenues came in at $465.5 million.
That's an increase of $41.4 million or 9.8% from '11.
In the Financial Services area operating revenues increased by $26.5 million or 9.4% from the inclusion of ALPS.
That contributed $23.6 million.
And Output Solutions revenues increased by $14.4 million or 10% from the inclusion of Lateral and a full quarter of Newkirk revenues.
Overall consolidated operating income however decreased by $6.4 million or 8.6% from the 2011 quarter.
Expanding a little on Financial Services operating income it went down by $3.8 million or 5.8%.
However if you exclude a $3.9 million reduction in deferred compensation expense you don't really exclude that directly but it is the transaction that we always have where those amounts result in a change in market value.
In this case there is a reduction in market value of the principal participant balances.
So the Financial Services really the operating income declined $7.7 million.
$12 million of expense was recognized in the second quarter of '12 for the continuing investments that we're making in brokerage and retirement and the portion of investments that were made in the insurance area before we reached the conclusion to discontinue it.
And that's a $5.4 million increase over the prior year quarter.
Right now we -- have made some estimates before the investment in these areas so we're now currently anticipating that we'll record $0.26 of expense during the last half of 2012 and thatll be related to development expenses in the retirement and brokerage markets.
That compares to sort of the $0.34 that was incurred in the first half of 2012.
And that $0.34 that we're referring to there excludes the onetime costs associated with the discontinuance of the insurance project.
At Output Solutions operating income was $5.8 million and that was a decline of $3.3 million from the second quarter of '11.
North American operating income declined by $2.6 million.
That is substantially attributable cost for new client conversion activities expanding our Canadian plant and intangible amortization from the Newkirk acquisition as part of North America.
The U.K.
operation named now DST Lateral had a loss from operations which increased by $700 000.
Turning to some of the mutual fund activity.
During the quarter we had 3 million registered mutual fund accounts converted to subaccounting or to non-DST registered platforms.
Kind of getting underneath that 100 000 accounts converted to our subaccounting.
We had organic growth of 400 000 accounts.
So when you look at it in combination it was a net decrease in registered accounts of 2.6 million.
And of that by the way 800 000 of those registered accounts are the ones that we've been referring to for a few quarters now that are -- were conversions to the Bank of New York because their accounts maintained by a affiliate of the Bank of New York.
Subaccounts particularly they increased by 300 000 during the quarter and that was made up of organic growth of 100 000 subaccounts conversion of our registered accounts of 100 000 and then new conversions to our subaccounting from the outside of another 100 000 so that makes up the 300 000.
In line with kind of our previous discussions and projections we still expect that about 8 million to 10 million registered accounts will convert to subaccounting for the year.
We think approximately 30% of those will convert to our subaccounting platform.
And year-to-date through the end of June we've experienced 5.2 million accounts that have converted.
So we think that those projections are pretty reasonable at this point.
When we look at our retirement the defined contribution participants declined by 300 000 in the quarter but we need to take a look at what that is.
The defined contribution plans need to maintain accounts of their participants who terminate employment during the given year really up until like the second quarter of the following year in order to have the information and data there to support tax and other reporting requirements.
So you will actually see as a result of this there's an annual reduction.
I think we referred to it seasonally there will be a reduction in the second quarter of the participants that we process.
In the retirement area though we've got scheduled new client account conversions policy conversions if you like participant conversions of 1.3 million participants.
600 000 of those are scheduled for a conversion in the fourth quarter and the remaining 700 000 throughout 2013.
Turning now to DST Healthcare.
Revenues there increased by $9 million from the prior quarter -- prior year quarter.
And the second quarter of '12 pharmacy claims process at Argus increased 9.9% to $98.7 million.
That was pretty much a function of new client conversions and higher volumes from existing clients.
At the Health Solutions component revenues increased principally from software-related revenues and an increase in the number of covered lives and claim processing in our ASP and BPO areas.
Our equity in Boston Financial Data Services BFDS earnings declined by $800 000 from the second quarter of '11 and that's pretty much the story of reduced revenues caused by decline in the number of registered account service.
Also their balances for the period were $952 million that's less than $1 billion last year.
We had modest increase in the interest rates that BFDS was able to earn on those balances.
It went up from 9 basis points to 16 basis points.
But even at that level the investment-related income is insufficient to cover banking and other transaction fees.
Our earnings DST's earnings in the equity of the IFDS business units declined from the prior year by $3.2 million.
To us that's sort of good news bad news.
Actually the results were lower in the quarter.
But IFDS's U.K.
accounts increased by 100 000 during the quarter.
But they've incurred decline in the earnings.
There's a lot of cost incurred for business development and client conversions.
Also as I mentioned earlier we continued to implement the IFDS Percana software for insurance and pension record-keeping in the U.K.
and that implementation resulted in increased cost.
However we've been able to move an existing client on to that platform and they came off of a third-party platform that we were previously licensing.
So going forward we'll have a benefit on the cost side and have demonstrated capability on that system in the U.K.
And also we're in the process of converting another client onto that that would be a new client.
The combination of those will be about 270 000 policies so it will refer -- I think pretty solidly established as a legitimate alternative in that marketplace.
But also IFDS U.K.
is continuing in the process of converting a couple new unitholder clients.
In the aggregate about 900 000 accounts.
We anticipate 700 000 of those be converted by December 31 of this year and the remainder early next year.
So when you look at those new business and developed client conversion costs it will negatively impact the earnings for the rest of this year but it give us a very solid increased revenue base going into '13.
IFDS Canada was servicing 10.3 million accounts at June 30 this year.
That's a decrease of 100 000 during the quarter.
But as we've previously announced we have a new client commitment of 1.2 million accounts and that conversion is expected to occur in the fourth quarter.
But again we have some upfront costs to convert this client that will continue to impact 2012 results until that conversion is affected.
However when we look at a combined basis put it in a little bit perspective the new clients at IFDS U.K.
and Canada should have increased incremental revenues than in 2013 of approximately $44 million.
Quick note on real estate.
Those holdings generated $5.7 million of operating EBITDA.
It's an increase of $700 000 over the prior year quarter.
Funds from operation or FFO were $5.9 million or $0.13 per share for the quarter.
That was however a slight decrease of $1.2 million or $0.02 per share from 2011.
When we look at consolidated real estate debt which -- and add to that our prorated share of joint venture debt at the end of the June 30 quarter this year it stood at $297.9 million and that reflected $15.6 million of amortization of that debt since the quarter of last year.
By the way all -- substantially all the joint venture debt is nonrecourse to the company.
Our income tax rate as I mentioned earlier for the quarter was 41.8% and that compared to 31 -- 34% in the second quarter of '11.
Again reiterating it we're looking at 37% for the year and it reflects those items that I referred to earlier.
The average diluted shares that we had outstanding were 45.7 million during the quarter.
That's an increase of 500 000 shares or 1.1% from the first quarter of this year.
And that reflects shares issued under equity compensation plans and also reflects accounting required by a higher average stock price.
Average diluted shares outstanding decreased by 1.5 million or 3.2% from last year's second quarter.
That reflects share repurchases that occurred in the last half of last year.
Outstanding stock options -- stock option exercises and expirations resulted in a decline in the outstanding of 100 000 units roughly 2.8% from the end of March this year.
On this call I'm very pleased to announce that at a meeting of our board in last couple of days the company and the board have elected Steve Hooley our President and COO to the Board of Directors.
Obviously that election reflects the board's opinion of Steve as importance to the organization and the opportunity to expand the skill set on the board and move forward in a constructive fashion.
With that we can now open up the call for questions please.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes the line of Jim Kissane with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was on another call so if you touched on this I apologize.
There was a slight decline in tax-advantaged accounts.
What's going on there maybe a little color? And I guess Bank of New York seems to be putting more emphasis on tax-advantaged accounts.
Maybe youll review why you think tax-advantaged accounts are stickier than normal registered accounts and maybe your solution relative to others on a competitive position perspective? Well 2 things and I'll let Steve answer some of the second part of that question on how we view the stickiness in the tax-preferenced accounts being -- primarily the largest block being IRAs but also including some of the others.
We do not see that decline being any specific conversions or any activity to reposition those accounts.
We do continue to see though with the economy people cashing in accounts as they may be unemployed or whatever.
We obviously can't necessarily relate Jim what they did to their specific circumstances.
But the decline there kind of maybe it's two-sided.
There wasn't much kind of supporting activity by new accounts being opened because they have very low unemployment growth and new firm formation.
And then as I said earlier a number of accounts have just within the mix of the business closed.
So in that decline we do not see any specific activity but let Steve address that.
Jim it Steve Hooley.
One of the factors that happened in the quarter is a client of ours that was acquired by Bank of New York had a deconversion of some registered accounts and certain of those registered accounts were tax-advantaged.
So that's the majority of that decline.
It's really a deconversion of an existing client again that was acquired by Bank of New York.
Relative to the stickiness again there's kind of 3 factors that we look at.
One is the involvement of a trustee in those accounts and the fact that they need to be involved in any decision to go ahead and move the accounts.
The second would be the average size of these accounts.
Theyre generally -- they're not typically large and certainly the average size of these accounts is relatively small.
And then the third is the system requirements.
And as we understand it today most of the brokerage systems do not have all of the functionality built out to be able to handle these accounts.
So we continue to believe that these are stickier.
We would also tell you that we have had the one customer who moved the 529 accounts.
Again we don't necessarily view that as a trend.
We view that as a single event but hard to predict the future.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And Tom just on Output it seems to -- it's been a chronic disappointment over a long period of time.
Why should shareholders have faith in your ability to turn around Output over the intermediate term? Well I think we maybe should have broken that out maybe it's in the press release.
In the North American market we had about 8.2% margin.
It was partially negatively impacted by some of the expenses that I mentioned relative to the costs incurred with increased equity.
So it would have moved up a few points from there.
But also the North American cost of the -- doubling the size of the plant in Canada and bringing on a major client.
So I think that if you look at North America in the next couple of quarters you'll see progress to where we think it should be.
In the U.K.
with the business that's now DST Lateral which was the combination of DST's Output business over there plus 2 acquisitions we think that that business is well positioned there.
Their economys been soft which has impacted a little bit on the sales side.
But significant component of it is the continuing consolidation of facilities.
So I think going out of this year we should have most of that expense behind us.
And we'll have to see if the expectations that we have for that business in the U.K.
will materialize.
But I think you will see significant progress in the North American marketplace getting up to the type of target margins we think it can have.
But I think for the next couple of quarters we need to kind of look at the 2 of them separate so you can see the progress moving on one end sort of the comparable progress that's being made getting to where we want to be in the U.K.
Research Division</strong> And where do you see on a consolidated basis -- or when do you see on a consolidated basis Output getting up to over 10%? Well that's kind of hard to predict because we're not sure of the timing in the U.K.
But I think in the next quarter we'll just present them -- add a little more detail separately so you can get a view of that.
Research Division</strong> And Tom can -- Tom or Steve can you provide more insight into the revenue mix of ALPS in terms of like ETFs mutual funds hedge fund asset gathering? What the [indiscernible] revenues? Well I mean obviously they have processing fees and they have some asset-related fees but we really -- well we don't have that data in front of us and we tend not to break that out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just given the insurance breakdown maybe your level of confidence on some of your other business development initiatives in retirement and brokerage maybe just an update status update on when you think the heavy costs will be behind you and they'll be accretive.
Well as we mentioned on the  lets take retirement there's the 1.3 million accounts that will be converting.
So you'll see revenue coming in in late this year and in the next.
The cost base associated with that probably for the foreseeable future stay relatively the same because there are other clients in the pipeline and you have to maintain a level of development activity both for conversions and in some cases analyzing the gaps between the current book and so forth.
So I think say for the next 4 quarters it's going to be more a story of revenues coming on as opposed to specific reductions in cost.
Assuming some normalization of revenue I think the cost picture may change in the second half of next year.
So that would be the retirement side.
On brokerage that's where we include subaccounting and so forth we are building out with the desktop products that we have for the financial planners an enhanced suite of products that's -- a number of those are rolling out.
We still have a couple integration of some of the acquisitions we made.
They're basically integrated but repositioning sort of the sales posture of the Subserveo and the Finix.
So that's kind of the way we see those investments.
And like we said I think it was the $0.26 for the remainder of this year.
Right now I would anticipate that if you were trying to look at a full year next year rate it would be in that $0.50 range maybe somewhat below.
Research Division</strong> Down from a total of -- for this year around $0.60? Just maybe...
Yes.
Right in there.
Right in there yes.
Research Division</strong> But why wouldn't it go down somewhat -- so you're only getting like $0.10 relative to this year? Why wouldn't you to get more if you make...
Well I think it's really a function of the particularly on the insurance side the pipeline that we see coming on.
One of the things in the insurance side or probably retirement side is that it's a -- the platform -- one of the major platforms that we compete with where we think we have a lot of opportunity it's complex conversions.
So it takes quite a bit of conversion staff and support activities to bring that across.
So what I probably didn't say very well earlier is that on the retirement side we kind of see that team that's assembled being in place to support incremental growth beyond the 1.3 million accounts but all that we have signed and with predictable conversions is the 1.3 million.
But like I said we have a follow-on business coming in behind that.
So I think you really need to maintain that there.
If there is a reduction it may be more on the brokerage side and we don't break that out at this point.
Does that help you at all? [Operator Instructions] Your next question comes the line of Dave Koning with Baird.
Research Division</strong> In my first question I guess it's just I think last quarter you mentioned 8 million to 10 million deconversions of the registered accounts this year and that I think you used the word substantial decline next year something like that maybe meaningful decline.
Do you still feel like that based on discussions with your clients? We do.
Let me let Steve amplify on that a little.
Yes.
We're not -- at this point David we're not quite prepared to give a target number for next year.
But I think the word substantial would be fair.
And I think by the third quarter call we will be in a position to give you what our current modeling shows for the number for next year.
But we expect it to be substantially less than this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly you gave a revenue contribution of some of the new clients coming on in IFDS.
I'm wondering if you can maybe give us some thoughts around sort of the swing factor to the affiliate income line.
Meaning this year I think you've got a depressed affiliate income line from IFDS.
Next year probably some of those expenses go away and you get the benefit of those revenues.
So how should we think about that driving profitability I guess into next year? Well both of your comments are accurate.
There'll be some reduced costs relative to the conversion of these clients going into next year.
And then there'll be the $44 million pickup.
I don't want to try and speculate too much on how to get that converted.
One of the things that we also have in the equity and unconsolidated affiliates that we intend to break out a little more on the next quarter there are some items in there that you see at the DST level that you don't see down there.
So I think looking -- getting you some numbers like an EBITDA level at the operating joint ventures that will obviously be non-GAAP.
But they have the Percana business that's owned by the IFDS family has amortization has purchase accounting has other items.
So what we're looking at is a better way to convey what's going on there and we'll be doing some of that in Q3.
So why don't we take a crack if it's -- we'll try to get you a little better sense of what the $44 million dynamics might amount to -- in the kind of flowing through the organizations.
Research Division</strong> And then the tax rate this year obviously has come up a little bit.
Is that kind of the long-term tax rate to? Or as you get more profitable in U.K.
Output and IFDS I guess it would be a separate issue but do you expect that tax rate to come down from the 37%? We do to maybe 150 200 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Makes sense.
And then interest expense I would imagine would be lower in Q3 just given some of the debt paydowns around some of the stuff that you took in.
It was kind of flat sequentially.
So I'm just wondering what the dynamics but -- are just you would expect that to come down next quarter right? Some of the proceeds came in mid-quarter.
So I think that the sense that the direction will be lower is correct.
But I think given one that came in I'm not quite sure the order of magnitude but the trend would be lower interest in Q3.
[Operator Instructions].
Our final question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Ken could you just clarify for me I may be reading this incorrectly but on your schedule for equity in earnings you talked about $3.7 million in equity in earnings of affiliates but on the income statement it looks as $1.4 million.
Am I missing something in that discrepancy? Pete can you -- I'm sorry I'm not quite sure I'm following your question.
Can you help me? LLC Research Division</strong> On your schedule for your equity in earnings of affiliates in the back those 3 items I believe the BFDS $2.3 million; IFDS $0.6 million; other $0.6 million; add up to $3.7 million.
But on the income statement itself U.S.
equity in earnings of affiliates of $1.4 million.
Okay Pete there were some -- a couple of non-GAAP adjustments related to equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates that are laid out in the back.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay I'll have to check that.
So okay that helps.
And then as regards to sale of an interest in undisclosed private company can you talk about what percentage interest that represented and what percentage interest you might continue to hold? We have a nondisclosure with that organization.
So basically we really can't.
Sorry.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then can you talk about the ALPS acquisition? It looked like a good revenue number in the quarter.
Can you talk about both the outlook or winning additional EPS servicing business as well as some of their plans to create additional investment products and kind of how -- I think at one time you had talked about a pretty attractive growth rate in ALPS on a [indiscernible] basis and I wanted to see if you still feel that way.
Well I mean one we're very pleased with the progress of ALPS.
It's continued to have significant growth in operating revenues and strong EBITDA growth.
Going for the rest of the year the key drivers will be their ability to bring out in connection with their distribution partners and investment partners some new fund products.
They have several of those that are basically designed and sort of ready to go from a structure standpoint.
And we think that they map well against the marketplace because there'll be some alignment there with more income-related products.
The real challenge there though Pete is until the market itself is receptive for those products and the distribution organizations are comfortable taking them to their client base you don't have obviously the realization of the product and the revenue.
Those are the key things that we think will drive the rest of the year.
Most likely we could see some activity in that in the third and fourth quarter.
In the closed-end market in particular here.
Thank you.
That concludes our question-and-answer period.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
McDonnell for closing remarks.
Well I think we've covered everything in the call and we've mentioned a couple of things that we'll try to enhance the information for the next quarter and hopefully also the call.
And thank you for joining us.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining DST Systems third quarter 2012 earnings call.
I'm joined today by our Chief Financial Officer Ken Hager and I plan to overview some business highlights for the quarter and Ken will follow with a review of the quarter's financial results.
And before beginning I'd like to remind everyone that in the course of our conference call today we will make forward-looking statements regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on our views as of today and actual results could differ materially from forecasted results.
There could be a number of factors affecting future results including those risk factors set forth in our latest annual and quarterly reports we filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that we may make.
As a reminder all of our comments on financial results refer to our non-GAAP results.
Reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measures have been provided in the third quarter earnings release.
So before getting into the results for the quarter I thought I'd take a moment and outline a few key areas of focus during my first few weeks as CEO.
And as I've said before I believe DST has significant prospects for growth.
We're well positioned in the markets we service today and I'm focused on ensuring that we're in the right businesses and that these businesses will deliver consistent performance growth and profitability.
Further while we continue to take a disciplined approach to our investments and growth we remain committed to maintaining a solid balance sheet that provides us with financial flexibility to execute on opportunities to grow the company.
Yet at the same time we will continue to prudently manage our nonoperating assets to support the balance sheet and enhance shareholder value.
And within each of our operating businesses we're focused on execution including a high-performance culture for our associates to deliver results.
During the recent weeks I've had the opportunity to speak with many of our customers across all of our businesses.
And our clients leveraged DST to grow their businesses and depend upon our commitment to maintaining industry-leading technology solutions.
We're intensely focused on customer satisfaction and the role that we play in our customers' success.
We'll continue to focus on each of these key areas going forward.
So let's move onto the results.
We had a solid quarter from an operating perspective with increased revenues and income from operations in both Financial Services and Output Solutions segments.
In addition we had a number of new significant client wins across multiple operating businesses during the quarter.
And while we're pleased with the results our business continues to be impacted by some key headwinds namely low investor confidence relatively high unemployment and low interest rates.
Our U.S.
Mutual Fund Recordkeeping business saw modest organic declines following 2 quarters of what I term as modest organic gains.
The organic declines occurred in our tax-advantaged account base and were predominantly the result of individuals closing their retirement accounts at our customers.
For the year we expect the organic growth rate to range between negative 1% and positive 1% in this sector.
The accounts converting from our registered account platform to subaccounting platforms continues to occur in line with our estimates.
We continue to anticipate a total loss of 9 million to 10 million accounts during 2012.
On a positive note roughly 30% of those accounts are expected to convert to the DST subaccounting platform.
During our second quarter call we discussed projecting 2013 subaccounting estimates.
Currently we expect between 5 million and 6 million registered accounts to transfer to subaccounts in 2013.
And similar to this year we project approximately 30 of those will convert onto the DST subaccounting platform.
As you know our projections represent a combination of our own internal modeling combined with input from clients where that's available.
Our subaccounting business experienced a decline in accounts due to a previously announced conversion by a client who was acquired by a DST competitor and converted to their in-house system.
I am pleased to report that during the quarter we signed a significant new client contract that will bring 3.9 million subaccounts to our platform from a competitor's platform.
And we expect that conversion to be largely completed by the end of second quarter 2013.
ALPS continues to perform in line with our expectations.
Year-to-date their revenue growth has been 11%.
During the quarter ALPS was a partner in a closed-end fund launch that raised approximately $900 million.
In addition to the upfront payment that goes to cover deal costs and commissions ALPS will also receive an ongoing revenue stream for the servicing of these funds.
And I point this out only because I think it's a one good example of the breadth of products and services that ALPS provides to the markets.
The retirement sector continues to be a key area of focus which should provide growth given the trends of an aging population and self-directed retirement planning.
We continue to invest in our retirement record-keeping platform both to support committed conversions of 1.3 million participants and to add additional functionality to meet market demands.
Our Healthcare business posted solid revenue growth predominantly through organic increases in claims process.
While overall unemployment levels continue to challenge our commercial business the baby boomer phenomenon in the U.S.
should result in increased Medicare Part D claims.
Our North American Output business saw an increase in revenue as well as lower operating costs and lower depreciation expense.
Output signed new clients during the quarter which will transition in the first quarter of 2013 representing approximately 9.4 million packages annually.
We continue to work on a cost structure for our North American operations to drive higher profit margins from that business.
Our Output U.K.
operation improved over the third quarter of 2011.
We continued with facility consolidation and expense rationalization with a goal of achieving profitability in that business during 2013.
Our joint ventures had a reduced level of income from the third quarter of 2011.
IFDS Canada is in the process of converting a previously announced new client with 1.2 million accounts which represents a 10% increase in accounts serviced.
As you all know our conversion costs are incurred in advance of revenue but the conversion should be complete by the end of this year and we should see a pickup from that business unit 2013.
IFDS U.K.
continues to invest in client conversions as well as the implementation of a pension solution for the U.K.
marketplace.
IFDS U.K.
converted 1 million new accounts during the quarter.
We continue working on converting an additional 200 000 accounts and new life and pension clients with 100 000 policies.
These conversions should be completed by the middle of 2013.
And finally we've been active in restructuring our balance sheet.
During the quarter we monetized $128 million of assets resulting in $112 million of after-tax proceeds.
Included in this monetization was the remainder of our holdings in Computershare and cash from these transactions was used to reduce debt to $1.1 billion as of September 30.
We have not repurchased any shares during the quarter and continue to have a 2 million share authorization outstanding.
We continue to review our nonoperating assets in the context of the overall strategy for the business and on an opportunistic basis for monetization or repositioning.
At this point I'd like to go ahead and turn the call over to Ken Hager our CFO to review the financial results for the quarter.
Thanks Steve.
GAAP earnings per share for the quarter were $1.87.
We identified a number of non-GAAP adjustments to our third quarter results which were set forth in our press release.
The 2 largest of these were $0.69 of net after-tax gains on sales of investments and $0.31 of income tax benefit for a resolution of research and development income tax refund claims.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.96 as compared to $0.90 for the third quarter 2011.
DST earnings for the quarter increased $2.5 million or 6% to $44.1 million.
Consolidated operating revenues increased $30.9 million or 7.1% to $464 million and consolidated operating income increased $4.7 million or 7.5% to $67.4 million principally from the addition of ALPS and improvements in Output Solutions.
Excluding the effects of deferred compensation consolidated operating income increased $14.6 million during the quarter to $71.8 million.
Financial Services operating revenues increased $27.6 million or 10% to $304.6 million.
ALPS represented $25.3 million of the increase.
An 11.1% increase in pharmacy claims processed and higher average subaccounts serviced more than offset lower mutual fund revenues which resulted from the decline in registered accounts serviced.
$9.2 million of expense for investments in the brokerage retirement markets was recognized during the quarter.
That was a $700 000 increase over the third quarter of 2011 investments in brokerage retirement and insurance.
Consistent with our prior estimates we anticipate $0.12 of expense will be recognized in the fourth quarter of 2012 for investments in the retirement and brokerage markets.
Higher revenues and contributions from ALPS contributed to a $4.3 million increase in operating income excluding $9.9 million of increased deferred compensation costs.
Output Solutions operating revenues increased $1.5 million over third quarter 2011 from new client volumes in North America.
Operating income increased $8.7 million over 2011.
Lower personnel and depreciation costs contributed to the increase.
Equity in BFDS earnings declined by $600 000 from the 2011 quarter from the effects of subaccounting conversion activity.
Average cash balances for the period also decreased by approximately $130 million from last year.
Average interest rates earned on those balances increased by 6 basis points but are still not sufficient to cover banking and transaction fees.
As Steve mentioned both IFDS U.K.
and Canada have significant new client conversion and new product development activity which are negatively impacting their earnings.
On a combined basis DST's equity and earnings of the IFDS business units declined from 2011 by $4.2 million.
In other income unrealized depreciation recognized on securities held offset the increase in deferred compensation expense previously mentioned.
Other income also includes foreign currency gains but lower dividend income from previous asset sales.
Our 38.3% income tax rate for the quarter was in line with prior estimates.
We currently estimate that our income tax rate for the remainder of 2012 will be approximately 38%.
Turning to the balance sheet and focusing on movements during the quarter consolidated cash increased $9.3 million and consolidated debt declined $112 million as we use proceeds from asset monetizations and cash flow from operations to reduce debt.
Average diluted shares outstanding increased  300 000 shares from the second quarter of 2012 from shares issued under equity compensation plans and a higher average stock price.
Average diluted shares outstanding decreased 400 000 shares from the third quarter of 2011 from share repurchases made in the fourth quarter of 2011.
I'm now going to turn the call back over to Steve.
Great.
Thanks Ken.
So as you've heard today we're delivering results in the face of substantial headwinds.
We're taking action where possible to mitigate the impact of the macroeconomic environment we find ourselves in and the continued challenges facing our businesses.
We're taking deep dives into each of the businesses to identify additional opportunities for growth while prudently managing our cost with a goal of improved performance.
We appreciate your interest in DST and I look forward to sharing with you more detail on our progress during our next quarterly call.
At this point I'll go ahead and turn the call over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from James Kissane of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You had some nice subaccounting wins in the second quarter or the third quarter.
Maybe can you discuss the pipeline? Is DST now in a position to start recouping some market share especially in the subaccounting arena? Yes sure Jim.
I think we did have a good win with a great customer.
We have a broad-based relationship with them across DST.
And I think the real reason for that win was the technology platform that we built along with the fact that they now have their direct mutual fund account base on the same platform as their subaccounts will be.
So we think that that's very positive for the marketplace.
And as you know we don't get into the pipeline really Jim but I would tell you that I think the feedback around the technology platform and that ability to have both their registered and subaccounts on the same platform and the ability for us to do some reporting for the broker/dealers off of that is incredibly valuable.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And Steve maybe a little more color on the loss of the $400 000 tax-advantaged account because I think this is on top of $400 000 in the second quarter.
Are we hitting an inflection point where now the trend is going to be negative for tax-advantaged accounts given baby boomers starting to retire? It's a good question Jim that I don't have the answer to.
And we obviously dug into this one.
What was interesting was the majority of these accounts were literally low balanced IRA-type accounts that were closed during the quarter.
And so the supposition from our side -- again we don't know exactly what's going on in them but the supposition from our side is that you literally have individuals who've decided to tap into those accounts withdraw the balance pay the penalty and use the funds for whatever they might use them for.
So I actually think -- our hope is that we see things going the other direction.
When employment picks up we hope to see a growth in retirement accounts both in the IRA space and in the 401(k) space.
And right now certainly our 401(k) business has faced some pretty significant headwinds relative to the level of unemployment.
But again impossible for us to tell exactly Jim but this was literally when we dug into it low-balance accounts that individuals came in and closed.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And can you Ken give us some sense of your expectations for business development and startup expenses in 2013? It looks like you had I think a $0.12 run rate in the fourth quarter -- $0.12 per quarter run rate in the fourth quarter of this year.
Maybe a sense for '13? Right now Jim we anticipate that the level of expense will be similar to that although probably trending downward as accounts get converted onto the 401(k) platform.
I think part of that will be dependent upon what new business we win.
Because if we do win additional new business then we'll continue to make these investments in conversion costs to bring new clients on.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And Steve I think you started off the call saying you're spending time making sure that you're in the right businesses.
Maybe can you give us some of your big picture thoughts in terms of your philosophy? Maybe how it could compare with Tom's in terms of how to manage DST's portfolio and maybe how to monetize it some sense on timing? Yes.
Jim we kind of look at the company as a set of operating businesses and then a set of nonoperating assets right? And I think consistent with the way Tom ran the company we're going to continue to look at nonoperating assets in the broader context of the overall balance sheet and capital plan for the company.
And obviously included in that is our overall debt levels debt leverage ratios we clearly have a desire to return capital to shareholders and we're always focused on how we're going to grow the company.
So I think from a nonoperating-asset side we've got a very consistent view.
And again I think you saw on the quarter the monetizations.
We felt like that was -- it was a good time to monetize some of those assets.
We're working to take our debt levels -- over the last 2 years we've made a number of acquisitions and we're working to bring our debt levels back down to a leverage ratio that are kind of pre-acquisition.
As it relates to the operating businesses Jim as I said we're kind of doing a deep dive on all of those businesses.
I would tell you everything's on the table and the watchwords are where are we going to get growth and we obviously want to be in businesses that produce reasonable levels of profitability.
And where we're not producing reasonable levels of profitability we're working with the management teams to get there.
Your next question comes from David Togut of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Question for you on margins.
Output Solutions margins moved up nicely in the quarter.
This is a business that's faced a lot of challenges over the last 10 years.
I think the original target a while back was to take this to a 10% EBIT margin.
What do you see going forward for this business? Can you get to 10% next year? Or is this a business that you expect to experience a lot of quarterly volatility in profit? It's a great question David.
I would tell you I'm not prepared to tell you that I think we can get this to double-digit earnings next year.
One of the challenges with the Output business is there's obviously a very high fixed cost component as well as high capital cost to be in that business.
And we've committed to be in it in a way that we deliver what we think are kind of industry-leading technology solutions.
So part of the challenge there is if you have any revenue fluctuation you can drop below that 10% earnings margin pretty easily and it's not so easy to adjust cost in that business.
We're working with the management team there.
And when we can get revenue in an area that I feel like it's solid enough that even if we have a bit of a decline quarter-to-quarter and we have our costs aligned such that we can remain above those double-digit earnings then I'll make that commitment.
We're clearly pleased with what happened in the third quarter.
We think it's a good trend.
I'm just not prepared to tell you right now that I think we can get to 10% next year.
I would tell you that is the goal okay? And so we're going to work hard with the team there to get there.
But again the fixed cost component of this business is a challenge when revenue moves up and down.
Research Division</strong> You cited in the quarter Steve I think a reduction in personnel and a reduction in depreciation expense.
Are you done with significant cost structure changes in that business? Or is there a lot more to come? I'm not sure a lot more is a word that I'd use.
But I would tell you David that as I mentioned we're kind of looking at everything.
And obviously we're looking at the cost side of all of our businesses as we always have.
And so I think you'll continue to see us adjust cost structures where we've got businesses that aren't producing the financial results that we think they can.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up moving on to retirement services.
This is a business that I know Tom McDonnell has been highlighting as an important area for growth.
And I think in the last few calls there have been some comments on the pipeline in the retirement services business.
Can you bring us up to speed on what you see in terms of the new business pipeline? Do you have large prospects out there? And then give us a sense of how you think your solution stacks up relative to SunGard in this business.
Well as I mentioned to Jim we don't really get into the pipeline.
We obviously -- well when we've -- part of what we've been talking about is the conversions that we have.
So this would be committed business where we've got conversions that we're bringing account holders onto our platform or shareowners onto our platform.
So we're making progress there.
As I said we've got another 1.3 million participants to go ahead and transition onto the platform.
I think the big trend that we're seeing and part of the reason -- we're bullish on this business for a couple of reasons.
The first is there's obviously the trend of the aging population the fact that there's 10 000 baby boomers a day are retiring or reaching retirement age and the fact that self planning for self retirement is one of the key tenets that we think is going to continue to go forward here in the U.S.
Our solution fundamentally we have an ASP model as well as a full service model.
And so one of the things that we think our customers are challenged with or our prospects are challenged with is where they've got a technology solution and a software solution in-house in many instances we go in and visit with people and they have big development shops in-house maintaining that software.
And not unlike our mutual fund solution in the retirement space we've got a single set of code that we maintain so regulatory changes come around.
We change it once and we change it across the whole client base.
As our customers look at how to variable-ize their costs they're looking more and more at outsourcing the technology.
And so that's been the main driver of the businesses that we've won.
And really it's around how do we help our customers lower their internal costs so they can be more successful.
And I think that's probably the key differentiator with our solution.
Research Division</strong> Just a final question for me Steve.
Nice progress in monetizing the portfolio particularly with Computershare.
The big stake left there obviously is State Street.
Are there any possible solutions you're exploring with State Street to monetize that stake? We're obviously not going to touch on any discussions that may be going on.
What I would tell you is we have no -- the State Street stock is unencumbered.
We can sell that should we desire to.
And I guess I'll just go back to we continue to look at all of our nonoperating assets in the broader context of the balance sheet and capital plan for the company so.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from Dave Koning of Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is just -- we've had some questions from investors just about the worry that the tax-advantaged accounts would start to move to subaccounting.
Are any of the 5 million to 6 million that you expect next year in terms of deconversions from the tax-advantaged group? Or is it all the non-tax-advantaged group? David I'm looking at Ken here.
First of all I would tell you I don't think we've broken that out in the past and I don't have good visibility into it.
We've not seen -- we've talked about in the past in the 529 space a single plan with a single broker/dealer converting.
We do believe that 1 or 2 other broker/dealers may subaccount some 529 accounts from that same plan.
And that's because that's where the vast majority of the accounts reside there.
Beyond that we get back into the situation where we've got a dispersion of accounts and really not a lot of big buckets of 529 accounts.
So that's kind of the 529 story.
The IRAs we've not seen any movement to subaccount IRA accounts to date.
And so there's nothing in our projections for that next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then on the Financial Services margin side it sounds like I guess first of all investments are starting to be biased down a little bit.
So that's probably a little benefit to Financial Services margin.
And then also deferred comp if that's just neutral from here on assuming the market is flat I guess that's just neutral.
That's going to be a little benefit to margins next year too.
So just those 2 in isolation give you a small lift.
Is there anything else that should move margins higher? I mean is the core business generating good incremental margins right now? Or I guess what else should we look at for margins in Financial Services? Yes I think Ken touched on an important component here.
We've been investing in both our Brokerage Solutions and Retirement Solutions businesses.
And the end result of that has been new business wins.
And so as you know when we win new business we incur the conversion costs there.
The margins in the business I'd say are -- remained relatively stable.
There's obviously as I said some headwinds as we lose accounts taking out -- it's difficult to adjust a fixed expense.
So I would suspect that we're going to see hopefully some margin expansion in the Financial Services segment next year.
But I don't think it will be dramatic.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And then did I hear you right? Did you say Output U.K.
for the full year next year should be in profit mode or just should reach profitability at some point during 2013? Should reach profitability at some point during the year next year.
That one has been -- there's a lot of hard work going on over there.
As you all know closing and consolidating facilities is difficult in any environment.
There's some specific challenges around it in the U.K.
And that work remains as well as a pretty serious look at the overall cost structure of that business and what we can do to adjust it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a couple other things just to make sure I heard you right.
ALPS did you say up 11% revenue year-to-date? Yes sir.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the mutual fund business I don't know if you've made comments like this in the past but it sounded like you said between down 1% and up 1% year-over-year in revenues in 2012.
No I'm sorry that was in accounts.
And that was -- I should've been clearer there.
That was kind of one of the things one of the key components we've looked at is what's the organic growth rate of the businesses right? And we think about it in terms of accounts.
And so for mutual funds we expect the account growth organically to be negative 1% to plus 1%.
It's interesting.
We've got some data from the St.
Louis Fed that would tell us that we think there's about $14 trillion on the sidelines right now of $3 trillion in money funds $3 trillion in T-bills and about $8 trillion in bank deposits.
And so when I talk about the headwind of lack of investor confidence that's really impacting that mutual fund business and the fact that we just -- we're not seeing a lot of organic growth in it.
So we're not seeing a lot of new accounts being opened through our existing customers.
Our final question comes the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit more about some of the non-core investments and how -- the process that you go about evaluating.
How you would compare keeping or retaining those investments versus liquidating them paying the tax and potentially redeploying that into share repurchases or M&amp;A? Are you going to be evaluating each investment based on a forecasted return basis and then comparing that to share repurchases? And kind of how do you contemplate then some of the unrealized -- the gains and some of the tax burden that may be incurred? Well Pete it's a good question.
And as you've just laid out there are a number of variables right? So it's not a single threaded let's look at this investment and its return characteristics versus this option to deploy the capital.
And so I would tell you we're working hard and working with the board on an overall capital plan for the company.
And I think when we have more clarity that we're willing to share around that we'll certainly do it.
But at this point I would just tell you everything is on the table and we're looking at it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are there any limitations in your mind as to share repurchases? You have not been as active there over the last year or so.
Any limitations or considerations whether it be a large owners or potentially the convert that we should be thinking about? Pete we've got a 2 million share authorization from the board that's outstanding.
And as I mentioned earlier we have taken the proceeds from the recent monetizations and used them to reduce our debt.
And we did let our debt creep up a bit over the last couple years as we were out and kind of actively acquiring businesses.
And so our focus has been on getting that those debt leverage ratios back into what I'd call more of a normalized environment for ourselves.
So beyond that there's no real concerns beyond that relative to share repurchase.
LLC Research Division</strong> And given that small block of Series C converts out there would you anticipate calling them in at the next call date? Pete it's Ken.
As you pointed out we have a call right on in August of 2013.
And we'll evaluate it at that time in terms of its cost of holding that dilution associated with it versus the cost of extinguishing it.
We did put that call window in to give us that flexibility.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe one more question on mutual fund industry.
I think we've lost something like $20 million money market mutual fund accounts over the last decade including more than half of that since the financial crisis.
Do you anticipate when unlimited FDIC coverage for banking accounts lapses that we may see some of those funds return to the mutual fund industry in 2013? Boy Pete we hope so but your guess would be as good as ours.
We have seen a decline in money market funds.
We still think money market funds are a very valuable tool for not only institutional investors but for retail investors.
And we've got a -- we service many large customers that have big money market businesses.
And so we certainly hope to see them return but again I'd hate to venture a guess as to what's going to happen.
Thank you.
That concludes our question-and-answer period.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Hooley for any closing remarks.
Great.
Well again we certainly appreciate your interest in DST and we look forward to speaking with you for the fourth quarter conference call.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's DST Systems third quarter earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Good morning.
Thank you and thank you for joining DST Systems Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Call.
I'm joined this morning here in Kansas City by our Chief Financial Officer Ken Hager and before we begin I would like to remind everyone that in the course of our conference call today we will make forward-looking statements regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on our views as of today and actual results could differ materially from forecast results.
There could be a number of factors affecting future results including those risk factors set forth in our latest annual and quarterly reports we filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that we may make.
So last quarter I begin with an outline of key focus areas during my early weeks as Chief Executive Officer and while I had a significant perspective from my tenure as Chief Operating Officer I approached this review with the intent of confirming our business strategies and developing a capital plan to support our operations and return value to shareholders.
Now I continue to spend significant time with our customers to understand their goals and how we can best support them and we sought ways to add even more value to our products and services and remain committed to ensuring that our customers are serviced to the highest degree of satisfaction.
I want to reiterate that our primary goal is to ensure that we're in the right businesses and by that I mean businesses that drive consistent performance growth and profitability.
DST is well positioned in our core business and I'm pleased with our fourth quarter results.
We believe there's significant opportunity for additional growth so long as we effectively and efficiently manage each of the businesses within our portfolio.
As part of the review process we have incurred onetime net income charges of approximately $77 million or $1.67 of diluted earnings per share.
And certain of these charges were taken as part of our effort to reposition the company for the future and ensure that DST is a leader in the markets we service.
Good news is we're seeing positive momentum in segments of our businesses namely ALPS subaccounting and health care.
With certainty around the survival of the Affordable Health Care Act our clients are addressing their needs to comply.
We believe this is -- results in an opportunity for us.
Our Health Solutions business won new full service Medicaid business in the quarter which will begin generating revenue in the first quarter of 2013.
Argus experienced increases in Medicare Part D and Medicaid claims and market research suggests that an estimated 10 000 people become Medicare eligible each day.
We believe this trend will generate growth for DST as baby boomers reach retirement age in increasing numbers.
ALPS also had a solid year experiencing growth in both assets under distribution and administration.
ALPS revenues were $26.5 million for the quarter a 4.7% increase over third quarter of 2012.
Assets under distribution grew 19% and assets under administration grew 9% in 2012.
Our subaccounting business also continues to expand.
Yes we won a new subaccounting client with 300 000 accounts in the fourth quarter.
In addition we now expect that the new client announced last quarter will convert a total of 5.2 million subaccounts which is 1.3 million higher than previously reported.
Now turning to our core transfer agency business we continue to expect between $5 million and $6 million registered accounts to transfer to subaccounts in 2013 and similar to '12 we project approximately 30% of those accounts will convert on to the DST subaccounting platform.
And as we've said in the past our projections represent a combination of internal models and inputs from customers when available.
As announced today we are renaming our Output Solutions segment to Customer Communications.
This reflects our changing focus from predominantly physical output to a provider of data management and insight electronic communication and physical communication.
This change accelerated in 2011 when we made a number of acquisitions in this space with the goal of broadening our product offerings to meet our clients' needs across their customer base.
Our Customer Communications North American business showed significant increases in both images produced and packages mailed while revenue for the quarter was up 6.6%.
Income for the quarter was negatively impacted by costs associated with client conversions.
And we were pleased that North America generated a 10% margin during the quarter.
Our Customer Communications U.K.
operations continues to experience challenges and we continue to review this business and have committed to develop a plan to achieve reasonable profitability in the near-term.
We have reduced our operating sites from 8 facilities with 657 000 square feet to 5 facilities with 511 000 square feet.
In addition we've reduced headcount from 1 700 to fewer than 1 300 people.
We remain committed and focused on improving the performance of this business unit and continue to review all options to do so.
While our main focus was on performance in each of our business units we are also taking action to deliver value to shareholders in the near-term.
During the quarter we received $113.6 million in proceeds through asset sales including our position in Euronet and a portion of our State Street holdings as well as distributions from private investments resulting in $85 million of after-tax proceeds.
We will continue to review on our nonoperating assets in the context of the overall strategy for the business and on an opportunistic basis for monetization or repositioning.
We're also focused on our real estate portfolio and specifically on non-occupied properties.
During the quarter we sold 3 properties for a total of $8.1 million.
In addition our IFDS joint venture -- our IFDS Canada joint venture sold its 50% interest in a real estate partnership which owns the building in which IFDS Canada is a tenant.
DST recognized $14.8 million from its portion of the gain on this transaction.
We're going to continue to position our real estate portfolio to reflect our operating needs while ensuring the appropriate use of capital for the company that support our operating businesses.
Using cash generated from asset monetizations and operations we were able to reduce DST's debt by $90 million during the quarter and $369 million for the full year.
At year-end our debt outstanding was $1 billion.
The company continues to enjoy a solid balance sheet which provides us flexibility in our decision-making while supporting our growth areas and allowing us to capitalize on other opportunities that may arise from time to time.
The DST Board has also announced its intention to pay a quarterly cash dividend and declared a $0.30 dividend payable in the first quarter.
The board intends to be consistent on our dividend however as a practice we will review the dividend on a quarterly basis.
We also announced this morning that the Board has authorized a 250 million share repurchase program replacing our existing program.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased 1.25 million shares under our previous program at a total cost of approximately $74 million.
We continue to believe dividends and share repurchases are an effective way to return capital to shareholders while providing flexibility in our use of cash to ensure we're making the best allocation decisions to position DST for success.
I want to acknowledge the announcement last week that Brent Law has joined the Board of Directors.
Brent brings significant financial investment and tax expertise to the Board and I look forward to working with him to drive shareholder value.
I also want to thank Bob Jackson who stepped down from the board last week for his many contributions to DST.
And we certainly wish Bob all the best.
So as you've heard this morning there's significant activity under way and we expect there's more to come.
While we continue to manage through headwinds facing our business we believe there's a strong and profitable future ahead and one that will deliver solid return to investors.
At this point I want to go ahead and turn the call over to Ken Hager our CFO to review the financial results for the quarter.
Thanks Steve.
We posted GAAP diluted earnings per share for the quarter of $0.82.
Principal non-GAAP adjustments included the following: goodwill impairment and facility advancement costs associated with our U.K.
Customer Communications business; net gains from monetization activities and distributions from private investments; income tax benefits resulting from the resolution of open items with the IRS; and employee termination cost as we continue to reshape the organization.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis we had $1.19 of earnings -- diluted earnings per share for the quarter as compared to $1.07 for the fourth quarter 2011.
DST earnings for the quarter increased $7 million or 14.6% to $55 million.
The remainder of our comments will address our non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues increased $29.7 million or 6.5% to $487 million and the consolidated operating income increased $6.5 million or 9.2% to $77 million.
Excluding the effects of deferred compensation consolidated operating income increased $3.2 million during the quarter to $78.4 million.
Financial Services operating revenues increased $24.7 million or 8.3% to $320.8 million.
We recorded increases in revenue at DST Healthcare from higher pharmacy claims process and an increase in covered medical lives.
We also recognized higher consolidated software license revenues of $3.9 million primarily from our investment management software business.
ALPS revenues increased from higher assets under management and distribution in a full quarter of revenue in 2012 versus 2 months in 2011.
These revenue increases were partially offset by lower mutual fund revenues resulting from the decline in registered account serviced.
We incurred increased client conversion development and operating costs in our retirement and brokerage business units.
These costs in the decline and mutual fund processing revenues resulted in a decline of Financial Services' income from operations of $3.7 million to $65.4 million excluding the effects of deferred compensation costs.
As Steve mentioned we have renamed the Output Solutions segment to Customer Communications to more appropriately reflect its product offerings.
Customer Communications' operating revenues increased $4.3 million over fourth quarter 2011 from higher volumes in North America.
Operating income increased $6.6 million over 2011 primarily from facility and personnel cost reduction efforts in the U.K.
Overall equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $3.5 million over fourth quarter 2011.
Both IFDS U.K.
and Canada have begun to see increased revenues from recent new client conversions and both recorded increased earnings over the prior period.
IFDS U.K.
will continue to incur costs for new life and pension clients and new unit trust clients will affect -- which will continue to affect of their results.
The primary effect of affecting other income this quarter is lower amounts of unrealized appreciation recognized on securities held which offsets the change in deferred compensation expense previously mentioned.
Our 33.4% income tax rate for the quarter was less than our prior estimate of 38%.
The primary reasons for the decline were a refinement in our state income tax accrual rate and the effect of changes both in the absolute amount and the relative mix of domestic and international income.
The effect of the change in the reduction of income tax rate over the 2011 quarter resulted in an increase of $0.06 in diluted EPS.
We currently estimate that our income tax rate for 2013 will be approximately 35% but of course this will vary based on the mix of income in 2013.
Notwithstanding the 1 250 000 share repurchase in the fourth quarter of 2012 average diluted shares outstanding increased 1.4 million shares from the fourth quarter of 2011 from shares issued under equity compensation plans and the dilutive effect of a higher average stock price.
At this time Steve and I will be available to take your questions.
Operator we are ready for the Q&amp;A period.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Dave Koning with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is in the core financial segment.
You returned to growth pretty solid growth for the first time in several years.
And I'm just wondering when we look at the puts and takes I guess in the quarter certainly license was a little better some of the smaller units were growing pretty well it looks like.
I guess what's the sustainability of growth and maybe growth at this level around mid-single-digit organic? I think it's pretty good Dave.
The health care business and we talked about some of the broader trends that are impacting that.
We expect to see good growth there.
Our subaccounting business we talked about we've had some good customer wins there and have a big conversion taking place this quarter.
ALPS continues to win new business and the market uptick helps us quite considerably there as the majority of their fees are paid on a basis point basis.
And in our core business we're doing a good job of overcoming the headwinds of subaccounting and we continue to watch that closely but feel like -- we feel like we can sustain that low single-digit kind of organic growth for the year.
So we feel pretty good about the momentum.
And obviously we Ken and I both talked about the aging population and the trend there and that impacts a number of our businesses not only in the U.S.
but really in all of the jurisdictions that we operate around the globe.
Research Division</strong> Great great.
And I guess you mentioned health.
And certainly that's starting to pick up nice from a revenue standpoint.
What are the profit margins looking like and maybe what's the opportunity over time? I mean are we at a better profit level now and maybe something where the margin is starting to get fuller? Or are we still at a pretty low margin that can ramp over time? Yes.
I think the gentleman that runs that for us is a very good operator and I think Jonathan and his team have done a nice job over the last 24 months of repositioning that business of getting it to a point where from a systems perspective it's much more efficient.
And so we don't break out the operating margins specifically on that business Dave but I would tell you it's in a much better shape than it was in 24 36 months ago to the point that where we're quite pleased with the profit margins in that business.
And we think that they are sustainable and at this point hopefully we'll see some top line growth and there should be some leverage there if we can do that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess my final question for now.
The IFDS businesses within affiliates had been running pretty close to breakeven in terms of the way you reported your affiliate income for the last few quarters and combined now stepped up to about $5 million.
And you mentioned there's still actually some cost within that $5 million of ramping some accounts.
I mean are we at least now at a plateau where $5 million a quarter from those 2 IFDS affiliates -- is that a reasonable run rate at least for now if the costs are still a little bit higher? Or could we see that step back down? I'm pretty comfortable with that level.
We converted a big block of business up in Canada during the fourth quarter so we'll have the full year benefit of that.
In our U.K.
business they have a big opportunity in the life and pension space and we're spending quite significantly from an investment perspective during this year and into '14 to capture that space.
But again I think the conversions that took take place in the back half of last year -- and we invested as you know we invested heavily last year on those 2 businesses -- should give us a better run rate this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> As regards ALPS looks like that business is seeing some really nice growth on the EPS and closed end  side.
Is it possible to get a run rate or maybe a full year 2012 revenue for ALPS so that we can get some idea of how fast it was growing? I can...
Pete we have disclosed the quarterly revenues for ALPS in each quarter.
We just need to go back and add them up and give it to you.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you said you sold a portion of the State Street position in the quarter.
What would be your current number of shares held? About 8.5 million? It's closer to 9 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how about shares outstanding at the end of the quarter? Did you mention that? 44.3 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then as regards the dynamics around the fund business I know you typically give this information in the first quarter call and look at the -- when you look at tax season but I'm looking at the mutual fund numbers here and I'm just wondering if you're seeing intraquarter any uptick in new account creation on the registered fund account side? Or is it too early to tell? Pete again I would tell you consistent with last quarter I think that business from an organic perspective is going to be a negative 1 to 1% mover for the full year 2013.
We are seeing so interestingly right? You're seeing flows back into equity funds.
The new accounts though are showing up as broker subaccounts.
And so that's part of the reason you're seeing better organic growth in our subaccounting business than in our registered accounting -- registered book business.
And we think that's a trend that will continue.
That's part of the reason we made the big focus and push to get into subaccounting and it's part of the reason you're seeing organic growth rates there that are significantly higher than the registered book.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
And then last question.
In terms of the share repurchase plan do you have any thoughts in terms of timeline when you like to have -- to see that accomplished? No.
We don't Pete.
We didn't put any timeline on it and as you know we have a long history of completing share repurchases and that would certainly be our intent at this point.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of David Togut with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Nice to see the 10% EBIT margin in North America Customer Communications segment.
Is that a sustainable level of profitability for that business? Yes Dave.
That's a good -- it's a good question.
And as we talked about last quarter I'm not prepared to tell you that I think that business can maintain a double-digit EBITDA margin on an ongoing basis.
We're right kind of at the level where if revenues are strong we'll get to the double-digits.
If revenues dip as you know that business has a high fixed cost and capital content to it and it's just very hard to adjust the cost base on a short-term basis.
So to the extent revenues are strong.
We feel like it's achievable but again our ability to adjust the costs in that business short-term are very difficult and so -- and you've seen us quarters above the 10% and quarters below the 10%.
We had a similar dynamic in our Customer Communications U.K.
business who had a very improved fourth quarter and it was driven by 2 factors: one getting our costs aligned appropriately; and two they had a strong revenue quarter.
So again I'm not here prepared to tell you that we think that we're going to produce a 10% margin.
As I said last quarter that's certainly the goal but I'm not confident at this point to tell you that we think that we're going to achieve that in 2013.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
Just shifting gears on the investment side.
Ken can you quantify the total EPS impact this year expected for investment insurance brokerage and retirement services? Dave before I ask Ken to do that let me take that one if I can and just give you a little bit of insight in terms of where those businesses are relative to maturity.
So we've talked over the last 2 years about the investment in those businesses right? And one of the things that's interesting is you've seen in the brokerage space and in the retirement space a number of new customers that have -- that we've signed up that we're in the process of converting or that have converted.
And so one of the dynamics that happens as you move from kind of a startup investment in a business you start to win new customers and what happens is the cost begins to shift from pure investment to investments in completing conversions and investments in specific development for customer needs as well as kind of the ongoing operations of the business.
And so a little bit hard for us to track here's what we spent in investments in 2010 '11 and '12 and this is what it's going to be for '13 because as those businesses become more mature and quite honestly as they attract new customers the shift of that expense again the pure investment expense begins to shift into other categories.
So Ken I don't know how you characterize the investment spend broadly.
Well I think the way we've tried to characterize it has been to maybe include most of those elements in there but although as Steve points out sometimes it's difficult to assess.
I think given where -- what we see right now we would expect those numbers to trend down a little bit in 2013 but probably not at a significant level at this time.
Yes.
So the one other insight I'd give you Dave is I'm pretty comfortable in both of those businesses that we have a very solid and competitive platform vis--vis competitors in the marketplace and our customers' needs.
The development portion at this point really is about building out specific needs that our customers are looking for as part of their conversion process or as they go out and try and attract new business in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> I see.
Okay.
So ballpark last year investment spending was in the $0.50 to $0.60 range I believe on EPS so we should assume that's down but not down a lot? Is that fair? Yes that's fair.
It will -- if I had to put a number on it David we'd say it's going to be in the $0.40 to $0.45 range this year.
And again it's a shift of customer-defined development for the most part as well as other things that we'll do to keep the platforms contemporary.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of looking at capital structure can you give us a sense Ken of 2013 interest expense? Well David we've got about $1 billion of debt right now and a higher percentage of that is really more of fixed-rate debt now because of the high replacement debt we put out which is fixed and the convertible debentures which is fixed.
The -- we would anticipate that the debt -- that overall interest expense should modify -- should be somewhat lower by probably 10% to 20% over 2012.
Research Division</strong> I see.
Okay.
And then you've shown Steve that you're starting to sell noncore assets in real estate and the investment portfolio.
So that's certainly very good to see.
Can you give us a sense of how aggressive you'll be in this process going forward? I mean in other words you see a lot of opportunities near-term to monetize these assets on a favorable basis for DST shareholders.
Well listen we're going to monetize these assets based on opportunities in the marketplace and quite honestly in the context of the overall balance sheet for the company and the capital plan for the company.
So again we've seen opportunities particularly in the real estate.
You saw us in the fourth quarter there were 3 really small properties here in Kansas City that we had opportunities on and we took advantage of that.
So it's really not a single-threaded strategy.
It is very much tied into overall capital plan and strategy for the company.
Research Division</strong> I see.
Just quick final question for me.
I don't know if you gave the incremental ALPS revenue from acquisition in the quarter.
So if we're looking sort of year-over-year Q4 '12 versus Q4 '11 what was the increment just from acquisitions? The overall revenue of ALPS in 2011 was -- over '12 over '11 was about $11 million of overall increase.
Some of that was the inclusion of 3 months in '12 versus 2 months in '11 and some of it was growth.
That's why we felt the sequential growth was a more meaningful number.
Ladies and gentlemen we have one more time -- we have time for one more question.
Our final question comes from Greg Smith with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> When you filed the amended credit agreement back in November the 7 -- where you had -- you got the right to use up to $750 million of proceeds from let's just say noncore assets in this quarter you monetized $113.6 million can we -- should we subtract that from the $750 million to think about sort of what's potentially left? Am I thinking about that correctly? Greg this is Ken.
I think you're mostly thinking about that correct.
As we pointed out about $86 million was the sale of marketable securities and then we had some distributions from private equity investments.
So I would say that most of the $113 million counts but probably not 100% of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's still -- okay great.
But still significant potential left I guess.
And then on -- and so you guys sold some State Street during the quarter.
Should we assume and those were fully taxed shares you paid the taxes.
Should we assume that perhaps you'll sort of dollar cost average your way out of that position at this point? Or is still just dependent there's no firm plan here? Yes.
Again Greg as we said last quarter the State Street shares are unencumbered.
We did take the opportunity to monetize certain of the shares in the fourth quarter and we'll look at the investment portfolio again in the broader context of the overall balance sheet and capital plan for the company.
So I think we -- we're taking a measured approach and looking at monetization opportunities on an opportunistic basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just back to the subaccounting.
Just so as we look beyond 2013 there's still the question of just sort of what's left? Are you aware of any large broker-dealers that are not subaccounting that may begin to subaccount? Or are there any large fund families that aren't being subaccounted by the large broker-dealer? And then just the last question I'll throw in there is are you still not seeing any IRAs moving to subaccounting? Yes.
So Greg and let me take the first part of it the big broker-dealers.
We don't see any big broker-dealers that haven't begun subaccounting and quite honestly most of them are pretty well of -- through the subaccounting of accounts that are on our platform.
Again that's the -- to give you a little bit of insight the 5-point -- the $5 million to $6 million that we are talking about this year as you know and we've been very clear about -- we have our own internal models that we use.
We then run that up against what our customers are telling us.
At this point in the year less than $1 million of those $5 million to $6 million that we're projecting are confirmed okay? So no big broker-dealers that haven't started to subaccount and aren't significantly through the game.
No mutual fund customers that haven't been impacted by it.
On the tax-advantaged accounts we did in the quarter and we announced this I think 2 quarters ago we did in the quarter see 150 529 accounts get subaccounted.
Again that was something that we talked about relative to a certain broker-dealer who communicated that.
On the IRA front that's one that we're watching closely.
We do know that there is -- there have been discussions with -- again with a certain broker-dealer about the IRA accounts.
We still contend that it's not as straightforward.
We believe and we believe the marketplace feels that a move of an IRA account requires a positive consent from the owner of that account to change trustee as well as these accounts again continue to be relatively for the most part low-dollar-value accounts and there's pretty wide dispersion across our account base.
So it's being looked at by the broker-dealers and again we think it's not as straightforward as the registered accounts but that's new information.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can just 2 more questions.
In the past when thinking about share repurchases you guys have made some comments about -- some concern about the float.
Is there any concern about that at this point or is that just not something you're worried about? No.
I don't -- I mean we obviously keep an eye on it.
Interestingly we've had discussion with some of our shareholders and I would tell you the feedback from our shareholders is that there's -- they don't appear to be concerned about the float.
So it's something we watch but we certainly wouldn't have put this new authorization in place and the Board would not have authorized it if we felt like it was going to create an issue from a float perspective.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just hopefully a quick one.
Ken I don't -- hopefully you didn't give us but what should we think about for tax rate for 2013? We said 35% in the release.
Thank you.
That concludes our question-and-answer period.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Hooley for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you Lynn.
Well to conclude we're making important changes in the way we view our business and I expect 2013 will be busy.
We're pleased to provide shareholders with some near-term capital return opportunities through the quarterly dividend and additional share repurchase authorization.
And at the same time we expect additional benefit from continued monetization of noncore assets and real estate.
We're very excited about the opportunities in front of us and I look forward to updating you on our progress.
Thanks very much for joining us today.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to DST Systems First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the call over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you Jackie.
Well good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems first quarter of 2013 earnings call.
I'm joined today by our Chief Financial Officer Ken Hager.
I plan to overview some business highlights for the quarter and Ken will follow up with a review of the quarter's financial results.
DST reported consolidated net income of $93.2 million or $2.04 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2013.
This compares to $55.3 million or $1.22 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2012.
Taking into account certain non-GAAP adjustments outlined in our earnings release today consolidated net income was $45 million or $0.99 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2013.
This compares to $47.5 million or $1.05 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2012.
As we stated in the release our first quarter 2013 diluted EPS results were negatively impacted by $6.6 million of unrealized losses in foreign currency exchange rates related to intercompany loans and $2.4 million of lower dividend income.
And combined these reduced 2013 diluted EPS by $0.13.
So I'm really pleased with our solid operating results for the first quarter.
And I'm encouraged by strong revenue generation both organic and through client conversions.
This growth was predominantly in our Customer Communications segment and from the Argus brokerage retirement and ALPS business units within our Financial Services segment.
We experienced growth in health care volumes which contributed to higher revenues.
Pharmacy claims paid increased 10% as compared to the first quarter of 2012 and we implemented 2 new full-service medical claim processing clients with 100 000 new members in the quarter.
In addition to strong organic growth our brokerage unit converted $5.7 million new subaccounts which was slightly higher than previously reported and was driven by the conversion of a large client that was announced last quarter.
In our retirement business we successfully converted 1.1 million participants from previously announced new clients.
And in addition we received a $6 million payment from a partial termination of a retirement business client.
We treated this payment as a non-GAAP adjustment to our first quarter results.
And basically what happened here is we have a client that was converting to our platform and during the conversion process our client sold their retirement business and the acquirer has decided not to move a block of participants.
And again this resulted in the payment to DST.
The company continues to expect between 5 million and 6 million registered accounts to convert to subaccounts during 2013 and we expect 25% of these accounts to convert to DST's subaccounting platform.
Our total mutual fund shareowner accounts increased $6.9 million to $95 million during the first quarter which reflected slightly positive organic growth coupled with the conversions that I've just mentioned.
Our Financial Services revenues and operating margins were adversely affected by the decline in mutual fund processing revenues and the timing of software license revenues as well as conversion and business expansion costs across the segment.
And we continue to expect little to no organic growth in our registered account business during 2013.
However we do believe there'll be organic account growth and it will take place in the broker-dealer sector which is consistent with our continued focus and investment in our brokerage solutions business.
The strong performance of our North American Customer Communications business resulted in an 11.5% increase in operating revenues year-over-year.
Our Customer Communications North American business also benefited from a significant year-over-year increase in operating margin which was 13.6% for the quarter compared to 8.4% in the first quarter of 2012 due to higher operating revenues from new clients.
Historically volumes in this business are typically higher during the first quarter for the Customer Communications segment and this is really due to the delivery of year-end statements and tax forms for our mutual fund clients.
In our U.K.
Customer Communications business we continue to focus on repositioning this business and on managing our operating cost.
These efforts delivered a modest improvement in income due to lower cost from facility consolidations and lower headcount from workforce reductions that we talked about and announced last quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We continued our efforts to prudently monetize noncore assets.
During the quarter we monetized approximately $100 million of investments generating approximately $75 million in after-tax proceeds a piece of which came from the sale of 500 000 shares of State Street Corporation.
Also during the quarter we were pleased to pay our first quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share.
And in addition the company spent $52.5 million to repurchase approximately 758 000 shares of DST common stock.
At the end of the first quarter we had approximately $200 million remaining under DST's current share repurchase authorization plan.
And our balance sheet is positioned to provide us great flexibility in our decision making while supporting our growth initiatives and allowing us to capitalize on opportunities that may arrive from time to time.
We continue to believe dividends and share repurchases are an effective way to return capital to shareholders while providing flexibility in our use of cash.
And with that I want to go ahead and turn the call over to Ken Hager our Chief Financial Officer to review the financial results for the quarter.
Thanks Steve.
As Steve mentioned on a GAAP basis we reported consolidated net income of $93.2 million or $2.04 per diluted share for the first quarter 2013 compared to $55.3 million or $1.22 per diluted share for the first quarter 2012.
The increase is principally the result of realized gains from asset monetization activities.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis we reported $0.99 of diluted earnings per share for the quarter as compared to $1.05 for the first quarter 2012.
The remainder of our comments will address non-GAAP results.
Year-over-year consolidated operating revenues increased $13.3 million or 2.8% to $489.2 million.
Financial Services operating revenues increased $3.2 million or 1% despite some headwinds primarily related to a decrease in U.S.-registered mutual fund shareowner account service as well as lower software license sales at AWD as a large license sale was recorded in the first quarter 2012.
Operating revenues in our Customer Communications segment increased $9.8 million or 5.9% from higher North America volumes.
Consolidated operating income increased $6.5 million or 10% to $71.1 million compared to the first quarter 2012.
Financial Services income from operation decreased $4.2 million or 7.6% to $51 million compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Customer Communications delivered an increase in consolidated operating income during the quarter of $10.6 million to a total of $19.2 million.
The increase was primarily due to higher North American revenues and the positive impact of our ongoing initiatives to lower cost at our U.K.
operations.
Overall equity and earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $300 000 over the first quarter 2012 primarily from improved performance at DST's real estate and other affiliates.
BFDS experienced a year-over-year decrease primarily from lower revenues associated with reduced levels of account service.
However both IFDS U.K.
and Canada have seen increased revenues from organic growth efforts and new client conversions.
IFDS Canada benefited from a new client that converted 1.1 million accounts in the fourth quarter of 2012.
As previously announced IFDS U.K.
is in the process of converting new shareowner processing clients with approximately 200 000 accounts by June 30 2013.
Revenue growth in Canada and the U.K.
during the quarter was partially offset by the cost of new client conversions in both businesses and new business development as well as the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements.
Our income tax rate for the quarter was 33.8% compared to 32.5% in the first quarter 2012.
We now estimate that our income tax rate for the full year 2013 will be 36.1%.
However our rate will vary on a quarter-to-quarter basis depending on the mix of domestic and international income.
Notwithstanding the 758 000 share repurchase in the first quarter of 2013 average diluted shares outstanding increased 400 000 shares from the first quarter 2012 but decreased by 500 000 shares sequentially.
The year-over-year increase is primarily due to shares issued under equity compensation plans and higher dilutive effects of equity compensation awards and convertible debentures partially offset by share repurchases made in the first quarter of 2013.
With that Steve and I are now available to take your questions.
So operator we turn it back over to you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann with Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> I had a kind of question for Ken as it regards the retirement customer that canceled due to the merger.
About how many participants were involved there? I missed that.
Well we didn't quote the number of participants that were involved.
We had a situation where the client had committed to convert all of its business to us.
But then as a result of it being acquired the acquirer decided not to convert a block of participants to us.
And so therefore the payment that we received was in consideration for that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So were the -- was the number of participants that were canceled had that been included in that number that we're using as kind of a contracted backlog last year? I think something like 2.5 million participants? Yes.
Yes that represented a portion of it.
So Pete the way this conversion that we were doing was multiple plans.
And there was 1 plan that hadn't converted.
And again the acquirer just decided they were not going to move that block over.
And so again consideration for that business that was committed that's not going to move and that's what the payment was.
LLC Research Division</strong> I see.
I see.
Okay that's helpful.
And then you saw some improvement in the U.K.
certainly on margin levels.
How much of that was influenced by seasonally higher volumes in the first quarter? And do you think that the operating profits are sustainable for the year in the U.K.? So Pete it was the improvement was virtually all cost.
If you recall last quarter we talked about -- we reduced our headcount by roughly 22% and our real estate footprint by roughly 24%.
And what we're seeing in the first quarter is the impact of that.
So revenue actually year-over-year for the quarter was down slightly in the U.K.
So is it sustainable for the rest of the year? I'd like to tell you we had real good visibility for the fact that I feel like we've got a solid footing there but we still got some work to do in that business.
Now again obviously the expense containment is sustainable.
And not unlike the U.S.
business we've got a high kind of fixed cost component there and so it will be very much driven by revenues.
And part of the challenge in the U.K.
Customer Communications business is that their revenue does tend to be lumpier not a very technical term than the U.S.
business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's helpful.
And then the theory -- I don't remember the company calling out kind of FX losses and intercompany loans as a big item.
Certainly this was one of the bigger ones that I would have expected.
What was the theory in not including that? Or adding that back into non-GAAP EPS? Well Pete this is Ken.
I guess our theory on that is that we viewed it as something that was -- didn't meet the criteria of being unusual or non-recurring to the extent that we thought it was.
We did try to highlight it in the release but we just didn't think it was -- it made it -- that the criteria that was typically used for non-GAAP items.
Your next question comes from the line of George Mihalos with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Was wondering if you could provide for us the number of tax-advantaged accounts that you ended the quarter with? And maybe comment if you're seeing any more of a push or any progress on the part of any of the brokers to try and push tax-advantaged accounts into the subaccounting realm? Sure George.
So let me take the second part first.
As we mentioned last quarter we have seen some movement in the -- of 529 accounts to be subaccounted.
And we also discussed at the time that we've got a broker-dealer that's approached us about IRA accounts and looking at potential to subaccount IRA accounts.
To date we've not had any IRA accounts that have moved.
But again clearly the broker-dealers are looking at it.
And there's still the component of a trustee and the involvement of a trustee.
And we believe and believe that the marketplace believes that that will require consent of the IRA holders.
So I think not really much of an update versus what I gave you last quarter.
And again we did see some 529 accounts get subaccounted.
And it's a portion of the 5 million to 6 million in total that we're talking about this year.
A portion a percentage of it is 529 accounts.
Ken.
George the tax-advantaged accounts at the end of March were 41.4 million which was unchanged from year-end.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And just to follow up on the 5 million to 6 million that you guys -- the registered accounts you guys are still looking to convert over the course of the year.
Is there any update as to the timing of that? I think on the last call you indicated that only -- there were only about 1 million or so firm commitments that you were aware of? Yes George and the way these -- the way this works you know this right is we still think the estimate is between 5 million and 6 million for the full year some of them that today we believe are going to happen will get pushed out.
We'll have other accounts that get pulled in.
Right now we've got committed roughly 2.4 million I believe of the 5 million to 6 million.
That's again a broker-dealer or a customer has come to us and said "Listen we're going to subaccount these accounts " and they've given us a date.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Koning with Robert Baird Research Division</strong> First of all I just I guess following up on Pete's question about why the $6.6 million FX adjustment I think you'd added back.
Is that mainly because every quarter it moves around a little bit maybe a little like a deferred comp adjustment? And so whether it's $1 million or $2 million or all of a sudden $6 million it's hard to any quarter decide to take it out? I think that's fair Dave.
I mean we have FX adjustments that occur the -- and they've moved back and forth.
They've never quite been this large and part of that was the way we financed or refinanced certain of the loans that our international U.K.
customer management operation had through an intercompany loan which resulted in this quarter having that FX loss.
When you look at it quarter-over-quarter sometimes they're up a little bit sometimes they're down a little bit.
It is below operating income item it is unrealized.
But they do vary based on -- they will vary based on changes in exchange rates.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay okay.
And I guess secondly registered accounts.
Each of the last 5 years in Q1 came down 2 million to 3 million sequentially.
So it's been a pretty stable Q1 sequential decline and I think a lot of that happened during the years when the accounts were shifting to subaccounting.
This Q1 for the first time in a long time it was only down 0.7 million sequentially.
Is most of that just a function of less subaccounting shift? Or is it also a function of just the improving mutual fund market or maybe stock market or maybe a combination of both? Well I actually think the majority of it is -- the actual number of accounts out there that can be subaccounted is coming down.
And so I think it's just the natural trend.
If you kind of look at in 2011 we had 14 million accounts in total.
In 2012 we had 9.2 million.
And this year we're talking about 5 million to 6 million.
And so I think you're just seeing the natural decline in the total number of accounts that are eligible to be subaccounted.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And then affiliate income it's averaged about $5 million to $6 million a quarter over the last 9 quarters or so now.
It used to be a little bit higher than that.
And I know you've been investing in new accounts that have been coming on.
When shall we see kind of the catalyst that kind of jumps this? And how much could this be per quarter on a normalized base in the future once some of the investments go away the new accounts come on? Well I think we're seeing a little bit of it in Canada where we saw in our -- in LP where we saw a nice pick up due to the conversions that took place in the fourth quarter.
On an operating -- on a pure operating basis we think that we're comfortable that this year should be stronger than last year.
We still have some pretty significant investment that we're making in the U.K.
marketplace on some very large customers and in the life and pension space.
So we feel like we are seeing the pickup but the investment's still taking place.
And again we expect the core operations to perform better than -- for the full year than fourth quarter.
That said in the fourth quarter we did have some revenue recognition that came through.
We had some reserves that we released.
And then we've got to factor in the loss of -- we had income from the property that we sold up in Canada.
And again had the same kind of FX impact running through the joint ventures that we did in the core business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe another way to ask it too because that was a good explanation.
There's some moving parts there.
IFDS used to be $15 million to $20 million every year for you guys.
It was very routine how much income.
And you've been considerably lower than that in the last several quarters now despite a lot more accounts than you ever had in the past.
So is it just fair now that you have a lot more accounts that at some point you can get back to at least where you used to be? I'm not going to put a time line on that Robert (sic) [David].
We've -- again we have brought on a lot of accounts and we've incurred the expense to do that.
And as I said we still got some investment that's taking place particularly in the U.K.
I mean that market's changed pretty considerably.
And if you think about the supermarkets in that market it's kind of the equivalent of subaccounting here in North America.
And so we're working hard to expand that business to get into more of the life and pensions and some other services that they can provide.
So they've got a bit of the same phenomena that we've hit here in North America.
And again we're investing heavily because we think there's opportunity.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Smith with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Let's start on the Financial Services.
I mean the revenue was very strong but the margin was under some pressure on an adjusted basis down year-over-year.
We've been were looking for sort of some of the investments to abate and we start to see more of the flow through.
I guess the question is sort of is there any way to quantify kind of the investment spending going on and the timing around that? And what the margin could look like for the full year if possible? Greg as we talked about last quarter what's interesting and what the transition that takes place here as you go from pure investment to build out capability to -- some of that turns into cost to convert customers as you win new business.
And then it transitions into specific delivery or development for components that customers are asking for.
So the investment piece tends to morph into a bit of ongoing costs.
And I'd like to tell you it just goes away but that's just not the fact.
What we did see is really good strength in brokerage ALPS retirement health care all businesses that we've been investing in.
And from a revenue perspective enough to overcome some of the headwinds in Financial Services and the low license sales that Ken referenced.
On a full year basis we're not going to put a margin percentage out there on a full year basis.
I would tell you that my sense is that we should see some improvement in the margin over the year.
And we certainly continue to manage the expenses tightly to try and generate that.
Research Division</strong> When you say improvement over the year that's from the 1Q level? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
Okay and then of the stuff that you...
And just to be clear that's in the Financial Services segment.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
Got it.
The stuff you monetized we obviously you gave us the State Street amount and we know how much it was on the distributions from private equity.
But what was the other stuff the other marketable securities? What exactly was that? Greg those are just other positions that we've held.
We've had a category of other available-for-sale securities and they were just holdings inside there.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then on just the Customer Communications broadly I mean I know we've got the seasonality in 1Q.
You've made some adjustments but do you feel like you've kind of turned the corner now and things are far less precarious from a profitability standpoint going forward? I think in North America that team's done a really solid job and they had a very good quarter.
There is some seasonality to it but I feel pretty confident in North America that if our revenues continue to be firm then we should produce reasonable profit margins there.
The question will be can we get to double digit? And again I'm just going to say that's very much revenue driven.
If our revenue continues to hold up then that's possible.
If revenue doesn't then again given kind of the fixed expense in that business it's very hard to take expense out quickly.
In the U.K.
marketplace I don't feel like we turned the corner all right? We're making progress.
We're very focused on the cost of that business and restructuring that business to get it into a more solid position.
But there is a lot of work to do there.
And again we've got a very good management team leading that.
But I don't feel as strongly about the U.K.
business as I do about the North American business.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then let me just -- last question go back to the potential subaccounting of IRAs.
You've got 1 broker-dealer sort of talking to you about it.
How do you see this playing out? It seems like you're still thinking that this may not happen.
But if it were is this a test case for other broker-dealers then? Just how should we really be thinking about this over the next couple of years? Yes it's a great question Greg.
And I would not tell you that we're sitting here planning that it's not going to happen okay? Again we think there's some more complexity relative to particularly the component of the trustee involved in these relationships.
And will other broker-dealers look at it? I think they absolutely will.
Again nobody's come to us and contacted us and said they're looking to do it.
These accounts again continue to be -- they're relatively low-dollar-value accounts.
But that doesn't mean that it won't happen.
And so I don't want to give you the impression that we've -- that we're not focused on it or that we've kind of made a decision that it's just not going to happen.
We certainly feel like it could.
And again we've got somebody talking to us about it.
We haven't seen the first accounts move yet but they could.
Research Division</strong> And then I'm sorry just the last one I promise.
Is the revenue characteristic of those accounts versus the nontax-advantaged that have moved to subaccounting did you say those are lower revenue typically for DST? Or is it comparable? No I'm -- what I said was they tend to be lower dollar volume accounts.
So they're smaller actual account sizes.
But the revenue component to DST is roughly the same.
Your final question comes from the line of Mark Best with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> This is Mark Best on the line on behalf for David Togut.
I have 2 questions one of which is what are your top 3 priorities for deploying the cash as you monetize noncore assets? The first -- well I'd say the 3 focuses are around reinvesting in the business continuing to manage our debt levels at a comfortable level for the company and returning capital to shareholders through both share repurchase and dividends.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you quantify the revenue contribution from ALPS during the quarter? ALPS revenue was roughly $27 million in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going back to your comments about software license sales.
I wasn't clear whether you were saying they were down year-over-year because there were some potential deals that were pushed out into the remainder of 2013? Or because they're lumpy and therefore 1Q 2012 was strong? Well so yes it's really the latter.
1Q 2012 was strong.
They do tend to be --we'll go back to that lumpy term.
And one of the things Mark that we feel pretty strongly about is we do not go out and adjust our pricing at quarter-end to try and make a license sale.
We kind of take the license sales as they come.
They come predominantly in our AWD business in our Health Solutions business in our Global Solutions business.
And we don't manage it quarter-to-quarter.
And so again we expect it to pick up for the rest of the year but we did have a soft first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what were the key drivers behind growth in pharmacy claims and then DST brokerage? Could you give me the outlook for both of those for the next 12 months of the unit.
Sure.
So in the brokerage area we had roughly a little over 5% organic growth.
And so again we do expect to see growth of accounts but it will come predominantly through our brokerage subaccounting solution.
And then we talk about a large conversion that took place about midway in the quarter that had slightly more accounts.
So we had initially -- or had reported last quarter.
And then so that's the brokerage.
The other question I'm sorry? Pharmacy claims.
Oh on the pharmacy claims.
Yes pharmacy claims again was a combination of organic growth and really that was it.
The 2 new customers we added were in the Health Solutions business.
So we just had good organic growth.
So our customers are doing a good job out attracting business and that flows through to us.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then I promise that this is my last question as well.
But for the first time I noticed 500 000 conversions from non-DST-registered platforms to DST subaccounts.
Is this the start of a trend? Or can you give me some color of what actually drove that? What that represents is that our existing brokerage subaccounting clients will convert registered accounts from non-DST TA platforms.
And so we consider that different than a conversion of a new brokerage subaccounting client.
So this represents the same phenomenon that we see on our registered accounts side but we see it from -- but in this case the client -- our subaccounting client is taking it from a non-DST TA platform.
Research Division</strong> And then that is separate from transfers from DST registered accounts? Right because it's coming from somebody who's using a non-DST TA platform.
You do have a question from the line of Greg Smith with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Hey I'm back.
Just is there a way to give us how much of the Financial Services revenue is associated with tax-advantaged registered accounts? No we don't break that out Greg.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are there similar with your non-tax-advantaged registered accounts are there different levels of networking among the tax-advantaged accounts? No no.
They run pretty much the same way the non-tax-advantaged do.
That was our final question and I'll turn the floor back over to Mr.
Hooley for any closing remarks.
Well great.
Thank you for joining us today.
We are moving ahead on our plans to drive growth and deliver value to our shareholders.
We continue to focus on ensuring that we're in the right businesses and those are businesses that will drive consistent performance growth and profitability.
And we believe we're on the right path to achieve our objectives.
So we appreciate your time today and we look forward to talking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems' Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the company views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference call over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Well good morning and thank you for joining us today for DST Systems' Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
I'm joined today by our Chief Financial Officer Ken Hager.
I plan to review some business highlights for the quarter and Ken will follow with a review of the quarter's financial results.
Overall we are very pleased with our results for the quarter which included a 4.2% increase in operating revenues and a 9.3% improvement in income from operations compared with the same quarter a year ago.
We also delivered positive operating leverage in all of our business segments.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income for the quarter was $46.3 million or $1.04 per diluted share including a onetime impact of $0.04 due to an ALPS fund launch expenses.
This compares to $35.4 million or $0.77 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2012.
While we continue to experience certain headwinds across our businesses we believe our results for the quarter demonstrate the fundamental strengths of our core business.
Our progress in the execution of our strategic initiatives is reflected across our results yet we continually -- we're continuing to aggressively manage costs identify opportunities to expand margins and make investments in our businesses to drive growth and enhance value for our shareholders.
In our Financial Services segment ALPS operating revenues increased over the prior year due primarily to market appreciation and new client acquisitions.
As I mentioned earlier ALPS launched a new closed-end fund that raised approximately $125 million in assets.
And as is typical for a new fund launch we incurred certain launch expenses which had a negative impact on diluted EPS for the quarter of $0.04.
We view this as a cost to position ourselves for continued success in this business and that this new fund will generate revenue and contribute to our profits in the future.
We're also pleased to report increased revenues over the prior year period at DST Retirement as well as the successful conversion of 200 000 participants from previously announced new clients.
We're particularly encouraged by these results given that this performance was achieved in a quarter that includes the annual removal of prior year inactive accounts.
We continue to invest in technology and client conversions in our Retirement business as a driver of future growth for the company.
And finally in our core recordkeeping business we recorded an increase in total accounts due to organic growth and subaccounting in new client conversions.
The company continues to expect conversions of registered accounts to subaccounts for 2013 to be between 5 million and 6 million accounts of which approximately 25% are expected to convert to DST's subaccounting platform.
During the first 6 months of 2013 approximately 3.1 million accounts have been converted to subaccounts.
In spite of this headwind we're pleased that we've been able to expand margins in our Financial Services segment on a year-over-year basis.
As part of our efforts to identify ways to best position each of our businesses for growth we've spent significant time evaluating the strategic and financial direction of DST Healthcare.
And based upon our review we announced today the creation of Health Services segment which is comprised of Argus Health Systems and DST Health Solutions businesses.
The new reporting segment more closely aligns with how we currently evaluate and manage the business and how we will make investment allocations going forward.
Our prior period comparisons today reflect adjustments to the new reportable segment and a supplement of this information is included within the earnings release.
Healthcare Services revenues increased $6.2 million an 8.2% increase while expenses increased 5.3% compared with the prior year period.
Operating income increased primarily due to higher revenue from pharmacy claims and increased operating revenues from the addition of new full-serviced medical claim processing clients.
Margins in this segment expanded to 13.9% as compared to margins of 11.9% for the prior year period.
This expansion reflects investments that we have made in our operating model and focus on operating efficiency as well as volume and mix of revenues for the quarter.
We have been notified by 2 health care clients that they will be transitioning away from DST.
Those clients represent approximately 25% of the pharmacy claim volume at the end of second quarter 2013.
The transition from DST Healthcare will take place over the next 36 months during which time our revenues will decline.
However we do not expect significant revenue decline until 2015.
Our Healthcare business is operating in a growing market and we're confident that we will continue to grow this business during this transition period.
The health care sector is a key focus for the company.
We believe that the aging population coupled with increased regulation from the Affordable Care Act present opportunities for providers like DST who are focused on large-scale processing and driving efficiencies.
Our Customer Communications segment also continues to experience growth primarily reflecting the ongoing success of our cost-reduction initiatives and improvement in the performance of the U.K.
business.
While I'm confident that we have the right management team in place we still have a long way to go before this business begins to achieve our performance expectations.
Our work to make this segment fundamentally stronger will continue for the foreseeable future.
And that said I'm encouraged by our progress and the results that we've achieved to date.
Moving to our capital structure and balance sheet initiatives.
During the quarter we monetized approximately $50 million of investment assets.
We also received $125 million dividend from our joint venture Boston Financial Data Services.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately $62.7 million of DST stock.
And in June we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share.
As of the end of second quarter we have approximately $137 million remaining on our current share repurchase authorization.
And finally we increased our cash on hand by $90 million reduced debt by $60 million for an overall reduction in net debt of $150 million during the first 6 months of 2013.
Reducing debt and maintaining a solid balance sheet are key initiatives that we believe will position the company to invest in the growth of our businesses.
We're committed to a disciplined investment approach coupled with the desire to continue returning capital to our shareholders.
With that I want to turn the call over to Ken Hager our Chief Financial Officer to review the financial results for the quarter.
Ken? Thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis we reported consolidated net income of $78.5 million or $1.77 per diluted share for the second quarter 2013 compared to $144.9 million or $3.17 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2012.
We have provided a reconciliation of reported GAAP to non-GAAP results in the release.
I would like to point out 2 of the adjustments included in the reconciliation.
In 2012 we recorded $2.56 of diluted earnings per share from a dividend and sale of a private company investment.
This is the primary reason for the decrease in GAAP earnings per share from 2012 to 2013.
In 2013 we recorded a $0.32 per diluted share income tax benefit related to resolution of certain income tax refund claims.
While we are pleased with this outcome since the tax benefit relates to prior periods we have treated it as an adjustment for determining non-GAAP earnings per share for the quarter.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis we reported $1.04 of diluted earnings per share for the quarter as compared to $0.77 for the second quarter 2012.
The remainder of our comments will focus on our non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues were $485.1 million an increase of $19.6 million or 4.2% over the prior year quarter.
Consolidated operating income increased $6.3 million or 9.3% to $74.4 million compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Financial Services operating revenues increased $8.3 million or 3.5%.
Increases were recorded for most business units particularly DST Brokerage Solutions ALPS and DST Retirement which were partially offset by declines in U.S.
registered mutual fund shareowner account serviced.
Financial Services income from operations increased $1.2 million or 2.3% to $53.4 million compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding $2.8 million of incremental cost incurred at ALPS as a result of the new fund launch and $5 million of higher deferred compensation cost which are offset within other income Financial Services operating income would have increased $9 million.
Our newly formed Healthcare Services segment had operating revenues of $82 million an increase of $6.2 million primarily from an 11.3% increase in pharmacy claims paid and increased full-service medical claim processing revenues from new clients.
Healthcare Services income from operations increased $2.4 million during the second quarter 2013 to $11.4 million primarily from increased revenues partially offset by increased personnel cost to support the higher volumes of revenue.
Operating revenues in our Customer Communications segment increased $4.1 million or 2.6% from North America new client volumes.
Customer Communications operating income increased $2.5 million or 43.1% during the quarter to $8.3 million.
The increase was primarily due to higher North American revenues and the positive impact of our ongoing initiatives to lower cost at our U.K.
operations.
Overall equity and earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased slightly over second quarter 2012 primarily from higher revenues at IFDS U.K.
Both IFDS U.K.
and Canada have seen increased revenues from organic growth efforts and new client conversions while BFDS experienced a year-over-year decrease primarily from lower revenues associated with reduced levels of accounts serviced.
Revenue growth in Canada and the U.K.
during the quarter was partially offset by the cost of new client conversions in both businesses and investments in new business development as well as the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements.
Our income tax rate for the quarter was 37.6% compared to 41.8% in the second quarter of 2012.
We now estimate that our income tax rate for the full year 2013 will be approximately 36.4%.
Our tax rate will vary on a quarter-to-quarter basis depending on the mix of domestic and international income.
The company repurchased 908 000 shares in the second quarter of 2013 which resulted in 44.5 million average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter a decrease of 1.1 million shares from the second quarter 2012.
We recently announced that we are calling for redemption our remaining outstanding convertible debentures.
We expect bondholders will request conversion to common shares and we will fund the full conversion value in cash.
This will eliminate the potential overhang on diluted shares outstanding.
In the second quarter 2013 approximately 300 000 shares were included in diluted shares outstanding associated with our convertible debentures.
With that Steve and I will be available to take your questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of George Mihalos of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Ryan Davis filling in for George.
I had a couple of questions for you guys on the Healthcare business.
First off could you kind of get a little more granular maybe between -- the margin difference between the DST Healthcare and Argus business? And then to follow up on that is there any way you could kind of give us some quantitative impact whether to the margins or the revenue exactly for the lost business upcoming over the next 36 months? Yes.
Ryan we were -- weren't -- we don't break out the revenue for the 2 separate business lines.
We're going to report revenue and profit margins at the segment level.
And we also do not break out customer revenues or profitability so I don't think we're going to be able to help you on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about your new business outlook? I know you've been spending a lot of time meeting with prospects and potential customers.
Has anything changed out there in the marketplace? Have spending intentions warmed at all with the relatively stronger markets here over the past 6 to 9 months? I mean do you feel like there are opportunities to grow and win additional business on top of what you've already announced in subaccounting or Brokerage and Retirement and as well potentially in mutual fund shareholder recordkeeping? Yes.
It is -- so you've touched on a lot of -- touched a lot of bases there Pete.
And it certainly -- on a case-by-case basis we're seeing growth.
I think in our Healthcare business we're certainly seeing some positive trends there.
Our customers seem to be doing well and are growing and so that obviously helps us.
We talked about in the retirement space we had some pretty good growth and we're comfortable there.
You've seen -- you see the numbers in our brokerage space and the subaccounting where we've had very good organic growth as well as continuing to win customers.
Our core business the 40 Act transfer agency business continues to go sideways.
We haven't seen organic growth.
And again I think we've talked right along that we expect organic growth in that business to be between negative 1% and 1%.
That continues.
Our Customer Communications business in the U.S.
we've seen some nice growth mainly due to the customers that we've converted over the last 6 months.
And in the U.K.
predominantly what we've seen there is improvement in the way we're running the business.
And so that's kind of come through in the operating income line for that business.
So I'd say we were pleased across-the-board with the quarter and feel like some of it is market impact and some of it's been due to what our management teams have been able to do relative to managing the business and really focusing on making prudent investments while managing the expense line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
And then as regards to the sales from the publicly traded portfolio seemed a little slow in the quarter and maybe perhaps I would've expected a little bit more given the strength in the broader market and the key investment there.
Is that a reflection of an inability to redeploy after tax proceeds or potentially kind of keeping some powder dry for future tuck-in acquisitions? Or was it just the way that the quarter fell in terms of sales? No.
I actually think we were quite pleased with the quarter.
As you saw we had a significant dividend that got paid from one of our joint venture companies.
And quite honestly Pete the monetization and we talked about this somewhat consistently is really part of the overall capital plan for the company.
So we view the dividend payment as part of the monetization plan and I think we've done a good job of redeploying those assets in terms of dividends share buybacks and investing in the business.
So we were pleased with the quarter and felt like the -- it absolutely met what the capital plan we've set out for ourselves.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then you continue to have a fairly decent amount on the share repurchase authorization.
Would you -- remind me when you announced that program did you have the timetable? We did not Pete.
And we -- again we were pleased with our results for the quarter.
And no we're not going to announce a timetable.
But I think you know and those that follow us know that we typically have met the full share buyback that's been authorized by the board.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Smith of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I missed the very beginning of the Q&amp;A.
But just on the Healthcare did you say that you think you can grow over this loss? So as you're losing the revenue from the 2 clients we still could see net positive growth in Healthcare? Is that correct? We did not say that Greg.
We haven't made a projection relative to being able to grow over the loss.
The loss is going to occur over a 24- to 36-month period.
We really won't start to see a significant revenue decline from the loss of these customers until 2015.
And the commentary that we made was that the health care sector is a growing sector.
We've got we think a very good footprint in it and we're confident in our ability to grow.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just help us think about the impact from interest rates.
We've obviously seen a rise in longer-term interest rates.
Can you talk about how that may benefit you? And then transition that to what if we do finally see fed funds rates go up how -- what are the puts and takes across the business? Sure.
Well I'll talk about the revenue side and I'll let Ken talk about the cost side from a -- our debt perspective.
From a revenue side we have 2 businesses that benefit from balanced earnings.
Our Healthcare business benefits and we also -- our joint venture Boston Financial benefits.
And so to the extent we see interest rates rise that certainly helps on the revenue side from both of those business segments.
We've talked about it in the past that today the cost to manage those balances as well as FDIC insurance the revenue was not -- we're not creating enough revenue off of those balances to cover those costs.
And so clearly the interest rate environment from a revenue side of the equation is not attractive.
And your guess is as good as ours in terms of what will happen with rates and on what timeline but there's obviously an offset which I'll let Ken address which is on the funding side of the equation.
Greg of our debt at -- right now a little more than half of it is fixed rate debt and the other half is variable rate debt.
So we probably have $450 million to $475 million of variable rate debt that we would see a negative impact on if rates were to go up because they're tied basically to LIBOR.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then BFDS seems like it's kind of facing some ongoing challenges.
It was great to see that dividend payment but is there any discussion of strategy change or any reason the ownership structure may change? If you can provide some more color on what's going on at BFDS please.
No.
I think -- so there's no discussion around any change in ownership or strategy.
BFDS is really facing what we're facing in our core business which is the headwinds of subaccounting.
We've got an excellent management team there that's doing a very good job.
They're starting to build out some additional capabilities around proxy and some other services that they can provide to their customers.
And so they're making some investment right now and some -- in some businesses to try and firm up their revenue.
But the story there is really one of the headwind of subaccounting.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Tim Wojs of Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I guess it's just a couple -- to start just a couple of questions on margins.
On the Healthcare side it looks like seasonally there's this -- there's a tick down in margins in the third quarter.
I guess first of all is that seasonal? And secondly should that -- should we kind of expect that historical pattern to repeat in terms of weaker Q3 margins and then those ramping in the Q4 in the Healthcare business? Yes I think you can expect that.
So first of all you're right there is some seasonality in the Healthcare margins and I think it's safe to assume that that will continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just on Customer Communications.
There's a step-down there this quarter in just -- in EBIT margins.
Specifically it looked like actually in North America.
Is there -- I guess what gives you guys confidence that that can kind of get back maybe into double-digit EBIT margin levels into the back half of the year and into '14? Yes.
I don't want to project forward but I would tell you in the quarter there were a number of nonrecurring operating expenses that came through in the North American Customer Communications business.
And so they certainly had some pressure on margins that should not recur.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's a nonrecurring stuff there that should fall off.
Yes.
Operating in nature yes.
Research Division</strong> okay that's helpful.
And then I guess this maybe a little early but you guys haven't changed your subaccounting outlook for 2013.
Is there any way you can give us a little bit of a preview of what maybe you guys are thinking for 2014? Yes.
So we're going to do that in the third quarter.
And the reason is I'm not comfortable yet in putting a number out there.
Here's -- and I -- we anticipated this question.
Here's what I'm prepared to say there's been a trend since the high point in 2011 and we expend -- expect that the trend will continue.
But we'll provide in -- on the third quarter call a projection for 2014.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now return the call to Steve Hooley for any closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you again for joining us today.
As you've heard we strongly believe in the fundamental strengths of the core business and we're working to bring each of our businesses to a level of performance that we view as industry-leading.
Our results for the quarter demonstrate our progress and we look forward to building on our momentum by continuing to prudently invest in the right products services and strategic initiatives to support growth.
We'll also continue to monetize noncore assets in a disciplined manner that achieves maximum value for each and every asset we sell.
We believe that obtaining maximum value ensures that our shareholders receive as much benefit as possible from their ownership of these assets as part of the DST portfolio.
We'll continue using these proceeds to pay down debt repurchase shares and invest in superior technology within our core businesses to deliver value.
So thanks very much and we look forward to speaking with you on the third quarter call.
Thank you for participating in the DST Systems' Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and our quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I'd like to turn the conference call over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Well good morning.
Thank you for joining DST Systems' third quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me today is our Chief Financial Officer Ken Hager.
And as you've seen we adjusted the format of our earnings release beginning this quarter.
We feel the new approach better focuses on the items that we believe are most important in considering and evaluating the company.
Now following my prepared remarks Ken will provide additional detail on our financial results.
Given that this call marks my first year addressing you as CEO of DST I'd like to begin with a review of our progress and accomplishments over the past 4 quarters.
My goal since day 1 has been to ensure that we are in the right businesses and that those businesses deliver consistent performance growth and profitability.
And I have to say I've never been more excited about our company and our prospects.
I also want to acknowledge the hard work of our management team and employees to get us to this point.
Among other things we've taken aggressive action in implementing our strategic plan including streamlining our business segments and improving the efficiency of our operating processes.
As we continue managing costs in all areas of the company we are on a parallel path of investing in new products and entering new markets.
We're encouraged by our progress in our Healthcare Services segment as well as ALPS Retirement and Brokerage operations and our Financial Services segment and are starting to realize the benefits of ongoing investment in the form of higher revenue and improved earnings.
We've seen significant improvement in our Customer Communications segment with new client signings and conversions.
In our Customer Communications U.K.
operations we have seen significant operating income improvement due mainly to lowering operating costs which are the result of facility consolidations and headcount reductions.
Importantly and to use a baseball analogy here our quarterly results were driven by hitting singles and doubles across all of our business lines.
While we remain in the early innings of our plan's execution we believe there is more opportunity to continue unlocking value as well as creating new value for our customers and our shareholders.
Our solid results this quarter demonstrate our momentum in the execution of our objectives and the growth potential of our operating segments.
Revenues are up 3.5% year-over-year for the quarter and we're pleased to report an increase in operating income of more than 20% year-over-year.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.21 as compared to $0.96 for the third quarter of 2012.
We delivered improved operating margins across all of our operating segments.
In addition to the previously discussed investments in Retirement and Brokerage to convert committed revenue we're also continuing to invest in staff and other infrastructure improvements in ALPS and our Healthcare Services segment to support our growing revenue base and positive outlook in those areas.
This could have a modest impact on our Healthcare and Financial Services margins in the near term but over the long term these investments will allow us to expand and benefit from access to new customers and markets.
From a segment perspective in Financial Services segments ALPS' operating revenues increased by double digits over the prior year quarter due to fund growth at existing clients and positive market movement.
Revenues in our Retirement business expanded by double digits as we continue with the conversion of committed revenue.
Our current conversion activities in the retirement space are scheduled out through 2015.
In addition we're encouraged by the level of activity and discussions with our customers related to our solutions in the retirement recordkeeping space.
In our core recordkeeping businesses we saw an increase of 9% in our total aggregate mutual funds and subaccounts through the first 9 months of 2013.
This was driven by organic growth in subaccounts of 3.8 million accounts and 5.7 million new subaccounts due to client conversions.
Year-to-date registered accounts have decreased in total by 4 million.
The primary driver of the decline is conversions to subaccounting.
But on a positive note we had organic growth of 400 000 accounts during that same period.
For the full year 2013 we continue to project subaccounting conversions of between 5 million and 6 million registered accounts to subaccounts which is consistent with our previous guidance.
We currently anticipate between 4 million and 5 million registered accounts to convert to subaccounting during 2014.
As we've discussed in the past these projections are based on our internal modeling.
Further as of today less than 15% of our projected conversions are committed.
I also want to share that we're getting down to smaller blocks of accounts that are available for conversion.
And the impact of this increases the variability of our projections.
We'll obviously continue to update you on this topic during 2014.
In our Healthcare segment we have dramatically improved operating margins increasing from 8% to 14% year-over-year.
This is primarily due to large-scale action taken over the last 3 years to drive higher operating efficiency through improvements in our operating and technology environments.
We're now largely comfortable with our cost structure and position and expect to maintain margins in the mid-teens.
Moving to Customer Communications.
During the quarter we signed 3 new clients 1 of which when fully transitioned by the end of 2014 is anticipated to be among our top 5 largest client -- Customer Communications clients.
The other 2 clients recently signed represent an additional 45 million annual packages.
These 2 clients are also expected to convert in 2014.
In addition the company was notified that a North American client with a 120 million annualized packages has chosen not to renew their contract.
And that contract expires in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our North American business reported double-digit operating margins for the quarter which was consistent with the same quarter in the prior year.
We are excited by the newly-announced client wins.
And while we will incur cost to convert these clients the wins should help us to marginally expand revenues.
Our U.K.
operation broke even for the quarter which is a 700-basis-point improvement from the same quarter in the prior year.
We made significant progress in reducing our operating footprint and headcount and we'll continue on improving our operating margins in these businesses.
In our joint venture businesses we had a significant new client win at IFDS U.K.
As a result of this win IFDS U.K.
will be providing a wealth management platform in the European marketplace which will leverage DST's BlueDoor technology.
This contract is a long-term contract with significant upfront costs for development and conversion.
We have begun the investment in people and technology to execute on this opportunity.
In IFDS L.P.
we're seeing increase in operating income that's a result of the conversion activities that took place in 2012.
Among our nonoperating assets in the third quarter we monetized approximately $110 million in investment assets which included $47.9 million from the sale of 700 000 shares of State Street Corporation and $9.6 million from the sale of 4 properties in our real estate portfolio.
We recognize the value that these dispositions provide to our shareholders and it remains an important part of our strategy.
We will continue to be disciplined with regards to the timing of sales of our nonoperating assets.
We also repurchased $66.6 million of DST common stock and paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share.
As of the end of the third quarter we have approximately $70 million remaining under our current share repurchase authorization.
Our capital allocation strategy will continue to revolve around investments in our businesses debt management dividends and share repurchases all with the goal of delivering enhanced value and returning capital to shareholders.
Underpinning our capital strategy is continuing cash flow from operations coupled with prudent [ph] monetization of non-operating assets in both our investment and real estate portfolios.
We believe our current balance sheet affords us significant flexibility in continuing to invest in our businesses while returning capital to our shareholders.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over the Ken Hager for detailed discussion of our third quarter financial results.
Thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $96.9 million or $2.23 per diluted share an increase of 12.8% from $85.9 million or $1.87 per share in the third quarter of 2012.
Adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share were $1.21 as compared to $0.96 in the third quarter of 2012.
The remainder of my comments will refer to our non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter rose year-over-year to $480.2 million an increase of 3.5% or $16.2 million.
Adjusted operating income increased by 21.4% to $81.8 million driven by a combination of increased revenues and effective cost management.
Consolidated margins were 17% in the quarter compared to 14.5% in the third quarter of 2012.
Let me now provide a breakdown of the quarterly results of each of our 3 operating segments.
Financial Services operating revenues increased by $6.6 million or 2.7% driven primarily by fund growth and positive market movements at ALPS increased subaccounts in Brokerage and higher participants in Retirement.
Registered accounts declined as a result of subaccounting conversions.
Financial Services software license fee revenues in the third quarter of 2013 were $7.9 million a decrease of $2.6 million as compared to the same period last year.
License revenues for us will vary from quarter-to-quarter.
The increase in Financial Services revenues contributed to a $6.2 million increase in income from operations.
Increased cost associated with a higher revenue base at ALPS and Brokerage were offset by cost containment activities in our other Financial Services businesses.
Our Healthcare Services segment reported a year-over-year increase in operating revenues of $9.5 million or 13.3% to $80.7 million driven by gains at both Argus and Health Solutions.
Argus recorded higher revenues from pharmacy claims processing and discount card services while Health Solutions saw increased revenues to new client conversions and organic growth primarily in our BPO business.
Healthcare Services income from operations increased by $5.9 million to $11.4 million during the third quarter with higher revenues from pharmacy claims processed partially offset by increased conversion costs associated with new clients and product development and stamping cost to support the higher revenue base.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues increased year-over-year by $900 000 from revenue growth in the U.K.
while North America revenues were relatively flat.
Overall operating income was $13 million an increase of $2.4 million or 22.6% from $10.6 million in the same quarter last year.
Facility consolidations and headcount reductions in the U.K.
contributed to $2.6 million in cost savings during the quarter which was partially offset by $1.4 million increased cost in North America associated with increased compensation and benefit costs.
Overall equity and earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates declined $600 000 to $2.1 million in the third quarter.
BFDS equity earnings were $1.8 million down $300 000 from lower account fee revenues and lower interest income.
IFDS U.K.
reported higher revenues from new clients.
However equity and losses increased by $400 000 from continued conversion and business development costs.
Finally new revenues associated with a client conversion in the fourth quarter of 2012 allowed IFDS L.P.
to realize $900 000 in equity earnings this quarter an increase of $500 000 from the third quarter of 2012.
Our income tax rate for the third quarter was 36.4% which is in line with our estimate for the full year and compares to 38.3% for the same quarter last year.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 43.5 million a decline of 2.5 million or 5.4% year-over-year as a result of share repurchases and the redemption for cash of the remaining convertible debentures.
During the quarter the company spent $66.6 million to repurchase 930 000 shares of common stock.
We are now including a full balance sheet in our release.
Cash declined in the quarter by $48 million to $129.9 million primarily from the use of cash to fund share repurchases and debt reductions.
The redemption of our outstanding convertible debentures resulted in a total cash outlay of $83.6 million.
We also paid off a secured real estate loan of $100 million.
In summary total debt declined in the quarter by $118.2 million to $833.4 million at September 30 2013.
I'm now going to turn the call back to Steve for his concluding remarks.
Great.
Thanks Ken.
So we made great strides as a business through the first 3 quarters of 2013 and we're entering the fourth quarter from a position of strength.
Across our industry we're seeing initial signs of renewed growth and optimism.
We're going to continue to focus on executing the fundamental points of our growth strategy namely: Retaining customers through exceptional service increasing the penetration of our products through adjacencies in new markets developing integrated solutions to grow our segments and expand our pipeline of opportunities for new and existing customers continuing to prudently monetize nonoperating assets and allocating capital to deliver shareholder value through reinvestment dividends and share repurchases.
I'm energized by our prospects and I look forward to updating you as we move forward.
At this point I like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Greg Smith of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the guidance on subaccount conversion expectations in '14.
So of that 4 million to 5 million how many is -- is it possible to break it out between retirement and non-retirement I guess? Yes we're not going to break that down Greg.
What I would tell you is and I know this is the discussion around the tax-advantaged accounts.
What we -- in that 4 million to 5 million number is obviously all the accounts that we are modeling right now.
And so -- and the update there is that not a lot has changed since the last call.
We're kind of still on the same track that we've been on and there's really no new information from our customers on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then of those accounts though is it mostly existing broker/dealers moving over subaccounting other blocks of mutual funds? Or is it new broker/dealers? Any other color you can kind of provide there? Yes it's mostly existing broker/dealers.
And as I've said Greg it's kind of interesting right? The broker/dealers went after the big blocks first then went ahead and moved those.
And that's the action that we've seen really since 2009.
We're now getting down to the smaller blocks which as I said makes our modeling a little bit more difficult.
And again we'll just keep you updated on a quarterly basis as to how we see it playing out.
But today that's the best we can give you relative to an estimate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- help me out with -- you had positive organic growth within your subaccount base negative within your registered accounts.
Is that simply just a function of how consumers are purchasing mutual fund these days? Or is there something else going on there? No that's exactly it.
Just a fundamental change in the distribution model of mutual funds.
You hit the nail in the head.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one last one for me.
You guys had a really really strong margin performance across-the-board in each of the segments.
Certainly relative to our expectation.
And it seems like there's sort of conflicting things going on here.
You're doing a great job managing costs where you need to but at the same time you're investing for growth in other areas.
So how should we kind of think about the margins? Just give us some help over the next couple of quarters given those kind of conflicting trends.
Yes well -- I think -- so let's take it by segment.
I think our Financial Services segment next year I think we're going to see -- continue to see some downside pressure because of the subaccounting that we talked about and some of the investments that we're making.
The good news is we've got a few businesses within that segment that have shown some nice growth.
Our ALPS business has grown quite strongly and we expect them to continue as has the Retirement and the subaccounting business.
In the Healthcare business as I mentioned we kind of feel like the margins that they produce this quarter should be sustainable and we expect to be able to run that business near the margins that we received -- that we produced this quarter next year.
In the Customer Communications segment I think we're going to see some downside pressure in the first half of next year as we spend to convert the big customers that we announced.
But we should see some improvement in the back half of the year.
So that's kind of how we're thinking about it Greg.
And I hope that's helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of George Mihalos of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Ryan Davis filling in for George.
I've got a couple of questions and I'll follow up on Greg's last question on margins.
I guess looking at the Healthcare margins they're pretty strong this quarter.
And then to next year you're kind of expecting the same.
Is there any expectation with the lost business coming there from the pharmacy side with the market review? Sure.
So let me -- as we talked about last quarter we're going to see the full impact of that revenue loss in 2015.
It will take 24 to 30 months for that business to convert out.
And so we expect we'll see some of that pressure next year but really the full impact of it will happen in 2015.
And so again that business is a little bit cyclical quarter-to-quarter but we're pretty confident that we can maintain.
And you're right we have had a tremendous margin pickup.
And again we're pretty confident there'll be a little bit of movement quarter-to-quarter.
But as we think about it year-over-year we expect that we'll be able to maintain the kinds of margins that we produced this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So looking forward like 2014 Financial Services and Customer Communications may be a little pressured but 2015 could be a more normalized scenario consolidated I guess so to speak? Ryan I wouldn't want to make a prediction at this point on 2015.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
And I guess is there any expectations on the number converting to the DST subaccounting platform the 4 million to 5 million in 2014? Or...
Yes.
Let me tell you my concern with putting that number out there at this point Ryan.
As I said only 15% of the 4 million to 5 million that we're expecting are committed.
And by committed we mean we've had a discussion with our customer the mutual fund or with the broker/dealer who said we want to move this block of accounts and we're thinking about this kind of a timeframe.
And so all of the noncommitted right now which is 85% of that 4 million to 5 million we don't know whether they're going to end up on our platform or another platform.
So I think we're a couple of quarters before we're going to be able to give you a read relative to what percentage of those accounts will end up on the DST platform.
It's a great question just at this point there's too many unknowns for me to put a number out there.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve could you review the backlog now where we stand in Retirement participants? I know there was a pretty strong backlog to be converted but then there was also -- a customer had reduced their scope.
Can you kind of talk about that net? Have we seen most of the conversions are we done there? Or would you expect some additional conversions here over the next several quarters? Yes we've got conversions Pete that are scheduled out through -- I think it's around mid-2015.
So about the next 6 quarters.
I don't have the number on top of my head but it -- so it's existing customers.
We had 1 customer that was coming off of 5 platforms and we're kind of -- we're working with that customer platform by platform.
That's the majority of the committed pipeline yet to convert.
And again I don't have that number right in front of us.
But you can expect that that -- that those conversions will continue.
So a couple of things there right? One is we still have the expense to convert those participants.
But we're also starting to see the revenue come through.
The other thing that will hopefully happen here is we'll bring on new customers.
And so I expect Pete that our pipeline of committed businesses hopefully will be able to run that out quite a bit.
And these conversions they take quite a long time.
It's not the kind of thing where you book revenue 1 quarter and 2 quarters or you book a customer and 2 quarters later you're seeing revenue.
These conversions typically take between 12 and 18 months to complete.
So I know that's not the exact number but that's kind of how it's playing out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess the answer -- what I'm trying to figure out participants were up 32% year-over-year but we would expect that the current backlog -- current known backlog would get us to a number higher than that over the next 6 quarters.
We still have -- that should still be one of the fastest-growing pieces of DST's business over the next 6 quarters right? So Pete that's a fair observation.
But here's the one thing that I warn you.
In the second quarter of every year we have a purge okay? And the purge is basically is -- it's inactive participant accounts.
So what happens is 401(k) plan somebody leaves the company and they roll their 401(k) balance over to an IRA.
We have to keep that participant account on our platform through year-end and through the tax reporting season.
Then in the second quarter we go in and we purge those accounts off of our platform.
And so we will see in the second quarter of next year we will see a number of participants go off of our platform.
Again that's the annual purge.
And so that's the lumpiness that you're going to see.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's fair.
And then within the IFDS U.K.
business you had a comment within the press release that indicated you expect to have a fairly high level of investment spending.
And I wasn't sure if I should infer that the IFDS U.K.
JV would be making losses for an indefinite period of time.
No that's not the correct assumption there.
So we do have a significant amount of investment that's going to happen.
As we said in the release we won a new significant customer long-term contract that gets us into the providing a wealth management platform to that marketplace which is actually quite exciting for us okay? A lot of that investment has been taking place.
We've been building out the systems and hiring people to go ahead and execute on that opportunity.
So that is [indiscernible] run rate is in the JV [ph] and what we haven't seen is any of the revenue.
And so we expect that next year the IFDS U.K.
joint venture you should see improved margins there.
Is that helpful? LLC Research Division</strong> That is helpful.
Then just my last question.
I know there's a lot of flux going on with Affordable Care and -- how do you expect that impacts your number of covered lives within Health Solutions over the next let's say year? Is there a way to kind of think about that? That's a hard one right? Because we're kind of one removed from the participants.
Here's what I would tell you.
We've got a great customer list in our Healthcare business and our customers are doing a very good job attracting new lives okay? And so that's why you see us growing.
We're just downstream from our customers.
So the good news is we've got great customers that are doing a good job.
The general trend be it Affordable Healthcare Act or the aging population the general trend is good and that's part of the reason we like the segment so much.
But I'd be hard-pressed to put numbers on it because it's really up to how well our customers do in attracting new business to their solution.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Wojs of Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess just on subaccounting again.
Just -- do you have any idea in terms of the per-account economics that you guys are assuming in your model? And maybe how that's compared to the accounts that has converted to subaccounting over the past couple of years? Yes we really don't get down to the level of per-account pricing.
Here's what I'd tell you.
The subaccounts come on to our platform at a reduced unit of revenue versus the direct mutual fund accounts.
And so the economics are not as attractive.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question is just more on the base registered accounts.
Are the economics on those accounts different than what's already been converting from registered to subaccounting over the last few years? No no.
The economics really haven't changed.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And I guess just on Financial Services you've done 3% to 4% -- about 3% growth the last couple of quarters which is a nice improvement.
I guess how do you guys think of growth there going forward? Should we think of low to mid-single digits as a sustainable rate? Or I guess how are you guys thinking about it? Yes I think that's a good target.
I think if we can continue to grow around 3% I think that will be good performance out of our management team and with our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on cash flow could we -- is there any opportunity to get just what cash flow from operations and -- what's for the quarter? Tim we don't have that information fully finalized yet.
So it'll come out in the Q.
Thank you.
That concludes the Q&amp;A portion of today's call.
I will now turn the call over to Steve Hooley for any additional or closing remarks.
Well great.
Well thank you very much for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you in the first quarter of 2014.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems' Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Well good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems' fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens who will provide some detail on our fourth quarter financial results following my prepared remarks.
As this is Gregg's first earning call I'd like to take a minute to introduce him.
Gregg has been with DST since 1996 and has served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer for the past 14 years.
He's intimately familiar with our operating plan and the execution of our ongoing financial strategy.
Gregg's also played a key role in recent noncore asset monetizations real estate sales and the breakout of our Healthcare segment.
I'm looking forward to working closely with Gregg.
On behalf of DST I also want to wish Ken Hager all the best in his retirement which was effective with Gregg's appointment.
Ken served DST for 29 years and is responsible for a significant number of accomplishments for this company over his tenure.
Moving to our results.
And before I talk about the quarter I want to spend a minute on our full year 2013 results.
We're pleased to bring 2013 to a close with solid operating performance.
For full year 2013 we reported an increase in operating revenues of 3.3%.
Operating income improved $38.8 million or 14% as compared to full year 2012.
Our non-GAAP diluted EPS was $4.57 for full year 2013 as compared to $3.98 for full year 2012 an improvement of $0.59 per share or 14.8%.
These results reflect our focus on core operations coupled with continued successful execution of our strategic plan.
Importantly in my mind we saw operating improvements in all 3 operating segments of our business and are well positioned to maintain those gains going into 2014.
I will now turn my attention to the fourth quarter results.
Revenues were up 2.7% year-over-year for the quarter and operating income increased by $11.6 million or 15.1% over fourth quarter 2012.
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.34 as compared to $1.19 in the fourth quarter of 2012 an increase of 12.6%.
From a segment perspective in Financial Services ALPS' operating revenues solidly increased over the prior year quarterly -- quarter primarily due to fund growth at existing clients and positive market movement.
In our Brokerage business a combination of both new client conversions and organic growth contributed to increased revenues.
We continue to see increases in operating income in this business due to leverage gained from scale.
In our core recordkeeping business we saw a double-digit increase in our total aggregate mutual fund and subaccounts for the full year 2013.
This 10% increase was driven by 6.1 million in new client conversions and organic growth of 4.9 million though the gain was partially offset by 3.7 million of conversions off the DST platform.
Registered accounts decreased in total by 4.5 million over the year with the primary driver being conversions to subaccounting.
For full year 2013 subaccounting conversions were in line with our projections of between 5 million and 6 million with 5.1 million registered accounts converting to subaccounts.
We continue to anticipate between 4 million and 5 million registered accounts may convert to subaccounting during 2014.
We're pleased to report that our Health Services segment and -- had substantial operating margin growth increasing from 17% in the fourth quarter of 2012 to 22% this most recent quarter.
This is consistent with our estimates of achieving mid-teens margins on a full year basis.
The expansion during the fourth quarter is partially driven by expected seasonality in license sales service quality fees earned and further driven by the improvements in our core operations some of which is from investments which we've made over the last 3 years.
Notwithstanding the solid quarter we expect margins in this segment to average in the mid-teens for full year 2014.
As we look at Customer Communications segment for the quarter we have continued to focus on fully transitioning the 3 new clients we signed in the previous quarter and servicing our existing clients.
Revenue and operating income decreased slightly during the quarter primarily due to lower volumes.
Our North American business reported operating margins for the quarter which were consistent with the same quarter in the prior year.
Our U.K.
business reported an operating loss of $1.2 million during the fourth quarter a decrease of $2.2 million as compared to the prior year.
As previously discussed our Customer Communications business have a high concentration of fixed costs.
The decrease in operating revenues predominantly in our direct marketing business in the U.K.
negatively impacted our profitability for the quarter.
We have been and will continue to focus on improving our margins in this business through managing and rightsizing our operating footprint.
We continue to have some choppy quarters in our performance but I'm confident that our measures in this regard are stabilizing the business and will further improve results over time.
In our joint venture businesses we are experiencing good year-over-year growth in revenues and accounts processed which are being offset by the conversion costs for new clients.
IFDS U.K.
have extended their current contract with one of their largest customers where they provide administration processing and technology.
This new contract also expands these services to include DST's BlueDoor technology as part of a wealth management platform for the U.K.
market.
The integration is currently in process and will continue through 2014 and beyond.
We have been investing in people and technology to execute on this opportunity overseas and these costs have been reflected in our operating results in the IFDS joint ventures.
IFDS Canada has also seen new client growth with their most recent win expected to convert approximately 650 000 new accounts by the end of first quarter 2014.
The underlying fundamentals of these businesses remain strong and we maintain a positive outlook for operating income growth at IFDS moving forward.
With respect to our nonoperating assets monetizations remained active for the fourth quarter.
DST monetized approximately $110 million in investment assets which included $60.6 million from the sale of 857 000 shares of State Street Corporation $34.7 million from private equity funds and other securities and $500 000 from the sale of real estate portfolio assets.
Prudent monetization and asset dispositions are central to our ongoing strategy and we will continue to capitalize in 2014 on opportunities as we -- that we see with respect to our nonoperating assets.
We were also active on the share repurchase front in the fourth quarter buying back 847 500 shares of DST common stock for $70.8 million.
After the repurchase of these shares we have reached our limit on the current program and have received board authorization for a new $250 million share repurchase plan to continue opportunistically buying back shares in the future.
We believe these repurchases are a prudent and effective way to return capital to our shareholders.
As we did in the first 3 quarters of 2013 we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share during the fourth quarter and the board has recently declared a $0.30 per share dividend for the first quarter of 2014.
We will continue to make strategic investments in our businesses manage our debt carefully and remain committed to returning capital to shareholders in the most efficient way.
We believe our current balance sheet affords us significant flexibility in meeting these goals.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Gregg for a detailed discussion of our fourth quarter financial results.
Thanks Steve and thanks for the introduction earlier in your remarks.
This is an exciting time to be at DST and I've already hit the ground running in my new role as CFO.
I look forward to helping contribute to the company's future successes and focusing on enhancing shareholder return in this new capacity.
With that said let's turn to the numbers.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $84 million or $1.97 per diluted share.
This is an increase from the $37.9 million of net income or $0.82 per diluted share reported in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The most significant difference between the 2 quarters can be attributed to a goodwill impairment charge taken in the fourth quarter of 2012 associated with our Customer Communications U.K.
operations.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP earnings per share this quarter was $1.34 as compared to $1.19 in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our non-GAAP earnings per share increased $0.15 or 12.6% over the prior year quarter.
The remainder of my comments will focus on our non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter rose to $500.1 million an increase of $13.1 million or 2.7% over the prior year quarter.
Adjusted operating income increased by 15.1% to $88.6 million.
This improvement was driven by a combination of increased revenues and effective cost management.
Consolidated operating margins were 18% in the quarter compared to 16% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
At the segment level Financial Services operating revenues increased by $7 million or 2.8%.
This was driven primarily by higher revenues at ALPS Brokerage and BlueDoor which were partially offset by lower revenues at Global Solutions and our U.S.
recordkeeping business from a decline in registered accounts as a result of subaccounting conversions.
The overall revenue growth in our Financial Services segment along with effective cost-containment initiatives resulted in a $7.3 million or 14.5% increase in the segment's income from operations of $57.7 million.
In our Healthcare Services segment we reported an increase in operating revenues of $11.9 million or 15.1%.
Our Healthcare Services segment closed the quarter with $90.6 million of revenue which reflects improvements at both Argus and Health Solutions.
Argus recorded higher revenues from an increase in pharmacy claims processed increased network fees and increased discount card services while Health Solutions saw increased revenues from new BPO clients as well as from new exchange licenses.
As Steve mentioned we have historically experienced seasonality associated with license revenues so we largely expected the fourth quarter revenue increases in the Healthcare Services segment.
The Healthcare Services segment also experienced an increase in cost and expenses of $5.4 million from higher product development costs and higher staffing costs to support the increase in new client volumes.
For the quarter Healthcare Services income from operations increased by $6.2 million or 45.6% to $19.8 million.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues decreased by $4.3 million largely due to lower volumes in both the U.K.
and North America.
The decline in revenue was partially offset by a $1.3 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expense resulting in an overall operating income of $9.6 million which is a decrease of $2.9 million or 23.2% from the same quarter last year.
Overall equity in earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates was $4.1 million in the fourth quarter.
This represents a decline of $4.5 million from the prior year quarter.
BFDS equity in earnings were $2.1 million which is a decline of $500 000 from the prior year quarter due to lower account fee revenues.
Our IFDS equity in earnings was $800 000 a decrease of $4 million from the prior year quarter.
IFDS had higher processing revenues primarily as a result of an increase in shareholder accounts.
On a full year basis our international shareholder accounts increased 5.3% to 21.8 million accounts.
However the IFDS results reflect continued development costs associated with the creation of a new wealth management service offering in the U.K.
and additional costs related to new customer contracts.
Collectively this resulted in an overall decline in equity in earnings for the quarter.
Our income tax rate for the fourth quarter was 38.2% as compared to 33.4% for the same quarter last year.
The main driver of the higher effective tax rate is a change in the mix of domestic and international taxable earnings along with lower foreign tax credits and additional international valuation allowances.
On a full year basis our 2013 effective tax rate was 36.6% which is 0.4% higher than the full year 2012 tax rate.
Looking forward we believe the full year 2014 effective tax rate will increase to approximately 37%.
However we will most likely see quarterly variations of plus or minus 2% throughout the year depending on the timing of domestic and international income sources.
During the fourth quarter we had $38.1 million of capital expenditures which was a $10.5 million increase over the fourth quarter of 2012.
On a full year basis our capital expenditures of $106.7 million was in line with our capital plan and was essentially flat with our 2012 capital expenditures.
Looking forward to 2014 we believe our capital expenditures will continue to be in line with 2013 with the exception of 2 specific items.
The first is a refresh of our generator plant at our data center and the second is the acquisition of specific equipment for a new client that we've announced in the Customer Communications segment.
Collectively these 2 items will increase our capital expenditures by an additional $35 million in 2014.
We view these as isolated items and do not believe they should be viewed as a new norm in terms of our annual capital expenditures.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 42.6 million shares a reduction of 7.6% year-over-year as a result of share repurchases.
During the fourth quarter the company completed its authorized share repurchase plan by repurchasing 847 500 shares of common stock for $70.8 million.
We ended the year with $62.5 million of cash and $683 million of debt.
We reduced debt by $150.4 million in the fourth quarter and $328.6 million during the full year.
A portion of this decline resulted from the decision during the fourth quarter to repatriate $62 million of cash held at our international subsidiaries.
This cash was then utilized to pay down our outstanding debt.
I would like to conclude by saying that as DST's new CFO I'm not only excited about the company's fourth quarter operating results but I'm also excited by the strength of the company.
With our strong operating cash flow available borrowing capacity and nonoperating assets available for monetization we are well positioned to enhance shareholder value through a combination of share repurchases dividends and investments in growth opportunities.
I'll now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great.
Thanks Gregg.
DST continued its positive momentum to close out 2013 on a high note.
We're looking ahead to an exciting 2014 and we'll work hard to continue the great progress we've made across all of our segments.
We continue to execute on the fundamental points of our growth strategy which include retaining clients through exceptional service increasing penetration in our products through adjacencies and new markets developing integrated solutions to grow our segments and expand our pipeline of opportunities for new and existing clients continuing to prudently monetize nonoperating assets and allocating capital to deliver shareholder value through reinvestment dividends and share repurchases.
The coming year certainly looks bright for DST and I look forward to updating you on our continued progress.
At this point I'd like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> This is Rayna Kumar for David Togut.
Could you please quantify your margin potential in your Financial Services segment for 2014? We don't actually project margins on a forward basis.
We're very pleased with the results in 2013 margins in that business.
And those margins in the Financial Services segment have been relatively stable for the last few years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well could you talk a little bit about your cost-containment plans for '14 then? Well sure.
I mean across all of our businesses -- and again I want to emphasize here that we view ourselves as an operating company.
And part of that -- a large part of that is making sure that we're prudently managing our assets both human and financial.
And you've seen margin expansion this year particularly if you look at our Healthcare business.
We've made a lot of progress in '13.
I don't expect we'll make the same level of improvement in 2014 because the bar has been raised.
But we'll continue to prudently manage all of our assets and that includes an intense focus on cost containment across the company.
Research Division</strong> Given the 15% increase in your Healthcare revenue in the fourth quarter do you think that mid-teen growth is sustainable through '14? No.
Again we talked about the drivers in the fourth quarter and the fact that that's typically a very strong quarter for us.
We think there'll be some growth in our Healthcare business but we don't think it will be on a revenue basis in the mid-teens for '14.
Research Division</strong> What's your anticipated pace of selling noncore assets? Well again we don't project forward plans there.
We are opportunistic as it relates to our balance sheet.
That includes all of our nonoperating assets and the ways in which we return capital to shareholders.
So again I think we've been pretty consistent for the last 8 quarters now.
Again we'll continue to opportunistically work on that portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can just sneak one last question in there.
What's -- could you just talk a little bit about your outlook on IFDS? Given the new client conversions there seems to be a mismatch between revenue and expenses.
So could you just talk a little bit about how we should view IFDS in '14? Yes sure.
That's a very good question.
And you're right there is a mismatch.
We actually talked to it in the release.
We've got a few things going on at IFDS.
We talked about in Canada we had a large client conversion a year ago.
We won another big customer and that conversion is scheduled to happen here in the first quarter.
So we had the expense to get that conversion readied and bring the people on and get the systems in position but we hadn't seen any revenue.
That revenue will start to come online in the first quarter.
In our U.K.
operation similar story.
We've had significant new customer wins and we've been converting those wins throughout 2013 and into 2014.
And then the third thing is both Gregg and I mentioned the new win that we had last -- that was announced last quarter.
And we just announced another new win with one of our largest customers in the U.K.
where we're going to expand the relationship to include building out a wealth management platform for the U.K.
marketplace.
We've seen a significant amount of expense around that and have not seen the revenue.
And so the expense -- we booked the expense as incurred but the structure of these contracts caused us to have to defer revenue until certain project milestones are met.
We expect that we're going to begin to meet those project milestones here on the first quarter of 2014.
And so we should see significant revenue improvement and I would say significant operating margins out of IFDS during 2014.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Given your market share position in both the mutual fund shareholder recordkeeping business as well as subaccounting can you talk about some of the trends you're seeing in terms of organic account growth? Certainly it appears that we did see organic account growth in mutual funds and subaccounting as well as in 401(k).
But can you talk a little bit historically or maybe some of the intraquarter or early 2014 trends that you're seeing? And do you think the foundation is set for organic account growth overall for the mutual industry this year? So Pete in the -- if we talk specifically about '40 Act mutual funds I'm still not confident that we're going to see much organic growth.
I think we'll see negative 1% to 1% which is what we've historically talked about.
And the reason is the way these products are being purchased has shifted fundamentally right? Today they're being bought predominantly through brokerage accounts.
And so we do think we'll see organic growth in our subaccounting business okay.
And we think that organic growth should be in line with what we saw this year.
We -- again the other thing on the mutual fund side is we believe this year there'll be 4 million to 5 million direct accounts that get subaccounted and we saw the 5.1 million decline last year.
So I think Pete if I step back at the big trends the way mutual funds in the U.S.
are being purchased has shifted on a very fundamental basis.
We do not see significant organic growth on our direct book of mutual fund accounts.
We do think we'll see organic growth in the retirement space -- sorry in the subaccounting space.
If I talk about the retirement space we do expect to see some organic growth there.
But again we talked about it last quarter.
I'd caution that during the second quarter we have a purge of effectively nonactive accounts that takes place.
So we have some conversions that are going to take place in the retirement space from deals that have been previously won and some amount of organic growth which will be offset by the second quarter purge.
I know it's a long-winded answer to a short question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
But fair enough.
And then similarly on the Healthcare side can you talk about the last 4 or 5 months in terms of covered -- additions to covered lives potentially from universal health care or the expansion of the health care mandate? Yes.
And we talk about this on every call.
And the challenge is for us to tell you exactly how much growth is driven by the Affordable Health Care Act how much growth is driven by the aging population so very hard for us to make a 1-to-1 connection.
Here's what I would tell you.
We like the segment for a number of reasons.
We like the footprint and the solution that we have.
And we believe there's going to be growth there be it due to the aging population or the Affordable Health Care Act.
We had good organic growth in 2013 and I expect again we'll have good organic growth in 2014.
Remember our -- we're kind of one removed from the ultimate customer here.
We're lucky in that we have a great lineup of customers but they need to go out and get people on to their systems and sign people up.
And that process is taking place throughout the year but is particularly active during the fourth quarter and first quarter of any given year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Got you okay.
And then last question.
Last quarter you announced a very large customer on the Customer Communications side.
Can you remind us of the conversion timeframe? Is that something that should be starting to benefit DST in the first quarter of '15? Yes sure.
I'm going to ask Gregg to go ahead and take that question.
And Gregg this is around the large Customer Communications client.
So Pete last quarter we announced actually the addition of 3 new customers in the Customer Communications segment.
One of those is very significant.
We project all 3 of those customers coming on the latter half of 2014.
And when fully in production we think that they'll probably drive directionally 400 million extra packages per year for the organization.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And so on the current package base that's high single-digit type growth is that right? It is.
But at the same time keep in mind that we're experiencing some volume declines by existing customers as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's right.
And those -- so those 3 new customers those were all in the domestic business is that correct? That's correct.
Your next question comes from the line of George Mihalos of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So encouraged to see again that only 4 million or 5 million accounts will be converting from registered to subaccounting in '14.
I think on the last call you had indicated that the commitment rate was about 15%.
Just wondering if you have any sort of update as to the pace of those conversions and the portion that you expect to retain.
Yes George.
We are still below 20% of what we put in what we call a committed bucket.
And that means either the broker-dealer or our customer has come to us told us which block of accounts is going to move and given us a date that they'd like to do that.
So again we're still kind of in the early innings here for 2014.
The amount that we'll retain again I think it's too early for us to predict.
In the past couple of years given the growth in our subaccounting business we retained roughly 20% of the accounts that have moved over.
And if I had to plug a number in right now as an estimate I'd say that's probably in the range.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I know you don't want to get into specifics on the margin front but just kind of looking at the performance in the Financial segment you've been at sort of 23% 24% adjusted margins now for a while.
Is there any reason why that would decelerate in '14 vis-a-vis additional investment or anything like that? I don't think we'll see a big deceleration.
There are still some headwinds in the core business.
But again I think we're -- the team is doing a good job of managing those.
Again we don't want to project forward.
But I think the Financial Services segment has been relatively stable and my expectation is that we'll be able to maintain that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just last question for me on the output side.
Your outlook or thoughts about returning to positive margins or positive EBIT in the U.K.
business should we be expecting that next year? Yes.
I want to -- thanks for bringing up the output business.
We didn't -- I'm not pleased with the fourth quarter that we had.
But I don't want it to overshadow the fact that in both of those businesses both the North American business and in the U.K.
business we had very solid improvement year-over-year.
And so we do expect in the U.K.
business to see further improvement there.
Again their business tends to be -- I think we said choppy.
Their business and revenue particularly tends to be a little bit choppy.
But we do expect George that we're going to see continuing improvement there.
And again I want to make sure that the results of the fourth quarter don't overshadow what was really a very successful year in both our North American and the U.K.
Customer Communications businesses.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Koning of Baird.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just -- I guess one more question just on the margin profile less on the pace of improvement or anything more just on the mix of the business lines.
The registered account business obviously as registered accounts go to subaccounting you lose those accounts.
That has a negative impact on margins the way we understand it.
I'm just wondering ALPS and subaccounting growth are those 2 pretty nicely accretive to margins and that's why as those 2 kind of offset you end up with reasonably stable margins over time? I guess the question is more what helps and hurts the mix of margins across the different units within Financial Services.
Yes -- and David it is kind of a mix of businesses and it's part of the reason we've been able to maintain relatively stable margins at the top line of the segment.
We've talked in the past about ALPS.
ALPS has really attractive growth rates and margins that are in the high teens right? And so as we grow there and maintain those margins that certainly helps.
The subaccounting margins are attractive.
But the difference that we've talked about in the past is the actual revenue unit for a direct account versus a subaccount.
The subaccounting revenue unit is quite a bit lower.
Margins are not that different however between the 2.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay that makes sense.
And then -- I guess the balance sheet has pretty massively improved over the course of the year given both the cash flow and that monetization being the 2 big drivers of where you're taking cash in from.
I think you ended last year over 2x trailing EBITDA if you just look at net debt and now you're at 1.4x.
And I'm just wondering what your -- I guess where could that go if you saw an attractive acquisition or just -- could you just cover up and buy stock tomorrow just kind of clean up the $250 million quickly? I guess what's your debt comfort? Well I'd tell you that we're very comfortable with the debt level that we're at.
We have again a stated part of the strategy continuing the buyback paying dividends and reducing our debt.
We're comfortable with the debt level David.
We'd be comfortable if it goes lower.
And clearly we'd be comfortable if it were to move up.
And we could see it moving up if there were an opportunity that we saw from a growth perspective to invest.
So we're not going to project where the debt should be other than to tell you that we're comfortable and the board's comfortable with the level of debt that we're carrying now.
And it could move down and we'd be happy or we'd be comfortable if it were to move up.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then I guess finally just -- as we do look at some of the assets on the balance sheet and you've gone through a lot of monetizations the last several quarters now is the value that we look at for the real estate and for some of the investments materially higher than what it's stated on the balance sheet for? Is there any way for us to think about that? David this is Gregg Givens.
I would tell you that the investments for the most part if they're publicly traded equities they're carried at fair value.
If they're not publicly traded and we have a couple of those they're generally carried at the lower cost of market.
So there can be a difference there between what we're carrying and that fair value.
On the real estate once again that's one that we carry at a lower cost or market as well.
So there could be a little bit of difference there in the carrying value on our balance sheet versus what the fair value is.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And yes I understand that.
I'm just wondering if you think there's a material difference between the 2.
Just so that we know over time if there could be limited or significant gains kind of what the range could be.
Well look I'm not going to speculate on what the fair value of some of these underlying assets are.
They're on our balance sheet.
We provide quite a bit of detail in the 10-K as to what they are and so forth.
So you have to make your own assessment on that going forward.
That does conclude the Q&amp;A portion of today's call.
I will now return turn the call to Steve Hooley for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you.
I'm pleased with our focus on improving core operations in 2013 where we saw significant gains in operating efficiency.
We plan to continue that focus in 2014.
Thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
That does conclude the DST Systems' Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly report filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
Good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens.
I will start with an overview of the quarter and then will turn it over to Gregg for some additional detail on our financial results.
We're off to a solid start in 2014 delivering another quarter of positive operating performance and progress on our strategic initiatives.
We've been focused on making targeted investments to increase our recurring revenue and strengthen our business across key verticals while continuing to focus on daily execution.
These efforts are achieving results that are right in line with our plan.
For the first quarter of 2014 we reported consolidated net income of $100.4 million up from $93.2 million for the first quarter of 2013.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income for the quarter was $47.5 million versus $45 million for the same period last year.
Adjusted consolidated operating revenues were $505.2 million an increase of $16 million or 3.3% compared to last year; and consolidated income from operations increased by 2.3% year-over-year to $72.7 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share increased by $0.13 from $0.99 in the first quarter of last year to $1.12 this quarter.
The strong momentum we continue to experience across our 3 operating segments is a testament to the execution and focus of our teams.
Our Financial Services segment continues to deliver solid results that reflect our focus on driving organic growth through our customer relationships.
Segment operating revenues were up by 5.6% year-over-year driven by increased revenues at ALPS our asset gathering and asset management business as well as growth at DST Brokerage Solutions.
Our business investments at ALPS and DST Brokerage Solutions in particular have been paying off driving increased revenues from new client conversions and existing client growth that were partially offset by cost outlays required to support those higher revenues.
Revenue increases in Financial Services were partially offset by declines in mutual fund registered shareowner account processing for our core record-keeping business as subaccounting conversions continue to result in lower numbers of registered accounts.
Consistent with prior guidance we expect approximately 4 million to 5 million of registered accounts to convert to subaccounting during 2014.
While the core record-keeping businesses experienced declines our total mutual fund shareowner accounts increased by 1.2 million during the quarter to 98.1 million.
In addition we've been successful in reducing costs consistent with the decline in volume of registered accounts.
Our Financial Services operating margin for the quarter of 16.4% declined marginally over the prior year.
Moving now to our Health Services segment.
We are pleased with the first quarter performance of this business which continues to perform at a high level.
We delivered positive results across the board including a 15% increase in adjusted operating revenues.
Higher membership levels led to a 7.5% increase in pharmacy claims paid during the quarter.
We also saw higher revenues through the expansion of client relationships including new discount card services new full-service clients converting to our DST Health Solutions processing platform and growth in both membership and transaction volumes among our existing clients.
These gains are partially due to the positive impact of the Affordable Care Act.
And finally we benefited from the recognition of certain project and milestone-related revenues.
Our Healthcare segment operating margins remained strong at 12.7% compared to 12% last year.
We are confident that our Healthcare businesses are positioned to capitalize on exciting market opportunities and that we can continue to grow in this vertical.
Our Customer Communications segment continues to make progress although we have still not reached the level of consistency we would like.
Operating revenues decreased $7.7 million year-over-year primarily due to headwinds experienced by our North American business.
Our North American operation declined due to previously announced client losses and organic declines among existing clients as well as negative foreign currency impacts from our Canadian business while revenues at our U.K.
business increased by 1.9% due to new client growth and positive currency impacts.
Operating income and margins were down in each region and in the segment as a whole.
We continue to work to achieve our objectives for this business and position our Customer Communications segment for long-term profitability.
As previously announced we continue to work on the implementation of significant new business which is now expected to begin generating revenues in early 2015.
We are focused on improving margins and identifying opportunities to reduce costs and increase efficiency.
While our results continue to be impacted by headwinds in the print industry including print suppression and e-presentment along with a high concentration of fixed cost we remain committed to strengthening this segment's performance over time.
In our joint venture businesses BFDS delivered earnings consistent with prior year as lower shareowner processing revenues associated with reduced level of accounts were offset by higher revenue from other ancillary services.
IFDS experienced growth in revenues and accounts serviced which continue to be offset by the conversion costs for new clients and our investment in new product development which is vital as we continue to position this business for the future.
Last year we announced that IFDS U.K.
signed a new customer and extended its current contract with one of their largest customers.
The integration of these customers has begun and is delivering results.
Once fully converted IFDS will be providing administration processing and technology and an expansion of services which will include DST's BlueDoor system as part of a wealth management platform for the U.K.
market.
The conversion of these customers will occur in stages over the next few years.
During the quarter we monetized approximately $109.4 million in nonoperating investments including $50.2 million from sales of marketable securities and $59.1 million in distributions from private equity funds and other investments.
Prudent monetization and asset dispositions remain a critical part of our ongoing strategy and we expect to continue pursuing these avenues opportunistically throughout the balance of the year.
Our capital allocation strategy will continue to balance investments in our business reducing debt and returning capital to shareholders.
We expect to continue to return capital in the form of regular quarterly dividends.
Our capital allocation strategy has allowed us to reduce our debt levels by over 35% since March 31 2013.
In January of 2014 our board authorized the 250 million share repurchase plan with no specified timeframe required for repurchases.
Given certain agreements with the Argyros Group which were announced on March 24 we did not repurchase any shares under this current share repurchase plan for the first quarter and have determined not to repurchase any additional shares under this plan in the near term.
Before turning the call over to Gregg I want to briefly review the key points of the agreement that DST entered into with the Argyros Group.
Under the agreement DST has entered into a two-step process to help facilitate the disposition of a substantial portion of the Argyros Group's common stock ownership in DST.
In order to implement the Argyros disposition and subject to certain conditions DST will facilitate a registered secondary offering of $450 million of DST stock owned by the Argyros Group.
Concurrent with the closing of the secondary offering DST will repurchase $200 million of DST common stock owned by the Argyros Group.
The full terms of this agreement can be found in our SEC filings.
With that I want to turn the call over to Gregg for a more detailed discussion of our first quarter financial results.
Thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $100.4 million or $2.37 per diluted share an increase from the $93.2 million or $2.04 per share in the first quarter of 2013.
The increase can primarily be attributed to strong performance by our Healthcare Services segment as well with higher investment income resulting from our monetization of investment assets.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP earnings per share this quarter was $1.12 as compared to $0.99 in the first quarter of 2013.
The remainder of my comments will focus on our adjusted non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter rose year-over-year to $505.2 million an increase of 3.3% or $16 million.
Adjusted operating income increased by 2.3% to $72.7 million primarily due to higher operating revenues which were partially offset by higher operating cost incurred to support the new business as well as investments in new business initiatives.
Consolidated operating margins were 14.4% in the quarter which is consistent with the 14.5% consolidated operating margin in the first quarter of 2013.
At the segment level Financial Services operating revenues increased by $13.6 million or 5.6%.
This was driven primarily by increased revenues at ALPS and DST Brokerage Solutions.
Financial Services income from operations increased $700 000 or 1.7% over the prior year quarter.
We had higher operating costs to support our revenue growth as well as higher costs associated with new business initiatives.
Excluding the effects of deferred compensation costs the Financial Services operating margin was 16.7% in the quarter which is a decrease from the 18.8% adjusted operating margin in the first quarter of 2013.
The reduced operating margin is primarily a result of increased cost incurred to further enhance and improve our systems and service offerings.
Our Healthcare Services segment reported a $12 million or 15% year-over-year increase in operating revenues to $92 million.
The increase in revenues resulted from higher processing volumes as well as recognizing certain project and milestone-related revenues most of which were related to conversions and implementations.
Although we are happy with the revenue gains in our Healthcare Services segment we do not expect the growth in the conversion and implementation revenue to continue at this rate for the remainder of the year.
The increase in our processing revenues was driven by higher Medicare and Medicaid members resulting in greater levels of pharmacy claims paid and continued growth in our discount card services.
We also saw benefits from assisting clients with the Affordable Care Act which has contributed to increased membership and increased medical claim transaction volumes as well as new full-service clients that have or are converting to DST's medical claims processing platform.
Healthcare Services income from operations increased by $2.1 million to $11.7 million during the first quarter.
The higher revenues previously discussed were partially offset by increased staffing costs associated with the higher processing volumes and increased implementation costs associated with converting the new business and implementing new software systems.
For the quarter the Healthcare Services segment had an operating margin of 12.7% as compared to 12% in the first quarter of 2013.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues decreased year-over-year by $7.7 million largely due to previously announced client losses and the effect of a client moving certain print production in-house in 2014.
These decreases were partially offset by favorable foreign currency movements in our U.K.
business.
Overall operating income was $17.4 million a decrease of $1.8 million from the same quarter last year reflecting lower revenues in our North America business and higher costs incurred to support new customer work in our U.K.
business.
The first quarter operating margin for North America was 13.5% which is in line with the 13.6% we had in 2013.
In the U.K.
our operating margin was 3% in 2014 which is a decrease from the 4.1% operating margin we had in the prior year quarter.
Our interest expense declined by 31% in the quarter primarily from lower average outstanding debt balances while our other nonoperating income benefited from the absence of a $6.6 million foreign currency translation loss that was recorded in the first quarter of 2013.
Overall equity in earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates decreased by $200 000 to $5.4 million in the first quarter.
BFDS equity in earnings were $1.1 million which is consistent with the prior year quarter.
Equity in earnings at IFDS increased by 11% to $2.1 million primarily from higher revenues from increased account service and reimbursements received for client conversion costs associated with previously announced new wealth management clients.
Increased revenues at IFDS were partially offset by conversion-related expenses and the absence of earnings from an investment that was sold by IFDS in the second quarter of 2013.
Our income tax rate for the first quarter was 36.8% and is in line with our full year estimate of 37%.
The primary reason for the tax rate increasing from the prior year quarter is a higher mix of domestic earnings.
Keep in mind that on a quarterly basis we can have variations of plus or minus 2% as a result of the mix of domestic and international income sources.
During the first quarter we had $26 million of capital expenditures.
On a full year basis we believe our capital expenditures will approximate $130 million.
Turning to our share count.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 42.4 million shares a reduction of 7% year-over-year as a result of share repurchases throughout 2013.
We did not repurchase any shares during the first quarter of 2014.
As Steve discussed we will repurchase $200 million of shares in conjunction with the Argyros Group transactions.
At the end of the first quarter we had $140.1 million of cash and $669.3 million of debt.
The debt is comprised of approximately $395 million of fixed-rate debt and $275 million of variable-rate debt.
At the end of the first quarter we also had over $600 million of availability under our revolving credit agreements.
Our balance sheet strength gives us flexibility to enhance shareholder value through a combination of investing in our business share repurchases and dividends.
I'll now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great.
Thanks Gregg.
Before we open the call for questions I want to reiterate our excitement about the progress and momentum we've carried into 2014.
Our businesses are operating at high levels and delivering results through the focused execution of our strategic initiatives.
I'd also like to take a moment to thank our management teams and employees around the world for their hard work on behalf of our clients in helping to enhance value for our shareholders.
I look forward to updating you as we continue to execute against these objectives.
And at this point we'll go ahead and open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann with Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> So on -- within the Healthcare segment it sounds like the Affordable Care Act benefit was primarily around some consulting revenues some system upgrade revenues but I do see you had a sequential increase in covered lives.
Do you expect to see some additional benefit in the second quarter? Or are your comments suggesting that that 15% growth rate in the first quarter is going to be probably the highest of the year? Does that suggest you don't expect additional follow-through in growth in covered lives? Yes.
So Pete you hit the nail right on the head relative to where we saw the benefit.
It was in consulting.
It was in system delivery and additional lives and in activity.
And the majority of the -- of new lives come on to our customers' platforms during the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
So we do typically see in the first quarter our strongest quarter.
And you're correct we do not expect to see a continued growth rate.
We're very pleased with the 15%.
I think it's very clear that our customers are doing a great job with their customers but we don't expect that to carry for the rest of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then on the retirement-defined contribution side can you remind me -- for a period of time there you were disclosing kind of a contracted backlog number and I noticed some of those conversions have occurred.
Could you remind me what the contracted backlog looks like on defined contribution and how you would characterize the selling environment or if there's been some mergers and acquisitions in that space and how you anticipate that market evolving over the next year? Yes.
So -- and I think we will keep the comments really to this year Pete 2014 because we get to -- you get into '15 and '16 and as you've pointed out here there is movement.
So we expect this year to convert directionally 400 000 participants onto the platform.
And again this is previously sold business with conversions that are just -- have been lined up right as we've talked about.
Our 401(k) business is probably the most difficult conversion that we have across all of our businesses.
They're complex and they take a lot of time.
So that's what we expect.
I mean the other thing that I would just remind you for the third quarter here and everyone is during the second quarter we have the annual purge of accounts.
And so we do expect that we'll see our reported number of accounts will decline during the second quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then last question I'll get back in the queue.
It looked like assets under management administration related to ALPS were up very very nicely.
I'm sure there's some market component there but can you talk about -- or help us think about market action versus net flows to the ALPS products last year and -- so we can kind of think about how they might grow this year? Yes.
So you're right there's 2 components.
Well first of all we're very happy with the growth that ALPS are doing a good job there.
And actually that's one of the areas Pete where we're making some investment.
We think there's a good opportunity for the company in that space and so we have been investing there.
And we're seeing the results of that investment.
They are the 2 components: both market action and new flows.
We don't break it out but I would tell you that they are attracting new money.
And I -- again if I had to put a number on it Pete I would say that roughly 40% of the growth is tied to market action last year.
And again it's your guess what it will be this year.
Your next question comes from the line of David Togut with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> There seems to be a thematic shift I think from last year this year.
Last year you talked a lot Steve about streamlining cost reduction.
It seems like the focus this year is a lot more on investing to grow.
So if I have that correct can you give me some context on how you're thinking about streamlining versus investing? Where are we in the streamlining process? And is there more operating leverage left in the business for the balance of this year and looking into '15? That's a great question David.
And I kind of go back to we're an operating business right.
And so that's what our roots are.
That's what we do and so I would tell you the streamlining and optimization is an ongoing process.
I think the teams did a very good job last year.
In the Financial Services sector we kind of stopped the slide of -- on an operating income percentage basis and we had a gain for the first time in a number of years.
We pretty dramatically improved the profit margins in our Healthcare business and the same in our Customer Communications business.
And so is there still some operating leverage left? Yes there's always operating leverage left.
And part of what our teams do day in and day out is figure out how to optimize their businesses to generate that.
But you've also picked up on the fact that we are making some investments in a number of businesses where we believe there is good growth opportunity.
So on the Financial Services sector I talked about ALPS as a place where we've made some investments.
Clearly in our brokerage business we're making some investments as well as our retirement business.
And we spoke last quarter about data analytics and the fact that we think there's an opportunity there for DST and our customers and we've been investing in that business.
The other place that we've been making consistent investments is in the health care space and the investment really comes in 2 ways right.
One is the investment in getting new customer and new revenue converted and the other is around really building out our platforms or developing new capabilities.
So I think this year again we plan to hold the gains that we made in profit margins last year across all the segments and balance that with the -- with investments to -- that allow us to grow.
Research Division</strong> So then with that as a backdrop should we think of 2014 as an above-trend investment year with the possibility for operating leverage again in '15? I think the above-trend piece will be -- is something that Gregg addressed on the last call.
We are going to have more capital expenditure this year and I'll ask Gregg to update you on that in just a moment.
So I think the capital expenditure will be above trend in 2014.
I'm not sure that from an ongoing investment in the operating businesses we should really think about it as an above trend or as a bubble year.
I mean we plan to invest in these businesses as long as we see growth opportunities.
And again if you get into the segments I would tell you business by business David it's episodic where we're making investments and where we believe the business has more optimization.
Gregg do you want to just update on that capital where we're at? Right.
So for the year for 2014 we're expecting directionally $130 million of capital expenditures.
That's going to be incrementally up about $30 million over what our prior year run rates were and that $30 million is designated really for 2 specific items.
It's a refresh of our generator plant at our data center plus the acquisition of new equipment to support the new customer that's going to be coming online at -- in the Customer Communications segment at the end of this year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a quick final question for me can you just walk us through the handoff in Customer Communications between where you are now with the loss of customer and the impact on revenue? And then beginning in next year with the new customer conversion should we expect to see some margin expansion next year with the new customer? Or will you still be in sort of investment mode around getting that customer up and running in early '15? Yes.
So I'll ask Gregg to talk to the specific numbers but let me back up David and just give you a little bit of a flavor on kind of profit margins in this segment because I know it's been something that we've been talked about.
So last year in the North American business for the first time we had double-digit operating income which was -- has been a target for a long time.
We're very pleased that the team was able to achieve that.
I would tell you that that's our goal again this year and I would also tell you that it is very revenue-dependent.
As you know these businesses are heavily heavily fixed cost and heavy capital users.
In the U.K.
business we believe there is still expansion of margin that will happen.
Now that's a much smaller business but we expect during the year that we're going to be able to continue to marginally increase that operating income percentage.
Gregg do you want to talk to the actual number? Yes.
So look we really don't have a practice of disclosing the revenue impact of new customers coming onboard but what I can share with you is that this customer and a couple of other smaller ones that we're implementing when they're fully onboard at the end of this year directionally they're going to add approximately $400 million packages to our production or to our sales.
And so we'll see that happen at the end of this year and the revenue impact of that will be felt in 2015.
Your final question comes from the line of Dave Koning with Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess first of all -- and this is a little bit like David's question too just on margins and costs and stuff.
But basically last year Q1 was the low in Financial Services in terms of EBIT.
And it stepped up materially in Q2 and then the rest of the year EBIT was reasonably stable.
And I'm just wondering if that same pattern is going to emerge this year.
That really has never been the pattern in the past.
I look back the last 5 years it was pretty stable EBIT throughout the year.
And then before that it used to ramp through the year and end with a really strong Q4.
So I'm just wondering are we in a new type of pattern where Q1 is the weak EBIT quarter of Financial Services and then Q2 ramps materially and then it kind of stabilizes the rest of the year? Here's what we -- I think Q1 we're pleased with the results in Financial Services and I do expect that it's going to improve as the year goes on.
We do not expect to see the level of material uptick this year that we saw last year and so I think that was a bit of an anomaly.
And to your point if you look back over history that's not the way that it's played out.
I would expect this year is going to be more along the historical lines.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay great.
One thing you've talked about in the past quite a bit is just the safety of the tax-advantaged registered accounts.
What we have seen is a very very gradual slow decline in the number of tax-advantaged accounts maybe a couple percent a year so nothing big or really worrisome.
But I'm just wondering maybe just updated thoughts on the safety of those and if those actually can grow again or if we should just expect mild declines over time.
Yes.
Dave I -- so there's 2 questions there.
One is the decline of those accounts and the other is around the growth.
Let me take them in the opposite order if I can.
So relative to growth on those accounts I do not believe we're going to see significant growth in tax-advantaged accounts on a direct basis all right.
And again I think the shift on how those accounts are being sold and that they're being sold by financial intermediaries and new accounts are ending up on a brokerage platform and has a subaccount.
So they end up on our mutual fund platform as a subaccount.
We are seeing some of that growth in our brokerage system where we provide a subaccounting platform.
So I don't think on a direct basis we're going to see growth in that account base.
To the point you've made we are seeing a slow decline of those accounts.
We've talked about in the past the fact that we do have broker/dealers and customers that are looking at those accounts.
There are some challenges with moving those accounts like the fact that there's a trustee involved.
And so at this point again our projection for the year hasn't changed relative to 4 million to 5 million accounts moving to subaccounting and it's just very hard for me to project for you whether that -- the movement of tax-advantaged accounts will accelerate.
At this point we don't have it in our 2014 forecast.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And then the $200 million kind of negotiated buyback have you already kind of set a price or timing? Like when should we expect that? And yes I don't know if there's a price that you predetermined already.
Sure.
So the timing in all the arrangements for the transactions are going to be addressed in definitive agreements that are being negotiated by the parties in accordance with the letter of intent that we previously disclosed.
We were making good progress on the agreements with the Argyros Group and we're obviously going to keep those discussions confidential.
We will make appropriate announcements and filings when the parties have concluded the negotiations and the final agreements have been signed.
And so yes at this point I think that's really all we're prepared to say around the agreement with the Argyros Group.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just finally I guess this is more of an accounting question than anything but you sold about $109 million of investments and the gain was $90 million.
So it seemed like that those were on the books for I guess $19 million or whatever the -- pretty small amount but your investments line on the balance sheet went down by about $100 million.
And so I'm just wondering is -- I guess I'm just wondering were those only on the books for about $19 million or something like that? And if so I guess why did the investments line go down so much sequentially? Yes.
So the available-for-sale securities that are included in the investments line those are actually on the books at market value.
And so what we saw was a decline in overall market value of a lot of those securities during the first quarter of 2014.
So some of that is actually market action as opposed to actually selling the underlying security.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Steve Hooley.
Well great.
Well thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to speaking again in the next quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems' Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I'd like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Well good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems' second quarter 2014 earnings call.
Joining me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens.
I'm going to start by going through some of the highlights for the quarter and then we'll turn the call over to Gregg for additional detail on our financial results.
Our results for this quarter reflect the progress we continue to make against our strategic objectives.
Consolidated net income for the quarter was $137.8 million or $3.34 per diluted share which is an increase of 76% from $78.5 million last year.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income was $49.5 million or $1.20 per diluted share as compared to $46.3 million or $1.04 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2013.
Our continued focus on operating execution has led to meaningful improvements in key performance metrics across all of our business segments.
We have been implementing several initiatives to convert new business to streamline costs and deliver new solutions throughout our organization and the positive effect of those efforts is starting to take shape.
While our investments have had an impact on our expenses and our operating margins our strong fundamentals have nonetheless allowed us to maintain steady sustainable growth and our long-term outlook is positive.
In our Financial Services segment strong organic growth from new and existing clients drove a 7.2% increase in revenues year-over-year to $267 million.
ALPS our asset distribution and fund arm experienced favorable market appreciation and asset growth; while BlueDoor our wealth management and retirement platform business achieved higher professional services fees for the implementation and configuration of new clients.
We continue to invest in operating efficiency converting new clients new capabilities and functionality as well as enhancements to our regulatory compliance and security programs to support higher revenues and maintain our position as a trusted partner to our clients.
In our core record-keeping business subaccounting conversions have occurred at a slightly slower pace than our previous guidance.
And as a result we now expect to see between 3 million and 4 million conversions for the full year.
As you will recall we have previously projected 4 million to 5 million subaccounting conversions during 2014.
We had total mutual fund shareowner accounts of 98.5 million at the end of the second quarter this year of which 70.9 million were registered shareowner accounts and the remaining 27.6 million were subaccounts.
As expected we incurred a slight decline in defined contribution participant accounts during the quarter as a result of the annual purge that occurs each year after the April income tax reporting deadline.
Moving on to our health services -- Healthcare Services segment.
We once again saw a double-digit growth in operating revenues which were up by 13.3% over the second quarter of last year.
Pharmacy volume claims rose by 9% and medical claim volumes also increased due to increased participation in Medicare Medicaid and healthcare exchanges.
The Affordable Care Act has been a net positive for DST and we expect the changing healthcare landscape will further benefit our business as demand expands for healthcare solutions and services.
We remain pleased with the overall performance of our healthcare business.
Healthcare Services margins were negatively impacted by $5.7 million of incremental expense during the quarter associated with potential obligations for errors in the processing of certain pharmacy claims.
And while its negative impact on the quarter we recognize that with the high volume of transaction processing and complicated regulatory environment that we're operating in these issues do arise from time to time and we continue to take steps to improve our procedures to reduce the risk that similar errors will arise in the future.
In both Healthcare and Financial Services we incurred costs in the quarter to convert committed revenues.
These investments are allowing us to expand our client base and capture greater market share.
Our Customer Communications segment continues to build momentum.
Thanks in part to the initiatives we have in place to streamline costs and increase client signings and conversions.
While revenues were down slightly compared to the second quarter of 2013 operating income grew in both North America and the United Kingdom primarily due to lower operating costs.
Operating margins in this segment grew by more than 250 basis points.
As previously announced we continue to feel the impact of prior client losses during the quarter which were partially offset by client wins in our U.K.
business.
We are pleased with the progress that has been made in the Customer Communications segment and look forward to making additional headway during the second half of the year.
Our operating joint ventures continue to be a strategic avenue which allow us to reach new markets and clients and expand our footprint globally.
We continue to invest in new solutions for the market particularly in the wealth management space in Europe.
We're excited about some of the new revenue prospects that we are developing and the continued growth opportunities that they present for our business.
With respect to our nonoperating assets we monetized approximately $118.5 million in investments this quarter including $103.6 million from the sale of our remaining investment in a private company.
As always we intend to maintain our prudent approach to asset dispositions and monetizations going forward and will take advantage of additional opportunities to strategically divest our nonoperating assets.
During the quarter we successfully completed a secondary offering of $450 million of DST Systems' common stock and subsequently repurchased $200 million of stock which allowed us to significantly reduce the position of an individual 22% shareowner to below 5%.
The $450 million of shares were redistributed into the market largely to institutional shareowners.
In addition to these repurchases we also maintained our quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share.
Our strong balance sheet manageable debt levels and solid operating cash flow have allowed us to consistently return value to our shareholders and we are confident in our ability to maintain this track record.
We continue to maintain a debt leverage ratio that provides ample flexibility to fund all aspects of our strategy which will allow us to be nimble and capitalize on the right opportunities for accretive growth as they become available.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Gregg for a detailed discussion of our second quarter financial results.
Thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $137.8 million or $3.34 per diluted share which is a significant increase over the second quarter of 2013 when we reported $78.5 million in net income or $1.77 of earnings per share.
Two of the larger items causing the increase in earnings is an after-tax gain of approximately $65 million recognized upon the sale of our remaining investment in a private company; and an $18.1 million gain relating to the block repurchase of our common stock during the quarter.
The latter share repurchase gain resulted from a change in the DST stock price between the date when the share repurchase price became fixed and the settlement date.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP earnings per share this quarter were $1.20 as compared to $1.04 in the second quarter of 2013.
The remainder of my comments will refer to our non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter rose year-over-year to $509.6 million an increase of 5.1% or $24.5 million.
Adjusted consolidated operating income increased by 1.6% to $75.6 million which was driven by both higher operating revenues in our Financial Services and Healthcare Services segments and positive operating leverage in our Customer Communications segment.
These gains were partially offset by increased costs to support the higher revenues as well as higher costs associated with new business initiatives and higher costs to support our regulatory compliance and security programs.
Additionally during the second quarter 2014 the company recorded a $5.7 million charge associated with the errors identified in the processing of certain pharmacy claim transactions.
Consolidated operating margins for the quarter were 14.8% which is a decrease from the 15.3% that we had in the second quarter of 2013.
Excluding the $5.7 million processing error charge consolidated operating margins would have been 16% for second quarter 2014.
Let me now provide a breakdown of the results of each of our operating segments.
Our Financial Services segment operating revenues increased by $17.9 million or 7.2%.
This was driven by increased revenues at ALPS DST BlueDoor and DST Brokerage.
The Financial Services segment also had $3 million of higher software license revenue primarily from finalizing an international business process solutions license during the second quarter of 2014.
These revenue increases were partially offset by declines in our mutual fund registered shareholder account processing revenues which are primarily a result of subaccounting conversions.
Financial Services segment income from operations increased $1.6 million or 3% to $55 million during the second quarter of 2014.
We had higher operating costs to support our revenue growth as well as higher costs associated with new business initiatives and increased costs to enhance our regulatory compliance and security programs.
Excluding the effects of deferred compensation cost the Financial Services' operating margin was 20.9% in the second quarter which is a decrease from the 22.1% operating margin in the second quarter of 2013.
We believe the increased costs incurred to further enhance and improve our systems and service offerings are the primary driver for the reduced operating margins.
Our Healthcare Services segment reported a year-over-year increase in operating revenues of $10.9 million or 13.3% to $92.9 million.
The increase in revenues was driven by both increased medical claims transaction volumes and increased pharmacy claims processing volumes.
The increased volumes were from both existing clients as well as transactions for new clients.
Additionally the second quarter revenues reflect year-over-year increases in discount card services and other ancillary services.
Despite the positive Healthcare Services revenue increases during the quarter overall income from operations decreased by $4.7 million to $6.7 million.
The decrease is primarily due to the $5.7 million expense associated with the estimated processing error liability.
For the quarter the Healthcare Services segment had an operating margin of 7.2% as compared to 13.9% in the second quarter of 2013.
Absent the $5.7 million expense previously referenced the segment would have had 13.3% operating margin for the quarter.
In our Customer Communications segment our operating revenues decreased year-over-year by $2.2 million.
Notwithstanding the modest decrease in operating revenues the segment's operating income increased by $3.9 million.
In North America our operating income increased $2.2 million primarily from reduced costs and in the United Kingdom our operating income increased $1.7 million from increased revenues partially offset by higher operating cost.
The second quarter operating margin for North America was 9.4% in 2014 as compared to 7.1% in 2013.
In the U.K.
our operating margin was 3.6% in 2014 which is an increase from the 2/10 of a percent we had in 2013.
Overall equity and earnings of unconsolidated affiliates were $3.9 million in the second quarter which is up slightly from the prior year quarter.
BFDS equity and earnings declined slightly to $1.2 million from lower levels of accounts serviced.
IFDS equity and earnings decreased approximately $500 000 from the same quarter last year primarily due to higher operating costs and higher platform development and migration cost been incurred for a previously announced wealth management client.
Offsetting the declines at BFDS and IFDS were improved performance by certain real estate and other joint ventures.
Our income tax rate for the second quarter was 35% as compared to 37.6% for the same quarter last year.
The decline in the quarterly tax rate results primarily from a higher mix of international earnings as compared to domestic earnings and higher foreign tax credits in 2014.
We continue to believe that our full year effective tax rate will approximate 37%.
Turning to our share count.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 41.2 million a reduction of 7.4% year-over-year as a result of share repurchases throughout the second half of 2013 and the $200 million block repurchase of 2.4 million shares during the second quarter of 2014.
We ended the second quarter with $83.3 million of cash and $671 million of debt.
I'll now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great.
Well thank you Gregg.
And before I turn the call over for questions I want to briefly emphasize my enthusiasm about the path ahead for DST.
We're executing well against all pillars of our strategy which includes the retention and growth of our client base the seamless integration of our solutions throughout an expanding global footprint and the prudent allocation of capital to strengthen our business and deliver shareholder value.
I'm pleased with the first half of the year and believe we are very well positioned for the future.
And with that operator I'll go ahead and turn the call over to you for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Listen I just had a few follow-ups.
On the $5.7 million onetime cost due to processing errors at Healthcare can you talk about the thought process about not adding that back to non-GAAP? I guess certainly I view it as a onetime cost but are there other considerations there? Yes I think Pete look it is part of the operation.
And I think what's unique about this is the size.
We're in high-volume complex transaction processing businesses.
And from time to time we do have these processing errors that run through the financials of the businesses.
So quite honestly we think it's from a shareholder perspective the right way to reflect the expense.
And again we're not happy about the loss.
We're very happy about the performance of the business but we do view it as part of the operations of the company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough fair enough.
And then on the Customer Communications side can you talk about those conversions the new customer conversions how those are going and when we should expect to see those ramp into the numbers? Yes.
I think we reported last quarter Pete and we're going to -- we remain -- we should start to see those conversions in the fourth quarter of this year.
So the full impact -- we should see some impact in the fourth quarter although it will be fairly minimal.
Full impact should be in 2015 and -- there's always the potential.
These are large conversions.
There's always the potential if they could slide a month.
And when you get into the fourth quarter if it moves a month it will move into '15 right? Because both our customer and we don't want to be going through a major conversion across the end of the year.
So we still appear to be on track to have those conversions happen in the fourth quarter and again we'll see the impact of it in 2015.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then how do you view the kind of compromise proposal on the table as it regards money markets? And do you anticipate much impact on DST given that the current form of the rule suggests that there be a prime funds or institutional funds? Yes Pete so obviously extremely interesting to many of our customers right that have large money market positions.
We obviously watch it with great interest again because our customers are big players in that market.
What's interesting is the money market fund is largely institutional right? And so it's not -- it doesn't represent for us a lot of accounts.
And so again very important to our customers from an AUM perspective.
But as it relates to numbers of accounts on our TA2000 platform the number of accounts in our money market funds is relatively low.
So we were -- we've been involved with our customers and we've been involved with the regulators to talk just about some of the proposals and the operating implications of those.
But as it relates to our business I don't think there will be a big impact.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right that's what I thought.
I appreciate it.
Just one more question and I'll get back in the queue for Gregg.
I'm sorry if I missed it but did you give shares outstanding at the end of the period? Yes so let me get that number for you.
It's 39.7 million shares outstanding as of the end of June 30.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's basic correct? That's basic.
That's true outstanding.
Your next question comes from line of George Mihalos of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Ryan filling in for George here.
The first question can you give us some color on the year-over-year margin decline in Financial Services? Given the strength in ALPS and lower deconversions I figured that would improve year-over-year.
And were investments more weighted to 2Q? And following up on that how should we think about margins in the back half of '14 versus the back half of '13? Yes.
So Ryan I think there was 3 questions in there.
I missed the second one but the first one was around margins in the Financial Services sector.
And look the margins are going to move generally around the numbers that we're at.
We have been investing in as we talked about in our converting customers developing new capabilities for the marketplace.
And as both Gregg and I mentioned regulatory compliance and security which is becoming I should say is becoming it has been a big factor in both the Healthcare and the Financial Services sector and continues.
And so the decline in margins look I view it as relatively modest and it is about the investment spending that's going on.
I missed the second part of the question.
The third part of the question was our view of margins for the rest of the year.
As you know Ryan we really don't give guidance but I would expect again that the margin that we're at today we could be slightly above could be slightly below but I think it's a pretty good target for us in that sector of our business.
Did I miss -- did I miss something in the middle there? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just thinking about the investments you talked about are they more weighted towards second quarter? Is it kind of it's like a barbell throughout the year? No I don't think it's weighted in any particular quarter.
Some of it Ryan will be episodic.
Obviously when we're converting a customer we have additional expense.
Some of that expense remains when the customer is converted to service it.
Some of these expenses are going to be built into our operating base right? When you think about compliance changes regulatory changes you think about security of our customer data we're just going to see a flat-out increase in our expenses.
And again that's part of the environments that we're operating -- operate in and that's just the reality.
So I don't view these expenses as barbelled or episodic or confined to the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And one final question here.
That $103.6 million sale -- I'm sorry if I missed this on the call was that related to a cell phone insurance company the remaining stake in that? Yes so Ryan we really don't comment on the names or the businesses that we're selling up.
But I can tell you this it was one position and it was completely the remaining portion of our position in that company.
Your next question comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> This is Mike Landau in for David Togut.
Just wondering if we could get a sustainable growth rate or what you think the sustainable growth rate would be for the pharmacy claims process over the next 12 to 18 months? Yes Mike we don't give guidance on that.
We're very pleased with the results of last quarter and certainly on a year-over-year basis.
But that's not something that we project.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sure.
And then just to follow up on the question about the healthcare charges.
Just wondering if we should expect the charges in future quarters? Or is this really just affecting 2Q '14? This particular expense is affecting 2Q '14.
And again we have processing errors from time to time.
That's the nature of the business that we're in.
This one was certainly larger than most that we experienced.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Koning of Baird.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
I guess the first one being in the core Financial Services business this was the strongest growth you've had in a long time at 7%.
And when we kind of dissect that business about half of the revenue historically has come from the registered accounts side of it and now you said it was down.
That means the other half has to be growing in the mid-teens to kind of blend to that 7% growth.
And I'm just wondering -- I mean it seems like we have to be ballpark -- in the ballpark of being right on that.
But is that somewhat unsustainable? Or is there actually some drivers behind that half? It seems like subaccounting is going well.
ALPS is growing well.
Maybe international license was good.
That can kind of handle that type of going forward.
Yes look we're very pleased with the top line growth in the Financial Services segment.
As you know we've been investing in the -- all those things you just mentioned.
We've been investing in our subaccounting business.
We've been investing in our retirement business.
We've been investing in ALPS.
And we've been doing that to position ourselves for growth.
So there's a couple of things happening there right? One is the subaccounting has slowed down okay? So the year-over-year comparisons are -- we didn't have as many conversions last year.
Last year we had 5.2 million subaccounts.
We just today let you know that we are actually adjusting down our expectation for 2014.
We had been projecting 4 million to 5 million accounts.
We're now looking at 3 million to 4 million accounts.
And so the year-over-year comparisons have gotten a little bit easier so there wasn't quite as much ground to make up as there was say on a '12 to '13 comparison.
And some of these other businesses that we've been positioning for growth are starting to look -- to deliver.
So again we're very pleased with the second quarter growth and clearly it's our target to have that continue.
But I don't -- really don't want to comment on where we expect it to go in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And should we think of some of that as being hard to sustain? Like I mean license growth is lumpy and that helped a little bit and ALPS has been benefiting from year-over-year.
The market's been extremely good and we probably don't want expect year-over-year growth in the stock market to be I don't know if it was 20% in Q2 year-over-year or whatever.
But I mean are there some components that you just would expect that you just can't keep quite up the pace? Yes Dave so you've touched on 2 really interesting topics right? One is the license growth and we've talked about this.
When we get a license -- and particularly the BPS license that Gregg referenced was a great win for that team.
Nice piece of business with a customer that we're going to have a great long-term relationship with.
But when those come through in the quarter not only do the flow to the top line but the majority of that flows through to the bottom line.
So it really helps from an income from operations perspective.
The other thing that you're right on is our ALPS business.
They continue to do a great job out there.
But we are now more impacted by market action right? We've got over $14 billion in assets under management.
And to your point we've had a nice tailwind with the market and to the extent that slowed down that would certainly impact the revenue growth rate at ALPS and for the company.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
That all made sense.
Now the previous question on long-term growth and the pharma claims I know you don't want to answer that but was there anything in -- well in Q2 the pharmacy claims I thought you mentioned last quarter was going to start being impacted in Q2 by 1 of the 2 client losses.
And so it was a little surprising that growth remained kind of right around that 10% level that it's been in a while.
So I guess I'm just wondering did Q2 get impacted quite a bit by that 1 client loss? So we had 1 customer that left at the end of the year.
And then we have another one that is going to -- when are they converting off Gregg? It will be throughout 2015.
Okay.
So throughout 2015.
So there was some impact of the customer that left.
Again we've had strong claim experience right? And again I think what I'd tell you Dave is I think it goes to how well our customers are doing in attracting new customers to their business right? So we've got great customers in this space.
They continue to do well and that tends to drive volume through our system.
I also mentioned that we have benefited from the Affordable Care Act given our strong position in Medicare Medicaid and the healthcare exchanges and so again that's been a positive factor for us.
So we were pleased with the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Is -- I guess a couple of things on that.
Do you have kind of an underlying growth x the client loss? What kind of normalized growth it has been for the last couple of quarters? I don't have that number.
Yes that's not something that I have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And sort of a correlate to that is there going to be a quarter say in the next 3 4 5 quarters where you're going to hit like a really tough comp because of the ACA? Or is it something that's just gradually building and there's really no 1 quarter or anything where you're going to see kind of a stabilization of growth? Well I think the business -- fourth quarter is typically a more difficult quarter on an annualized basis.
But from a comp perspective I expect that it will be in line.
So I don't think we should see on a comp basis any real lumpiness.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last one.
Just because you bought so many shares in the quarter and I know it's partial quarter benefit this quarter just maybe did you have some sort of sense of what Q3 would be like? It seems to me like it should be just slightly under 40 million for your diluted share count kind of average for Q3? This is Gregg.
You're pretty much right on it.
I mean so we bought back that 2.4 million shares that came in directionally in the middle of May.
So we should get the full benefit of that 2.4 million on the quarterly basis in the third quarter.
So we had about 1.2 million of the benefit in the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Can you size the growth investments that you did in the Financial Services segment? Is it kind of single-digit million or something perhaps maybe a little bit larger? Yes David we don't actually disclose the size of the investments.
I mean we're -- I break the investments out in 3 ways right? One is kind of the ongoing investment that we have in keeping our systems contemporary in meeting regulatory changes in meeting compliance changes.
We then have expenses that are associated very specifically with either a new functionality or a new business right that we're introducing to the marketplace or customers that we're converting.
And then the third kind of area would be in the infrastructure area.
As you know we run big data centers.
And again are constantly investing in the infrastructure of the company to make sure that we're in position to handle our customers' growth.
So -- but we don't disclose the numbers that we make -- that we invest there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can we maybe -- just as you're waiting for the new customer wins in the Customer Communications segment as you start to onboard those can you continue to keep the cost relatively flat to -- they've been trending down.
I'm just wondering when you start to onboard the relatively large new customer wins again in the fourth quarter of this year or into '15 how fixed are your costs around that onboarding process? Yes David actually -- first of all I want to tell you that I think the management team across the company but particularly in Customer Communications has done a great job of managing their expenses.
And actually the expense to convert that big customer is happening right now.
I mean we've been working on this really since the beginning of the year.
And so these conversions have a long buildup.
And so I am confident that we can maintain the cost level that we're at through the end of the year and bring on this big new customer.
So I'd say the cost gains that we've achieved are sustainable.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just the -- since you mentioned in the release the ancillary services that you have in the Healthcare segment is this an area of growth for you going forward the discount card and et cetera? Yes it is.
And I think about it we refer to them as ancillary services.
That's probably not the best definition.
I mean look we're trying to build a solution to take to the healthcare marketplace.
And so discount cards is just another example of something that we do that's part of the overall health solutions package that we deliver to our customers in the marketplace.
And so yes we do expect that there will be growth there and those are all areas of focus for us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And one last one for me.
When do you start to finish up on the IFDS investments for the private wealth management product? Yes.
That's got a long burn.
These are big projects with big customers and so these will run out through 2016.
So we've got significant expense going on now.
It will actually ratchet up in 2015 and through at least the first half maybe first 3 quarters of 2016.
And we'll start to see some pretty demonstrable revenue at that time.
But it is -- the expenses is building and will continue for a pretty significant period of time.
That said I think if you look at what's happening there we're going to be very well positioned in a new line of business with some very significant customers of ours.
So it's actually -- we're actually pretty excited about it.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now return the call to Steve Hooley for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you all very much for your time.
We look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you operator.
Thank you for participating in today's DST Systems Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 11:30 a.m.
Eastern Time today through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Time on August 1 2014.
The conference ID number for the replay is 66381305.
The number to dial for the replay is 1 (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to DST Systems' Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Well good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems' Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Joining me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens.
I'm going to start by going through some of the highlights for the quarter and then we'll turn the call over to Gregg for additional details at our financial results.
In the third quarter of 2014 consolidated net income was $100 million or $2.51 per diluted share which is an increase of 3.2% from $96.9 million last year.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income was $61.2 million or $1.54 per diluted share as compared to $52.8 million or $1.21 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2013 an increase of 27% for the quarter.
Our results this quarter reflect the progress we continue to make against our strategic objectives.
We remain focused on making investments in our core operations to further enhance our customers' experience and the value we can bring to the markets that we serve while taking action to reduce costs in areas of our business that have seen changes in the business climate including the Financial Services and Customer Communications segments.
We believe these activities will position our company well to take advantage of future opportunities for growth.
In our Financial Services segment operating revenues increased 7.3% year-over-year to $266.9 million.
Positive net fund flows and favorable market conditions contributed to higher assets under management within our ALPS proprietary funds and growth within our brokerage and retirement solutions clients.
Operating revenues also increased from higher international investment management software license revenues and higher professional services fees for the implementation and configuration of our new wealth management clients.
Operating revenue growth was partially offset by a decline of 2.3 million registered accounts due to sub-accounting since September 30 2013.
Based upon our modeling and information obtained from our clients conversions of registered accounts to subaccounts for 2014 are currently estimated to be at the low end or slightly below the company's previous guidance of 3 million to 4 million accounts.
As you may recall we initially expected the conversion of between 4 million to 5 million accounts to subaccounting during 2014.
We reduced that guidance on the second quarter call to 3 million to 4 million.
The movement in our estimate reflects the fact that we have smaller blocks of accounts being converted which is challenging our modeling a bit.
For 2015 we expect conversions of registered accounts to subaccounts to be approximately 4 million to 5 million.
This projection in part reflects the movement of some accounts for 2014 to the 2015 time frame.
In our Financial Services segment we continue investing to expand our ALPS asset gathering business and to further develop our applied analytics and Brokerage Solutions service offerings.
These investments are in the form of people with product technical and sales expertise and technology both hardware and software.
We're excited by the valuable insights that our applied analytics group has been able to ascertain utilizing the expansive data that we have access to and the complex algorithms we have developed.
We are seeing positive traction with our customers in this area.
However it will take some time before we see meaningful contribution margins to the business.
We are confident that these investments will allow us to continue to expand sales to our existing client base and to capture greater market share in the long term.
Moving on to our Healthcare Services segment.
We once again saw double-digit growth in operating revenues which were up by $14.8 million or 18.3% as compared to third quarter of 2013.
This was due to higher medical claim transaction volumes professional services and additional business processing outsourcing revenues.
Pharmacy claim processing revenues also contributed to the increased segment revenues particularly due to Medicare Medicaid and healthcare exchange member growth at our existing clients.
During the quarter Healthcare Services segment income from operations increased $4.2 million to $15.6 million or 37% primarily due to strong revenue growth and operating leverage.
The increased revenues were partially offset by increased costs in expenses primarily related to additional staffing required to service our higher transaction volumes and customer implementations.
We're very pleased with the top line growth in our Healthcare Services segment which we believe reflects the quality of our client base.
We have also managed to maintain operating margins in the mid-teens.
During 2015 we will realize the impact of a previously announced client loss will have a negative impact on our overall top line growth and operating margins in the segment.
Our Customer Communications segment operating revenues decreased $1.4 million to $159.1 million from the third quarter of 2013.
Our North American operations continue to be impacted by lower volumes which have been partially offset by higher revenues from our electronic and postal service solutions.
Throughout 2014 our team has been working diligently to convert new clients which we announced last year as well as a new client which we signed in the third quarter which is expected to result in approximately 24 million packages on an annual basis once fully converted.
We are just beginning to see some of the benefits from these new clients as conversions are being completed and expect to see the full benefit during 2015.
In the United Kingdom higher volumes from new and existing clients and favorable foreign currency exchange rates contributed to an increase in operating revenues of $1.9 million or 4.2%.
Customer Communications operating income decreased slightly compared to the same period in the prior year.
In North America reduced operating revenues contributed to the decrease while in the United Kingdom operating income increased slightly as a result of increased revenues and lower depreciation partially offset by higher operating costs to support the new revenues.
To put this in perspective we've been able to maintain operating margins in both North America and the United Kingdom despite the current costs associated with converting new clients that will enable us to generate new revenue in future periods.
We continue to focus on quality and operating efficiency in both markets while converting new clients and holding on to gains in operating margins that we have experienced over the last 3 years.
Our equity and nonconsolidated affiliates was positively impacted by a significant increase in the earnings of International Financial Data Services U.K.
due to revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities of new wealth management clients.
The implementation efforts involved for the 2 new clients are continuing to progress and will be multi-year efforts.
As we've discussed previously these projects require significant upfront development costs to adapt our Australian-based superannuation software to the U.K.
wealth marketplace.
We're excited about these projects and believe this is a very good opportunity for our joint venture company.
While we're pleased with the progress we have made we continue to believe there are additional actions we can take to improve our operations and further enhance the performance of our segments and overall business.
As part of our ongoing review of our businesses in the third quarter we took actions in our Financial Services and Customer Communications segments that are designed to reduce operating costs and streamline our business functions.
Within both the Financial Services and Customer Communications segments we began the process of shutting down certain of our satellite operations and transitioning work to our larger scale facilities.
We have notified all impacted employees and in total are reducing headcount by a few hundred positions across the company and expect to exit certain facilities by the end of the fourth quarter of this year.
These actions are the result of continued changes in the market including the conversion of registered accounts to subaccounts as well as the ongoing need to optimize our Customer Communications segment.
Our objective as always is to ensure the highest level of customer service while proactively adapting our business to the evolving environment.
Our view of the current and expected trends across these segments triggered these additional actions to enhance operational efficiency today and best position DST for the future.
As a result of these actions we incurred pretax charges in the third quarter 2014 of $6.4 million primarily within the Financial Services.
We anticipate an additional pretax charge in the fourth quarter of 2014 of approximately $7.5 million comprising a $4 million charge within Financial Services and $3.5 million charge at Customer Communications due to timing of employee benefit and lease termination costs related to these actions that were taken during the third quarter.
Beginning in 2015 we anticipate that these initiatives will generate annual pretax operating cost savings of approximately $13 million to $15 million of which approximately 75% will be realized within our Financial Services segment.
These savings will enhance our cash flows support margin stability and allow for additional investment in the businesses.
We have also continued our ongoing initiatives to monetize the company's nonoperating assets.
In the third quarter we received $100 million of pretax cash proceeds primarily resulting from the sale of $54.4 million in State Street stock and $32.1 million from the sale of non-DST occupied real estate holdings.
The space we sold represents approximately 40% of the company's portfolio of wholly-owned non-DST occupied real estate and we believe underscores our emphasis on streamlining our business structure and reducing our exposure to nonoperating assets.
We will continue to take prudent actions to achieve this objective.
Additionally we resumed the repurchasing of DST shares during the quarter.
We allocated approximately $92 million to repurchase approximately 1 million shares of DST common stock under our share repurchase plan which leaves approximately $158 million remaining under the existing plan.
Our strong balance sheet manageable debt levels and solid operating cash flow will allow us ample flexibility to fund our strategy and capitalize on the right opportunities for accretive growth as they become available.
We are simultaneously committed to reducing costs in areas of the business that we have seen change in the operating climate and we intend to continue delivering world class service to our customers while maintaining a successful track record for our shareholders.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Gregg for a detailed discussion of our third quarter financial results.
Well thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $100 million or $2.51 per diluted share.
That compares to $96.9 million or $2.23 per share in the third quarter of 2013.
The 2014 third quarter results include the reversal of a loss accrual previously recorded for a 2012 regulatory inquiry within our Healthcare Services segment.
The inquiry was resolved during the third quarter for $4 million less than the amounts previously accrued for the matter.
Also impacting the GAAP results for the quarter is a favorable resolution of certain tax uncertainties which resulted in the reversal of a $4.5 million estimated tax liability.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP earnings per share this quarter were $1.54 an increase of approximately 27.3% from $1.21 of earnings per share in the third quarter of 2013.
The remainder of my comments will refer to our non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter rose year-over-year to $510.5 million an increase of 6.3% or $30.3 million.
Adjusted consolidated operating income increased by 5.6% to $86.4 million which was driven by higher revenues in our Financial Services and Healthcare Services segments.
Consolidated operating margins for the quarter were 16.9% which is in line with the 17% operating margin that we had in the third quarter of 2013.
Let me now provide a breakdown of the results of each of our operating segments.
Our Financial Services segment operating revenues increased by $18.1 million or 7.3%.
ALPS revenues increased due to positive net fund flows and favorable market conditions.
Our brokerage and retirement groups had growth from new and existing clients while BlueDoor had higher professional service fees for the implementation and configuration of our wealth management platform in the U.K.
Additionally revenues increased $3.1 million from higher international investment management software license revenues.
These operating revenue increases continue to be partially offset by declines in mutual fund registered shareholder accounting processing due to lower registered accounts primarily as a result of subaccounting conversions.
Financial Services segment income from operations increased $500 000 or 0.09% to $56.7 million during the third quarter of 2014.
The higher operating revenues were offset by increased processing cost to support the incremental revenues as well as higher costs associated with new business initiatives as we expand our ALPS asset gathering business and make investments to further develop our applied analytics and brokerage solutions service offerings.
In addition we continue to see increased cost from enhancing our regulatory compliance and security programs.
Excluding the effects of deferred compensation cost the Financial Services operating margin was 21.1% in the third quarter which is a decrease from the 23.8% operating margin in third quarter of 2013.
The primary drivers of the decrease in operating margin are the continued decline of registered accounts and the investments that we're making to expand our service offerings and to develop our technology solutions which we believe will provide a strong growth opportunities in the future.
Our Healthcare Services segment reported a year-over-year increase in operating revenues of $14.8 million or 18.3% to $95.5 million.
The increase in revenues was driven by both increased medical claims transaction volumes and increased pharmacy claims processing volumes.
On our medical claim transaction platform we saw increased volumes from growth at existing clients as well as from new clients.
Our pharmacy claims processing revenues also increased due to increased claims for Medicare Medicaid and healthcare exchange members.
Overall income from operations in our Healthcare Services segment increased $4.2 million or 37% to $15.6 million.
The increase is primarily due to higher revenues partially offset by increased staffing and operating cost.
Our Healthcare Services operating margin for third quarter 2014 was 16.3% as compared to 14.1% in 2013.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues were $159.1 million a decrease of $1.4 million from the third quarter of 2013.
Despite a decrease in our North America operating revenues of $3.3 million operating income decreased by only $300 000 primarily due to cost savings initiatives.
Operating revenues in the U.K.
increased $1.9 million attributable to higher volumes from new and existing clients and favorable foreign exchange movements.
The U.K.
operating income of $200 000 is in line with the prior year quarter.
Although we had nice revenue growth in the U.K.
it was mostly offset by higher operating costs to support the higher volumes.
Overall equity and earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates was $10.2 million in the third quarter an increase of $8.1 million from last year.
IFDS equity earnings increased $7.9 million primarily due to revenues recognized from the ongoing conversion activities of 2 previously announced wealth management clients.
While we're starting to see benefits from the investments that are being made to build out the new wealth management platform for the U.K.
market earnings will continue to be impacted by the rate of progress of the conversion efforts and therefore may not be consistent period-to-period throughout the implementation and conversion period.
The increase in other equity and earnings is primarily the result of higher earnings from real estate joint ventures partially offset by lower earnings from BFDS.
Our income tax rate for the third quarter was 33.7% as compared to 36.4% for the same quarter last year.
The lower income tax rate is primarily the result of an increase in the proportion of earnings related to our international operations.
We expect our full year tax rate to be approximately 35%.
Turning to our share count.
Weighted average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 39.8 million a decrease of 3.7 million shares or 8.5% from third quarter 2013.
The decrease is primarily a result of share repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2013 and throughout 2014.
During the third quarter of 2014 we repurchased 1 million shares for $92.1 million under our existing share repurchase plan.
Finally on October 1 we renewed our revolving debt facility and increased the capacity to $850 million.
The new facility has a 5-year term.
Overall we ended the quarter with $87.5 million of cash and total debt has declined by approximately $60 million since the end of June to $612.1 million.
I'll now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great.
Well thanks Gregg.
Before we open the call for questions I want to briefly express my excitement about the future ahead of DST.
We're actively managing all aspects of our business to position DST for sustained growth and taking the necessary actions to increase efficiency and consolidate operations which will allow us to maintain operating margins.
We're executing well against our strategy and our businesses are delivering value to our customers.
By investing in our core operations to enhance customers' experience retaining our existing client base expanding into new markets and continuing to thoughtfully evaluate areas in which we can reduce costs we are confident that we can continue creating value for our shareholders.
I also want to thank our employees and management teams for all the hard work and supporting the execution of our strategy and driving value for all of our stakeholders.
I'm excited about the solid performance in the third quarter and believe our prospects are bright.
Look forward to continuing to update you as we move forward.
With that I'd like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore.
This is Michael Hart on the line for David.
To start I guess I'd like to ask about the increase in your earnings from unconsolidated affiliates.
I know you said there will be some lumpiness from the client conversions but I guess in terms of thinking of a normalized run rate for that do you think $10 million per quarter is a sustainable number? No I don't.
And so let's just talk about what's happening there a little bit Michael.
As we said there's a -- in addition to the underlying core business which is doing record keeping for collectives in the U.K.
and offshore markets that underlying business has had really solid performance and really solid growth.
And so they are continuing to win and convert new customers as well as maintaining and retaining the important customer relationships that they have.
We then have 2 major projects going on.
And really what we've talked about is the development of a wealth platform that's based on some software that DST owns in Australia to support superannuation funds.
And so the development has been going on.
We've had people working on it and the projects with our customers are laid out in phases.
And so what happens is as we complete a phase and there's agreement with the customer then we have the opportunity under the accounting rules to recognize revenue.
So what you saw this quarter was our ability to recognize some revenue and really we've been carrying the cost of generating that revenue for quite a while.
It's going to continue to be uneven quarter-to-quarter and I would -- again I would not expect that it's going to be at the same level that it was this quarter.
But we do expect next year to be able to maintain the gains that we've had this year and hopefully improve on them.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then I guess turning to Financial Services I was wondering if you could quantify a bit the contributions to that 7% increase from ALPS and from the other parts of the business that you called out in the prepared remarks.
Yes Michael we don't break out that level of detail.
We really keep it at the segment level.
What I would tell you is we've been making investments in ALPS primarily on the asset gathering side of the business and asset management side of the business there.
And we're starting to see the benefits of those investments come through.
So again we've been carrying some expense for the better part of a year and I think particularly in ALPS and in other parts of Financial Services we're starting to see some of the benefit of those investments.
Okay.
That helps.
And if I can just one last question around the monetization of your investment assets.
Do you expect to sustain the current pace of about $100 million per quarter? And if so can you comment at all about how you plan to redeploy the cash flow from that monetization? Yes.
So -- this is Gregg Givens.
We've had a consistent pattern of monetizing directionally the $100 million a quarter over the past few quarters.
And we'd like people to think about -- we don't want to get into a discussion on our forward pace but we'd like people to think that we're going to be consistent.
In terms of deploying the capital that comes off of the monetizations and so forth we look to invest back in the company.
We'd like to manage our debt levels return capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends and look at opportunistic acquisitions.
Our next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just curious how much pull forward seasonally there was in the Healthcare segment.
Yes David I'm -- it's a good question that is very hard for us to identify.
We think there has been -- some of the -- some of what we would have expected in the fourth quarter got pulled into the third quarter.
But I would tell you that the majority of the growth we think was just due to good underlying performance by our customers.
So again if you kind of think about our business right we're wholesaling to customers who are selling to the end market.
And again in my prepared comments I mentioned that our growth in the Healthcare business like in all of our businesses is really a reflection of the quality of the customer base that we have.
So I think there was a little bit of revenue being pulled in from the fourth quarter but we had a really solid third quarter.
And again that's due to the success that our customers are having.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's good to hear.
And then this is pretty widespread between Customer Communications revenue and [indiscernible] or packages mailed wondering how much of that benefit is digital in moderating the revenue decline.
Is that an important part of that story? Yes.
So it's interesting right? You're -- what you're seeing is physical print and packages declining.
You're not seeing the same level of decline in both revenue and profits in that sector.
And you've touched on it precisely.
We're seeing an increase in the electronic presentment of statements and images to our customers.
And as we've talked about in the past there's a lower revenue unit there but a higher profit margin.
So the Customer Communications segment this quarter was pressured.
The good news is we talked about last quarter a large customer that we were converting and talked about that we expected to see that -- the benefit of that come in the fourth quarter but that it could potentially move to the first quarter.
And I guess the really good news is that we have in fact come to agreement with the customer to start production and we saw the first benefits of that in the last couple of months.
And so I think next year we'll see some of that additional revenue in bottom line profit pull through.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's really good news and you also signed another one.
We did yes.
The team has done a really fabulous job over there.
We did sign another customer.
And actually a part of what we -- part of the work that we're doing for them we were able to spin-up pretty quickly so we saw a very small amount of benefit.
But that one will come online a little bit quicker than our typical conversion.
So that's good news.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on -- the net debt-to-trailing EBITDA I think is about 1x now.
Can you just an update if you changed your view around your target debt leverage levels? Or where are you now comfortable? And where could debt leverage go up to? Well David we're very comfortable with the current debt levels at the 1x.
We've mentioned before that we'd be comfortable on a long-term basis at somewhere between 2x to 2.25x.
So we had some room there but we're not looking to change that profile immediately.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I get one last question in.
It's been about 3 years since your last acquisition.
How does your deal pipeline and if you'd be willing to share some of the areas of potential interest in M&amp;A for you? Sure.
We're in the market always and I -- so I'll tell you a couple of things around investing in the business.
We're making a lot of investments right now basically through the balance sheet right? So we've talked about building out capability -- additional distribution capabilities within ALPS.
We've talked in the past and mentioned again today an initiative that we have that we've launched and are working on around applied analytics.
We continue to invest through the balance sheet in our retirement sector and in our brokerage sector.
And of course you've seen in the U.K.
a major investment that we've -- has been flowing through the balance sheet for almost 1.5 years now in the wealth management sector.
So we think of M&amp;A as just a part of the overall investment strategy of the company and around specific areas we've I think been pretty open that the ALPS business for us has been a nice growth business.
We'd love to expand that business.
We're doing it again through the balance sheet and through the hard work of the associates there.
But to the extent we had acquisition opportunities in the space that ALPS operates we're -- we'd be very interested.
Applied analytics is a focus for the company.
We think it's a big potential future opportunity.
And again retirement and brokerage -- so I don't want to exclude any areas but if you ask about the real focus areas I'd say those would be kind of top of mind.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say on the IFDS side that -- I'm just trying to approximate and acknowledging that we're going to see phases of revenue recognition there but added about $0.10 EPS in the quarter? Is that about right? Give us 1 sec Pete.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I'll ask maybe while Gregg's working on that ask another question for you Steve.
ALPS we've just seen phenomenal growth 40% year-over-year growth in AUMA.
I know you don't want to talk too much about the individual piece of the business.
But if I look back to the revenue makeup of ALPS when you acquired it and based on the growth of the AUMA would it be fair to say that approximately 5% of operating revenue is now geared to 1 basis point spread of asset under management administration or it would be a little bit more of that? So Pete let me ask a clarifying question.
Are you talking about 5% of ALPS or 5% of the overall company? LLC Research Division</strong> 5% of operating -- total operating revenue.
If I remember correctly ALPS was like $110 million of revenue with -- I thought at times of a roughly 40% coming from...
Yes.
So the answer is yes.
You're directionally correct.
It's in the 5% to 7% kind of range.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then...
I think the other thing well let me give you just a little bit more detail Pete which might be helpful.
There's really 2 parts of ALPS right? There's an asset management and asset gathering part of the business and then an asset servicing part of the business.
We've seen good growth on both sides.
But the growth on the asset management and asset gathering side of the business has been -- it's growing at a faster rate and becoming a bigger part of the ALPS story.
So very pleased with both parts of the business have a great management team up there in Denver leading this company.
And again we've been investing I'd say more heavily in growing out the asset gathering and asset management side of that business.
And I know last quarter we talked a little bit about how we think about the growth there.
And so the assets under management to think about the split about 70% of the growth is new fund flows and about 30% is market action.
And so that's consistent with the numbers we talked about last quarter but a little bit more detail on the business there.
Then Pete going back to your question on IFDS because of the carry-through impact of foreign tax credits and things like that IFDS was probably a little bit in excess of $0.15 for the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then -- when I -- I think -- you're executing on both sides of the strategy here you continue to monetize assets.
But probably more importantly that the organic growth and the margins are following through and that's really what investors are going to be placing value on.
But one question I get when I'm talking to investors is if the company has made the strategic decision to access these non-core assets why do we take 3 years to do it? And do you think that maybe the market risk that you're assuming -- now granted some of those are very illiquid and I understand it's not a fire sale but other assets -- I guess sometimes I feel like the market risk you're taking in some of these other assets by not selling them faster is impeding the multiple and preventing us to get to that point where you actually have -- the buy side of it wants to look at an easy valuation that can't quite get there because there's still this big chunk of other assets on the balance sheet.
So can you talk a little bit more about your rationale for having a very measured pace for monetization? Well sure.
Pete I'm not sure I'd call it a rationale.
We have a strategy.
We have a strategy around the capital management of the company that Gregg and I have worked through with our board.
We have a pace that we're comfortable with and we think makes sense for what we're trying to do with the company.
I would tell you the vast majority of my time attention and focus is on the operating parts of the company right? And so we have the pace discussion a lot.
What I tell you is we're comfortable with the pace and our board is comfortable with the pace and our Chief Financial Officer is comfortable with the pace.
And really what we're focusing on is how do we build an operating company for the future.
And so I know it's probably not what you're looking for but again I think Gregg's commentary around being consistent is what the market should expect.
And again really what we're focused on is the operating parts of the company.
And to your point we're showing progress there right? LLC Research Division</strong> That's fair enough.
That's fair enough.
That is a question that comes up in every discussion.
I understand and I appreciate your asking.
LLC Research Division</strong> One last housekeeping question for Gregg.
Shares end of period? Basic shares? Yes.
So basic shares were 37 -- I'm sorry outstanding shares was 38.7 million shares at the end of Q3 2014.
And that was our final question.
I'd now like to turn the floor back over to Steve Hooley for any closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
We appreciate everybody dialing in.
Again we want to thank our employees and management team for the hard work that they are doing in executing our strategy and we certainly look forward to updating you after next quarter.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's DST Systems' Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
Welcome to DST Systems Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call [Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Well good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Joining me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens.
I plan to start going through some of the highlights for the quarter and then we'll turn the call over to Gregg for additional detail on our financial results.
We're very pleased to bring 2014 to a close with solid performance across all of our businesses.
In the quarter consolidated net income was $255.1 million or $6.65 per diluted share which is an increase of $171.1 million from $84 million last year.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income was $66.4 million or $1.73 per diluted share as compared to $57 million or $1.34 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2013 an increase of approximately 29% for the quarter.
Our results this quarter reflect the continued progress we are making against our strategic objectives.
We've made several organizational changes to consolidate and centralize certain functions within our business and these changes have allowed us to increase our efficiency and consistency across the business for the benefit of all stakeholders.
This has been evidenced by our growth in operating revenues and increases in our healthcare and customer communication operating margins.
You've also heard us say for some time now that we regularly evaluate all aspects of our business to ensure that we are best positioned for growth and value creation.
As part of this ongoing evaluation we determined that DST Global Solutions was not a key component of our long-term strategic plan.
We sold Global Solutions which provide stand-alone investment management software solutions during the quarter for cash consideration of $95 million.
The company recorded a pretax gain of $100.5 million on the sale during the fourth quarter of 2014.
We anticipate using the proceeds from the sale to support our overall capital plan which includes continuing to invest in the growth of our business.
In early January we purchased kasina a strategic advisor to asset managers for $14 million.
This acquisition is part of our strategy to become the dominant solution partner to distribution companies at asset management firms.
With the addition of kasina DST's Distribution Solutions group now offers asset managers a market-leading combination of advisory research technology and analytics that enables a deeper understanding of their customers along with better marketing and selling capabilities.
We believe this acquisition will support the continued execution of our strategy and will position our company well to take advantage of opportunities for growth in 2015 and beyond.
Moving to our segment results in our Financial Services segment operating revenues in the quarter increased 2.4% year-over-year to $264.3 million.
The increase in operating revenues was primarily due to net positive fund flows which contributed to higher assets under management within our ALPS proprietary funds.
Operating revenues also increased due to organic and new client growth within Brokerage Solutions and higher professional services fees within the Retirement Solutions group.
Operating revenue growth was negatively impacted by the sale of Global Solutions at the end of November by a decrease in software revenues and by the continued decline in mutual fund registered shareowner account processing due to lower registered accounts primarily as a result of subaccounting conversions.
Total mutual funds share on our accounts decreased by 400 000 accounts to 97.4 million accounts during the quarter and registered shareowner accounts processed as of December 31 decreased 600 000 from the prior quarter and 2.4 million from the prior year primarily from subaccounting conversions.
This represents approximately 1/2 of our initial projection for subaccounting conversions during 2014.
As we've discussed in the past there are a variety of factors that affect the number and timing of registered accounts converting to subaccounts.
Our current estimate for the conversion of registered accounts to subaccounts during 2015 remains at 4 million to 5 million accounts for the year as we expect a portion of the conversions we had initially anticipated in 2014 will now occur during 2015.
Based on our historical experience we anticipate that approximately 25% of the converted accounts will be migrated onto the DST subaccounting platform and due to the relatively small size of the remaining blocks that we expect may convert beyond 2015 we plan to discontinue our guidance beyond 2015 in this area as the expected impacts will not be significant to our operations.
Financial Services segment income from operations decreased $2.9 million or 5% during the quarter compared to the prior year period partially due to the sale of Global Solutions in November of 2014.
Income from operations was also impacted by a $3 million decrease in software license revenues which tend to have very high operating margins additionally increased processing cost to support the incremental processing revenues as well as higher costs associated with new business initiatives as we continue to expand our ALPS asset gathering business and to make investments to further develop our applied analytics and Brokerage Solutions offerings.
Moving to our Healthcare Services segment.
We once again saw year-over-year growth in operating revenues which are up by $11.2 million or 12.4% as compared to fourth quarter of 2013.
This was due to higher pharmacy claims processing revenues principally due to Medicare Medicaid and Healthcare Exchange member growth at our existing clients.
Additionally increases in discount card services and other ancillary services further added to the higher revenues over the prior-year period.
Increased medical claim transaction volumes also contributed to the increased operating revenues due to growth from existing and new clients and higher business processing outsourcing revenues.
During the quarter our Healthcare Services segment income from operations increased $3.2 million or 16.2% to $23 million primarily due to higher operating revenues partially offset by increased staffing costs incurred to complete new client implementations and to service the increased transaction volumes.
Despite these increased costs we were able to improve operating margins in the quarter from 21.9% to 22.6%.
We're very pleased with the Healthcare Segment's results for 2014 and see continued growth in the core healthcare operations.
A previously announced client that chose not to renew their contract with us completed the deconversion of approximately 40% of their business on January 1.
The remainder of the deconversion is expected to occur in stages over the next 2 years and will create headwinds to our growth in this segment.
Our Customer Communications segment operating revenues increased $1.3 million to $163.3 million from the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our client conversion teams have worked diligently this year on the implementation of new clients and we are beginning to see some of the benefits from these new clients as conversions are being completed.
During our fourth quarter we completed the initial implementation of a major new customer that has been previously announced.
We have over half of this client implemented at this time and plan to implement the remainder in stages over the next 3 quarters.
Customer Communications operating income increased $5.5 million during the quarter to $15.1 million with increases in both North America and the United Kingdom.
Higher operating revenues combined with our operating efficiency efforts in both North America and the U.K.
have enabled us to show continued improvement in our Customer Communication operating results while maintaining our focus on quality.
Our equity and unconsolidated affiliates was positively impacted by higher earnings from IFDS partially offset by lower earnings from BFDS and other investments.
The increase in IFDS equity and earnings from fourth quarter 2013 is primarily the result of revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities of our previously announced new wealth management clients in the United Kingdom.
The implementation efforts involved for the 2 new clients are continuing to progress and we are excited by the opportunity for IFDS to expand its infrastructure and associated service offerings within the U.K.
market.
We've also continued our ongoing initiatives to monetize the company's nonoperating assets in the fourth quarter.
We received $103.6 million of pretax cash proceeds primarily resulting from the sale of $91.3 million in State Street stock and $10.5 million from private equity investment distributions.
Additionally in the quarter we spent $107.9 million to repurchase approximately 1.2 million shares of DST common stock.
In January of 2015 the company spent $50 million to purchase an additional 525 000 shares which completes the existing share repurchase plan.
We're pleased to announce that on January 28 our board authorized a new 250 million share repurchase plan.
Furthermore in the fourth quarter DST paid a dividend of $0.30 per share and our board recently declared another $0.30 per share quarterly dividend for the first quarter of 2015.
We're pleased to make these announcements and believe these actions underscore our commitment to returning capital to shareholders.
During 2014 DST made positive progress in each of its business segments and we are moving ahead in our strategy to drive growth to operate efficiently and prudently manage our business.
We're pleased with the operating revenue growth we've achieved during 2014 and believe we're well-positioned for growth in 2015 and beyond.
Our objective as always is to ensure the highest level of client service while proactively adapting our business to the evolving environment.
Our strong balance sheet decisive actions to streamline our business and reduce cost manageable debt levels and solid operating cash flow have allowed us to continue investing in our business and capitalizing on the right opportunities for growth.
We are simultaneously committed to delivering world-class service to our clients while returning capital to our shareholders.
We'll continue to take actions to enhance operational efficiency today and to best position DST for the future.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Gregg for a detailed discussion of our fourth quarter financial results.
Well thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $255.1 million or $6.65 per diluted shares.
This compares to $84 million or $1.97 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our 2014 fourth quarter results include a pretax gain of $100.5 million from the sale of the Global Solutions business.
Also impacting the GAAP results for the quarter is the favorable resolution of certain tax uncertainties which resulted in the reversal of $30.8 million of estimated tax liabilities.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share this quarter was $1.73 an increase of 29.1% from the $1.34 of diluted earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the full year we reported non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $5.55 an increase of 21.4% from the $4.57 of earnings per share for the full year 2013.
The remainder of my comments will refer to our non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter rose year-over-year to $516.7 million an increase of 3.3% or $16.6 million.
Consolidated operating income increased by 5.5% to $93.5 million.
Increased revenue across all of our operating segments combined with efficiencies achieved in cost management contributed to this growth.
These efficiencies were partially offset by the increasing cost to address regulatory compliance and security requirements throughout the organization as well as investments in new products and services.
Consolidated operating margins for the quarter were 18.1% as compared to 17.7% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Let me now provide a breakdown of the results of each of our operating segments.
Our Financial Services segment operating revenues increased by $6.3 million.
As previously mentioned we sold the Global Solutions business on November 30.
Since we only had 2 months results in the fourth quarter of 2014 this resulted in a $7.4 million reduction in operating revenues in fourth quarter 2014 as compared to fourth quarter 2013.
Also December has historically been a large revenue month for Global Solutions.
Excluding the impact of Global Solutions operating revenues for each of the comparative quarters our Financial Services segment operating revenues increased by $13.7 million or 5.7%.
From an operating standpoint we had increased revenues from net positive fund flows and overall positive market conditions leading to growth in ALPS assets under management.
It should be noted that the performance of our ALPS business is increasingly impacted by the performance of global markets which can lead to revenue volatility as several of our funds are invested in commodities energy and international interest.
Operating revenues were also favorably impacted by higher professional service revenues in our Retirement Solutions business as well as organic and new client growth within our Brokerage Solutions business.
These increases in operating revenues were partially offset by lower software license revenues and the continued decline in our mutual fund registered shareowner account processing due to subaccounting conversions.
Financial Services segment income from operations decreased $2.9 million or 5% to $54.8 million during fourth quarter 2014 as compared to the prior year.
This decrease was partially due to the sale of Global Solutions which had $600 000 less operating income as a result of only having 2 months of operations in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Income from operations was also lower due to a decrease in software license sales increased processing costs to support the incremental processing revenues and higher cost of investments in new business initiatives within ALPS Applied Analytics and Brokerage Solutions.
In addition we continue to see increased costs from enhancing our regulatory compliance and security programs.
Excluding deferred compensation cost the Financial Services segment operating margin was 21.1% for the fourth quarter of 2014 as compared to 23.8% for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our Healthcare Services segment reported a year-over-year increase in operating revenues of $11.2 million or 12.4% to $101.8 million.
The increase in revenues was driven by increased Medicare Medicaid discount card and healthcare exchange pharmacy claims processing.
Also contributing to the increase were higher medical claims transaction processing from new and existing business process outsourcing clients.
Overall income from operations in our Healthcare Services segment increased $3.2 million or 16.2% to $23 million.
The increase is primarily due to higher operating revenues partially offset by increased staffing costs incurred to service the increased transaction volumes.
Our Healthcare Services operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2014 was 22.6% as compared to 21.9% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The fourth quarter 2014 operating margin of 22.6% is higher than the full-year 2014 operating margin of 14.9%.
It should be noted that the Healthcare Services segment operating margins are generally higher in the fourth quarter principally due to the timing of software license sales and the finalization of annual service level incentive payments.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues were $163.3 million an increase of $1.3 million from the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our North America operating revenues increased $1 million or 0.9% to $114.6 million.
The increase primarily relates to initiating processing mid-quarter for a previously announced client which is expected to be one of the largest customers for the segment once fully converted.
This increased volume was partially offset by decreased volumes from existing clients and an unfavorable movement in the Canadian dollar versus the U.S.
dollar.
Our U.K.
operating revenues increased $300 000 or 0.6% to $48.7 million.
The U.K.
operating revenues were adversely impacted in the quarter from the decline in the value of the Great Britain pound.
Income from operations for the Customer Communications segment increased $5.5 million during the fourth quarter 2014 to $15.1 million.
Operating margins for the fourth quarter of 2014 were 9.2% as compared to 5.9% in 2013.
We had improved margins in both our North America and U.K.
operations.
Overall equity and earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates was $10.2 million up sharply from $4.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Equity and earnings of IFDS increased by $8 million to $8.8 million primarily as a result of ongoing conversion activities of the new wealth management clients in the U.K.
As a reminder earnings will continue to be impacted by the rate of progress of the conversion efforts and therefore may not be consistent from period to period throughout the implementation and conversion phases.
BFDS equity and earnings declined from fourth quarter 2013 primarily due to lower shareholder processing revenues which were partially offset by increased revenues from other ancillary services.
Favorable reductions in BFDS operating expenses were largely offset by investments in ancillary product offerings the timing of commission expenses and severance costs incurred as a result of actions taken during the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our income tax rate for the fourth quarter was 33.3% a decrease from the 38.2% tax rate in the same quarter last year.
Our lower tax rate is primarily the result of an increase in the proportion of earnings related to international operations in 2014 and the fourth quarter cumulative catch-up for the retroactive renewal of the research and experimentation credits.
Our full-year tax rate was 34.5% in line with our expectations of approximately 35%.
We expect our income tax rate for 2015 to be approximately 36%.
Turning to our share count weighted average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 38.4 million a decrease of 4.2 million shares or 9.9% from the fourth quarter of 2013.
This is largely attributable to share repurchases made throughout 2014.
As Steve mentioned we completed our previous share repurchase program and are pleased to announce that our board has authorized an additional $250 million share repurchase plan.
We ended the quarter with $151.7 million of cash and $552 million of debt.
Finally during 2014 we had $115.7 million of capital expenditures which is less than we had originally projected for the year.
The decrease is primarily due to the timing of expenditures for our new generator plant which we now expect to be completed in 2015.
We are estimating $120 million of capital expenditures in 2015 which includes approximately $20 million of expenditures for completing the new generator plant.
I'll now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great.
Thanks Gregg.
Before we open the call for questions I want to briefly express my excitement about the future ahead for DST.
We're executing well against our strategy of retention and growth of our client base the enhancement of our portfolio and a continued focus on delivering value to our clients.
We are prudently allocating capital to strengthen our business and deliver shareholder value and I'm excited by how far we've come.
I also want to take a moment to express my appreciation to our employees and management teams all of whom contributed to our solid performance across our businesses this quarter and the success of DST in 2014.
By combining the talent of our employees with our customer solutions and industry experience I'm confident that the future is bright in 2015.
At this point I'd like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> Steve and Gregg this is Mike Landau on the call for David Togut.
To start we noted the centralization of business function activity in the past year.
Can you update us on your cost savings target for 2015? Yes Mike.
We don't give guidance on any cost savings targets.
I mean I guess what I would tell you is like every well-run business we're very focused on delivering value to our customers expanding revenue investing in the business but also keeping an eye on operating expenses.
So I like to tell everybody we are in an operating business so we wake up every day thinking about how to improve that across all of our businesses and I think what we've seen this year and it's come through really in terms of increased operating margins is an improvement in the underlying expense base of our core business.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then shifting over to IFDS given the large earnings improvement you hinted that going forward this could be a bit lumpy but overall can you quantify the expected earnings contribution of IFDS in 2015? Yes again we don't give that level of guidance.
I think you're right we've used that very technical term lumpy and I think that's going to continue and here's the reason right.
What's happening over -- there's 2 things happening at IFDS okay? The first is we run a record-keeping business there for collective funds and that's been the main line of that business for a very long time.
That business continues to progress.
It continues to win new customers.
They've got conversions that are ongoing and that business is performing extraordinarily well.
We also have this new line of business that we've talked about in the wealth management space and there are major projects going on there to both develop the solution and implement that solution with our customers.
And so as Gregg pointed out what happens there is we have revenue recognition that takes place after certain project milestones are hit and that's dependent upon us delivering the solution and our customers working with us to accept that solution.
And so the timing of when we're going to be able to recognize those revenues is something that happens between us and our customer.
In the fourth quarter we had a significant amount of that revenue recognition take place and again it will happen next year but it won't happen on a steady or even basis.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then just shifting over to core assets so at what pace do you expect to monetize non-core assets in 2015 given the last 2 quarters have been quite consistent? Yes so Mike throughout 2014 we were monetizing at a rate of about -- right at $100 million a quarter and we like to think -- have people think of us as being consistent as we go into 2015.
Of course we can always alter that if the right opportunity presented itself.
Your next question comes from the line of George Mihalos of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start off on the healthcare business.
Obviously there is a run off of a large customer there.
I was hoping maybe you can sort of help us think through the growth profile of that business in 2015 at least sort of the timing of when we might see the impact.
Yes so George this is the customer that we've talked about now for -- going on 2 years.
So as I mentioned January 1 roughly 40% of the volume deconverted okay? So we're going to have the full-year impact of that deconversion and then the remainder of the volume will at this point deconvert over the next 2 years okay? Now here's what I'd tell you.
Just like on the inbound side sometimes conversions get pushed or delayed.
On the outbound side sometimes deconversions get pushed or delayed.
The 40% decline has locked in.
It happened on January 1.
So we've got year-over-year a bit of a tough comparison because we had that revenue for full year in 2014.
We'll have none of that 40% revenue in 2015.
And so I would tell you that when we first announced this client not renewing their contract with us it was 2013 and the statement that we made was that we expected between 2013 and the end of 2015 on a net basis we would be able to grow through the loss and I'd say we remain -- that continues to be our position okay? So as you think about our healthcare sector in 2015 I think we will have what I'm going to call nominal top line growth.
Does that make sense? Research Division</strong> Yes that's definitely helpful appreciate the color on that.
And just in terms of sort of the margin profile not too much of a change from what we've seen? On a full-year basis I would say -- what we've said is that we expect these businesses run kind of in the mid-teens.
We saw that kind of performance out of this business unit this year.
I think Gregg talked about fourth quarter is typically a very strong margin quarter for us in that business due to some incentive payments that we get in working with our customers as well as software sales.
But yes I would say George we're comfortable that this business should run kind of in that range in that kind of mid-teen range.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And then Gregg you mentioned on the outside some exposure to commodities and FX.
I'm not sure did you quantify what the AUM exposure is in percentage terms or...
Well we have a little over $15 billion of assets under management at ALPS at the end of the year.
Approximately 65% of the funds that make up that assets under management are in areas such as commodities energy and international interest.
And when we look at the ALPS business directionally and this is across the whole ALPS business if there's a 10% increase in assets under management or a 10% decrease in assets under management it could translate into a $10 million change in revenues on a full-year basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question for me it doesn't sound like it but nothing new going on in terms of brokers looking at converting tax-advantaged accounts into subaccounts right? It doesn't sound like there's anything new on that front.
Yes George.
I'd say that's accurate.
We -- I think it's worthwhile to just talk about '14 and kind of what happened there.
We initially came into 2014 we had an estimated 4 million to 5 million accounts.
We down-sided that estimate to 3 million to 4 million at the end of the second quarter.
At the end of the third quarter we said that we were expecting to be at the low end of that range and we actually ended out the year with about -- not about with 2.4 million accounts deconverting.
We then last quarter gave guidance for this year 2015 in the 4 million to 5 million range because again some of those conversions that didn't happen in '14 we expect to move to '15.
And you're right there's really no new news on that front other than we do expect that in 2016 as I mentioned this -- we expect this to be fairly de minimis in terms of impact on the overall operations of the company.
Now again that could change but today I would say no new news to report.
Your next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Were the cost savings actions that you took in the fourth quarter at a full run rate through the quarter or should we expect some additional benefit there in the first quarter '15? Yes so those cost savings actions we initiated them in the third quarter 2014 but what we indicated was that portions of those were actually going to take place toward the latter part of 2014.
And so in the aggregate those cost savings initiatives between the severance and lease abandonment and things like that totaled $15.1 million of charges between third and fourth quarter and we expect it to yield directionally $12 million to $15 million of savings in 2015.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I know the timing of the multiyear implementation revenue in IFDS is difficult but could you give us some idea of the total project size that you expect? Yes David we don't size the overall project.
I mean let's take a look at IFDS and these are obviously numbers that are out there.
If we think about the earnings at IFDS 2013 was just over $3 million.
2014 up about almost $19 million and so a huge uptick this year.
We would not expect that kind of growth next year and into the future but -- and again based on timing of when we can recognize those revenues I do expect we're going to see a little bit of growth out of that business unit next year but nothing to the extent we saw over the last 12 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful and then we're estimating about 100 to 150 basis points drag on revenue from FX in 2015.
Is that roughly in the ballpark? Yes.
So we've looked at the foreign currency.
It's -- clearly there's been a lot of decreasing currencies after -- against the U.S.
dollar within the last 60 days.
Let me size it for you this way David if I can because we really looked at it in terms of what the impact was to earnings per share.
But if we took the average rates that we converted all of our international operations into our consolidated financial statements in 2014 and we also take out Global Solutions which we sold on November 30 all right and then we just basically plug in the current rates that we have right now back into that schedule we estimate that the drag on earnings per share is a little over $0.05 for 2014.
We think the effects on 2015 might be a little bit higher.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And last one for me is there anything unusual about operating profit in the Customer Communications segment? And I know you've done a great job in raising margins here over the last couple of years.
Would you expect the uptick in volumes there from new customer wins to enable you to continue margin expansion in that segment? So David again -- and I appreciate the comment and I would concur with you.
I think the management team both in North America and in the U.K.
has done a fabulous job there and our full year margin for 2014 across the 2 segments in that business was right up at about 9% 8.8%.
I think there's a little bit more margin expansion that we can get out of that business not the kind of improvements that we've seen over the last 36 or 48 months but we're approaching a number that we're very comfortable with.
Initially we talked about in North America trying to get to double-digit earnings in that business and in fact the team was able to accomplish that in 2014.
I'd like to hope that as an overall segment we could maybe get to that double-digit earnings sometime in the not too distant future and again I think that would be tremendous improvement not only in the U.S.
business but really in the U.K.
business.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have a few clean up questions.
Gregg was the end of period share count 37.6 million? Yes it was 37.6 million and the average diluted shares for the quarter were 38.4 million shares.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then should we assume that revenue contribution from kasina is that pretty nominal something $5 million $6 million $7 million or would it be larger than that? No.
It is nominal Pete.
And let me just talk for a minute about the strategy around that acquisition.
kasina has a great reputation and presence in the asset management distribution what I'd say consulting and advising business.
And we have tools that our asset management customers use as well as we have some designs on some tools that we like to build and some data analytics tools that we feel like would be extremely helpful in that marketplace and so the strategy and the thought process around acquiring kasina was acquiring intellectual capability as well as market presence that would allow them to help us distribute our products further and quite honestly to help us with product development.
So it really wasn't an acquisition designed around acquiring immediate revenues.
It was really an acquisition around acquiring people and market presence to allow us to expand that business over the near term.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then as regards to your commentary on future subaccounting losses so I guess what I inferred from your commentary is that subaccounting headwinds should -- are expected to moderate significantly in 2016 and I believe your comment was really all -- at that point by the end of 2015 all of the large blocks should have at that time been converted.
So should we interpret that as potentially a diminished headwind for registered accounts in 2016 but also a -- potentially a slowdown in the growth of subaccounts in 2016? Do you think there are still opportunities to win competitive takeaways of blocks of subaccounts in the marketplace over the next couple of years? Yes so a few questions in there all of which are good.
So let me parse them out a little bit.
So the answer is yes again we've got an estimate of 4 million to 5 million for this year and if that plays out -- now of course Pete we had the estimate for 2014 and we got half that number right so -- but if that plays out in '15 when we look at our modeling for '16 and beyond yes it becomes -- if you think about it at the corporate level it becomes somewhat de minimis to our overall results.
So again expected today that's the case.
Then your question was around the subaccounting business and what's happening in our subaccounting business.
And we had nice growth in our subaccounting business this year and it was virtually all organic right? And so if you think about what's happening in the marketplace and we've talked about this many fewer direct to fund accounts being set up most new accounts are being set up through a brokerage option and end up on a subaccounting platform.
So I expect that our core record-keeping business the transfer agency direct to fund transfer agency business yes we expect the headwinds in 2016 to moderate.
I do expect in our subaccounting business that we're going to see organic growth as new accounts get set up and end up on that platform and as our customers are successful in attracting new business.
And we do believe there's some opportunity to potentially move some other existing blocks of subaccounting business over to our platform.
And again that's something that we've got teams obviously working on that but that's a sales process that takes a while and then I would tell you not unlike a transfer agent conversion or a healthcare conversion.
Those conversions take quite a while before you see first dollar revenue.
Your final question comes from the line of Dave Koning of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
I guess first of all in the healthcare business last year really throughout the year you grew your covered lives by about 3% or kind of low single digits and you grew claims by around 10%.
That was pretty stable through the year yet revenues grew 15% so the yield on those claims and/or lives was very good growing pretty nicely.
Is that kind of how you also expect 2015 to play out? I get there's some moving parts.
If anything it seems like the yield on those would go up as you lose a big client that probably gets lower pricing than average.
Just kind of wondering if that yield is sustainably higher over time.
Yes.
So I think Robert what maybe is missing there is some of the ancillary revenues that we get that wouldn't necessarily be captured in number of lives or number of claims and so we've got a discount card program that we've seen nice growth in.
As you know we sell some software licenses in through our healthcare business and so I think the spread between the metric of lives and claims versus the spread in revenue increase and margin increase is really due to those other ancillary businesses and the growth that we've seen in those and again I would just caution you we had the discussion earlier our growth in the healthcare sector for 2015 is going to be very negatively impacted by this deconversion that took place.
Research Division</strong> Yes that totally makes sense.
And then as we look into '15 in the financial business it sounds like no big change in direction that the core recordkeeping business probably keeps declining.
But the other few businesses that really grew well last year the TRAC business grew number of accounts by like high-20s%.
International business I think did well.
ALPS obviously did well.
Are the trajectories there continuing to be very positive or is it a little hard? I mean TRAC it's a tougher comp.
ALPS has been growing so well.
Do the comps get tougher that those can't keep growing at such high levels? I'm not sure on the TRAC business.
I think 20% is a little bit high.
We did have some growth there but the growth there was more in the low to mid-single digit maybe 4% kind of growth so -- but the question is on -- I think your core question is on a comparative basis does it get more difficult.
The answer is of course it gets more difficult.
That said we are constantly introducing new products.
We expect again with the acquisition of kasina we hope to see some uptick in our Distribution Solutions products that we provide to the marketplace.
And so look we were very happy with top line growth in the Financial Services sector in 2014 and so I think to the extent that we could maintain that level of growth I think we'd -- we would call that a success in 2015.
Research Division</strong> Yes and that's -- that all makes sense and you're right TRAC didn't grow as fast but you changed your reporting last year and so our numbers reflect that.
So great job though.
At this time there are no further questions.
I'll now return the call to Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Hooley for any additional or closing remarks.
Great well thank you.
We're very pleased with the enhancements that we made to your business in 2014 and the growth we saw on the fourth quarter and I look forward to continuing our progress in 2015.
Thank you all for joining the call today and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you for participating in the DST Systems Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the Company's views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the Company's future results including those risk factors set forth in DST's latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Well good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems first quarter of 2015 earnings call.
With me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens.
I'm going to start by going through some of the highlights for the quarter and then we'll turn the call over to Gregg for additional detail on our financial results.
In the first quarter of 2015 consolidated net income was $107.8 million or $2.87 per diluted share which is an increase of approximately 7.4% from $100.4 million last year.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income was $52.6 million or $1.40 per diluted share as compared to $47.5 million or $1.12 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2014 an increase of 25% in diluted EPS for the quarter.
Our results for the first quarter reflect the continuing positive momentum we experienced throughout 2014.
We continue to experience a strong operating environment in our Financial and Healthcare segments and our efforts in Customer Communications are supporting improved results both year-over-year and on a sequential basis.
We expect 2015 will be challenging from a revenue perspective and difficult to compare on a year-over-year basis as we've been impacted by a number of factors.
Principally we sold Global Solutions in 2014 which contributed $14.9 million of operating revenue in the first quarter of 2014.
Additionally we experienced negative foreign currency movements which resulted in a $7.3 million reduction in operating revenues through the first quarter of 2015 as compared to 2014.
We're also seeing slower growth in our ALPS proprietary funds due to softening of the energy and commodity markets as well as lower Healthcare revenues as a result of the partial de-conversion of a previously announced client.
While our operating footprint naturally helps to hedge against the impact of foreign exchange the combination of foreign exchange challenges and the effect of stock commodity and energy markets on our clients will continue to put pressure on our outlook for the remainder of the year.
While 2015 will be challenging I'm confident in our effective execution and expect it will continue to help minimize the impact of these headwinds.
Underscoring our efforts this quarter we achieved new client revenues and organic growth at existing clients particularly in our Customer Communications North American operations as well as new software license sales in our Business Process Solutions business.
We are excited about the two new acquisitions we've announced since January.
We recently announced the acquisition of Red Rocks Capital which we expect to close in the second half of 2015 subject to certain customary approvals.
Red Rocks is a leading domestic money manager of package listed private equity products in a 40x structure.
The firm manages and advises 1.8 billion in assets through a variety of product structures including mutual funds sub-advised relationships separately managed accounts and third-party variable annuities.
We view Red Rocks as an important strategic addition to our ALPS asset management business.
As a leader in listed private equity and private asset investments the addition of Red Rocks will strengthen our foundation in the alternative investments marketplace and will allow us to better leverage our existing relationship.
In our last call we discussed with you our purchase of Kasina which closed in January.
Kasina has brought strong new partnerships to DST distribution solutions and while it was a small acquisition it has already helped us strengthen and broaden some of our existing relationships with asset management firms.
Before moving to our segment results for the quarter I want to remind everyone of the new segment presentation outlined in our earnings release issued today.
We have modified our reportable segments to reflect recent changes and how we operate our businesses and make resource allocations.
In addition to these operational changes we also have included real estate that is utilized principally by our business operations within the respected segments rather than within our Investments and Other segment.
Additional details are in our press release and prior periods have been revised to be consistent with the new segment presentation.
Now for our results for the quarter.
In our Financial Services segment operating revenues decreased slightly by 1.9% or $5.2 million to $266.6 million compared to the first quarter of 2014.
As a reminder the sale of Global Solutions in the fourth quarter of 2014 will negatively impact our period-over-period revenue comparisons for this quarter and for the remainder of the year.
Excluding Global Solutions operating revenues increased by $9.7 million this increase is attributed to growth across a number of our operating divisions including ALPS Brokerage and Retirement as well as higher business process solutions software license sales.
Particularly offsetting these increases in revenue were declines in mutual fund or I'm sorry partially offsetting these increases in revenues were declines in mutual fund registered processing revenue and negative foreign currency impact.
On the sub-accounting front we continue to expect conversions to sub-accounting in 2015 will be approximately 4 million to 5 million accounts which is consistent with our fourth quarter of 2014 guidance.
Moving on to our Healthcare Services segment.
Overall trends in Healthcare remained positive and we believe there is significant opportunity within our Healthcare Services segment.
During the first quarter we reported approximately $91.9 million of operating revenues which was essentially flat year-over-year.
As we've previously discussed our Healthcare business had a client which de-converted approximately 40% of their business effective January 01st of this year.
The impact of this client de-conversion was largely offset through organic growth and on-boarding of new clients.
For the first quarter we continued to experience increased medical claim transaction volumes from existing and new clients and higher business process outsourcing revenues.
We also had favorable contributions from increases in discount card services and other ancillary services.
We continue to expand and enhance our service offerings in the Healthcare segment to ensure that were able to address the changing needs of our clients including developing solutions that drive better clinical outcomes generate better financial results and help our customers more effectively manage their member populations.
Our Customer Communications segment's operating revenues for the first quarter of 2015 increased 6.3 million as compared to first quarter of 2014 excluding the impacts of foreign currency movements.
A significant driver of this performance was new volumes from previously announced client conversions.
Income in this segment increased $4.8 million year-over-year to $20.5 million.
Demonstrating our continued efforts to enhance the operating model for this segment including the positive impact of the closure of certain North American facilities in the prior year.
Our equity and unconsolidated affiliates was positively impacted by significant year-over-year earnings from IFDS from the result of strong growth from existing and new clients in our existing business and higher revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities of our new wealth management clients in the United Kingdom.
We continuously are evaluating our capital plan to proactively manage our resource needs and determine the most effective and productive use of our assets.
As part of this plan during the first quarter we've continued to monetize the Company's non-operating assets and paid a dividend of $0.30 per share.
Additionally on January 28th our Board authorized a new 250 million share repurchase plan.
During the first quarter we spent $75 million to repurchase approximately 800 000 shares of DST common stock.
We strongly believe in the strength of our business and our prospects for continued growth and success.
We also continue to look for opportunities to expand and enhance our service offering to our clients as well as achieve synergies by expanding our scale and capabilities through strategic acquisitions.
With that Id like to turn the call over to Greg for a detailed discussion of our first quarter financial results.
Thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $107.8 million or $2.87 per diluted share an increase from the $100.4 million or $2.37 per share in the first quarter of 2014.
This increase in earnings per share is attributable to a combination of improved operating results gains from monetizing non-operating assets and the impact of share repurchases.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP earnings per share this quarter was $1.40 an increase of 25% from $1.12 of earnings per share in the first quarter of 2014.
The remainder of my comments will focus on our adjusted non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter decreased 1.9% or $9.5 million year-over-year to $495.7 million.
As you are aware we sold our Global Solutions business during the fourth quarter 2014.
Excluding Global Solutions first quarter 2014 operating revenues consolidated operating revenues increased by $5.4 million year-over-year which was driven by higher revenues in our Financial Services and Customer Communications segments.
Consolidated operating income increased by 4.7% to $76.1 million primarily due to higher operating revenues which are partially offset by higher operating cost incurred to support the new business as well as investments in new business initiatives.
Consolidated operating margins were 15.4% in the quarter which is an increase over the 14.4% in first quarter of 2014.
Before we review the segment results I want to remind everyone that our prior period results have been recast to be consistent with the new segment presentation that Steve discussed earlier.
At a high level the changes to last year's full year 2014 segment presentation resulted in a $63.3 million increase in operating revenues and $11.7 million increase in operating income within the Financial Services segment.
The Financial Services segment increases were then offset by a $34.3 million decrease in operating revenues and a $7.5 million decrease in operating income within the Customer Communications segment with the remaining reductions impacting the investments in other segment and segment eliminations.
Now let's review the segment results.
Within the Financial Services segment operating revenues decreased by $5.2 million or 1.9%.
This was driven primarily by the sale of Global Solutions which had $14.9 million of operating revenues in first quarter of 2014.
Excluding Global Solutions 2014 results operating revenues increased by $9.7 million or 3.8% in the first quarter of 2015.
Primarily driven by growth in ALPS proprietary funds revenue and higher software license revenue of $1.6 million.
We also had higher Brokerage and Retirement services revenue which was partially offset by declines in mutual fund registered shareowner account processing revenue and the negative impact from foreign currency movements.
Financial Services income from operations increased $2.2 million or 4.9% over the prior year quarter to $47 million.
The increase was primarily attributable to higher operating revenues partially offset by the additional cost incurred to support the increased revenue.
We also had increased technology security and regulatory compliance cost for enhancing our network infrastructure as well as higher cost associated with new business initiatives as we expand our Bluedoor wealth management platform into the UK market and make investments to further develop the ALPS Applied Analytics and Brokerage Solutions service offerings.
The Financial Services segment operating margin was 17.6% in the quarter which is an increase from the 16.5% operating margin in the first quarter of 2014.
Our Healthcare Services segment operating revenues were $91.9 million which is in line with the prior year revenues.
Operating revenues benefited from organic growth at existing clients and the on-boarding of new clients.
Increased medical claims transaction volumes along with higher business process outsourcing revenues coupled with increases in discount card services and other ancillary services also contributed to the revenue growth.
The operating revenue growth for the quarter was then largely offset by lower pharmacy claims processing revenues due to the partial client de-conversion that we have previously discussed.
Healthcare Services income from operations decreased by $2.8 million to $8.9 million during the first quarter primarily due to a change in mix of revenues year-over-year.
A large percentage of our revenue growth in 2015 has come from business process outsourcing services which tend to have a higher level of support cost.
Additionally income from operations was impacted by increased staffing cost incurred to expand client service offerings.
Operating margin for first quarter 2015 was 9.7% as compared to 12.7% in first quarter of 2014.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues increased year-over-year by $1.2 million to $160.1 million.
In North America operating revenues increased $9.3 million primarily from new volumes as we continue to convert business from the previously announced new clients.
These increases were negatively impacted by $1.3 million of unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements in our Canadian operations.
UK operating revenues decreased $8.1 million.
Foreign currency movements negatively impacted our UK operating revenues by $3.8 million in the quarter while the remaining decline is primarily the result of lower volumes from existing customers.
Overall Customer Communications operating income was $20.5 million an increase of 4.8 million from the same quarter last year.
The increase reflects higher operating revenues in North America partially offset by higher cost to support the growth of revenue a decrease in UK operating income as a result of lower revenues and the negative impact of foreign currency movements on our Canadian and UK operations.
Customer Communications segment operating margins increased from 9.9% in 2014 to 12.8% in first quarter 2015.
The first quarter operating margin for North America was 17.8% which was an increase over the 13% we had in 2014.
While in the UK our operating margin was a negative 1.7% in 2015 as compared to a 3% operating margin during the prior year quarter.
Overall equity and earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates increased by $5.9 million to $11.3 million in the first quarter of 2015.
This was primarily driven by IFDS earnings of $7.3 million which increased by 5.2 million over the first quarter of 2014.
The IFDS increase was primarily from higher processing revenues due to organic growth and new client volumes.
IFDS also had higher revenues recognized related to ongoing conversion activities of the new wealth management clients in the UK.
Moving forward earnings will continue to be impacted by the rate of progress related to the conversions and therefore may not be consistent period-to-period throughout the implementation and conversion process.
Our income tax rate for the first quarter was 36.4% which is a slight decrease compared to the 36.8% rate in the first quarter of 2014 and is in line with our full year estimate of 36%.
During the quarter we received $102.9 million of pre-tax cash proceeds from monetization activities resulting from the sale of $82.2 million of marketable securities at which the majority was State Street stocks.
We also had $16.8 million from private equity investment distributions and $3.9 million from the sale of wholly-owned real estate assets.
In addition to the previously discussed monetization our real estate joint ventures received $22 million from the sale of real estate assets during the first quarter of 2015 $11 million of which is our 50% share.
Turning to our share count during the quarter the Company spent $75 million to repurchase approximately 800 000 shares of DST common stock.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 37.6 million shares a decrease of 11.3% from the first quarter of 2014.
At March 31 we had $225 million remaining under the DST's share repurchase plan.
We closed the first quarter with $111.7 million of cash and $512.5 million of debt.
Were confident in our balance sheet position which will continue to provide flexibility to pursue a range of growth opportunities while maintaining a strong leverage ratio.
Before I conclude Id like to spend a little time covering our recently announced acquisition of Red Rocks Capital LLC that is projected to close in the third quarter of this year.
We have agreed to acquire Red Rocks for a purchase price of up to $65 million consisting of a combination of $45 million in upfront cash consideration and $20 million of performance-related contingent consideration.
The transaction will be funded using the combination of cash and short-term borrowings.
We expect the transaction to result in $0.08 to $0.10 of dilution to earnings per share for the 12 months following the acquisition and to be slightly accretive to earnings per share thereafter.
The dilution following the acquisition is principally driven by the expense recognition associated with the $20 million of estimated future performance related payments which are subject to both performance and continued employment.
Were confident that this transaction structure will provide alignment in performance goals and overall value creation.
Ill now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great thanks Gregg.
Before we open the call for questions I want to discussion a couple of key global trends that are driving our business.
The aging population continues to be a key driver of both our Financial Services and Healthcare businesses particularly in the U.S.
the phenomenon of the Baby Boom generation reaching retirement age provides a solid underpinning for our health and wealth focus.
Big data in the area of Applied Analytics continue to grow.
Given our position in managing and processing data on behalf of our clients we feel were well-positioned to provide tools and expertise as our clients seek to run more efficient businesses and engage more deeply with their end-customers.
We have been investing heavily through our balance sheet in the areas of security audit regulatory compliance and risk management.
This investment is ongoing and we view it as mission-critical in order to protect the integrity and security of the data on our systems as well as maintain full regulatory compliance.
And finally I want to underscore our continued confidence in the power and potential of each of our operating platforms.
We have steadily executed on our strategy and we believe we continue to be in the early innings of our execution.
We expect the best is yet to come as we continue to support organic growth and manage costs make prudent acquisitions to strengthen our client relationships and support a diversified portfolio of assets and solutions.
We believe that our continued performance underscores our operating strength and the success of our strategic evolution over the past several years.
I look forward to updating you as we move forward.
And at this point I want to go ahead and open the call for questions operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore ISI.
Hi this is Michael Landau in for David Togut.
For the quarter it looks like you were able to retain two-thirds of subaccount conversions better than the historical 25% conversion rate.
What drove this win rate and is this more indicative of win rates moving forward? Yes so Mike it's a good observation and a good question.
We dont actually control where the subaccounts land.
So broker-dealers go out and select somebody to do their sub-accounting and a number of broker-dealers have selected DST to do that.
As those broker-dealers convert assets whether it's from a DST platform or anybody else's platform they would end up on our sub-accounting platform.
Now historically we've said that we expect that 20% to 25% of sub-accounting de-conversions would end up on the DST platform.
To your point this quarter it was about 67% ended up on the DST platform.
I think that will normalize out our projections Mike would suggest that were going to be a little bit higher than that historical 20% to 25% for the year.
But I don't think we should expect that two-thirds of all sub-accounting conversions will end up on the DST platform.
And were there any tax advantage accounts that converted to sub-accounting this quarter and just what are your expectations for the number of tax advantage accounts that could convert through 2015? Yes Mike I mean the numbers for the quarter were not very big in total and so I am sure there were some tax advantage accounts I dont have that number right on the top of my head but again given the total volume it would be what I consider to be a relatively de minimis number.
The sub-accounting of tax advantage accounts I'd tell you story hasn't changed over what we've been talking about for the last couple of years.
There are some 529 accounts that are being sub-accounted and in some movement of IRA accounts but we've not seen a big movement there.
And then just switching over to Healthcare do you expect further Healthcare staffing cost in 2015 or is the build-out to support business process outsourcing services kind of complete after this quarter? No.
I expect we're going to continue to build out Mike.
So look we continue to make investments in expanding our clinical network and analytic capabilities right and all focused on being able to provide our customers and prospective customers the ability to manage outcomes for their members.
We're deploying solutions that are driving better clinical outcomes better financial results and that are helping our customers more effectively manage their member population.
And so that's a combination of both technology build-out and people build-out.
And again we've done a lot of it over the last 24 to 30 months and we're not quite done there.
And quite honestly the Healthcare business is a big focus area for us and so we're investing there and again I think we're starting to see the results.
I mean I'll be honest I was very pleased that in that business they largely overcame the loss of the significant customer from a revenue perspective and again I think that's largely due to the investments that we've made to expand our capabilities.
And then just real quick last just wondering if you expect to see any impact from Rite Aid's acquisition of EnvisionRx for Argus? Well I think it's an interesting opportunity.
I mean here's what I would tell you I think anytime there is disruption in the marketplace it creates opportunities for established players like Argus okay.
And again we're continuing to build-out to support not only our existing customers but prospective customers.
And so we thought it was an interesting transaction.
We'll obviously watch it closely but again we think that anytime there is disruption in the marketplace people that are established and committed generally tend to have opportunities come out of that.
Your next question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane of Band of America.
So 40% of the large client loss conversions happened in first quarter.
Sort of expecting not a lot of movement over the next couple of quarters or should we expect further declines in the second third and fourth quarters? Yes so David it's a good question.
Here is what I would tell you the large customer that did move the 40% of the business this was their Part D business.
Look they continue to be an important and strategic customer of ours right.
We're servicing all of their commercial business and we're a little bit unclear at this point on the exact schedule.
We have said previously that we expected it would move over the next 18 to 24 months.
And again I would just tell you that they are an important strategic customer of ours and we're doing everything we can to service them as well as we can and to help make them successful in the marketplace.
So I can't give you a lot guidance on what the future de-conversion plan looks like at this point.
And then do you have rough revenue and maybe EBITDA for Red Rocks? The revenue is its relatively small so less than $10 million but they have had nice AUM growth a little bit that again this is a technical term lumpy but their AUM growth over the past three years has been in the high-teen low-20 kind of percent.
So again we think it's a good acquisition.
We particularly like the fact that we knew Red Rocks because ALPS actually has an existing relationship with them and they have been a good partner of ours.
So were very pleased to be completing this transaction.
And then how is the new client pipeline in sub-accounting are there prospects out there that might look to outsource to you versus keeping their in-house sub-accounting systems? We've been very successful in the mid to smaller sized broker-dealers in being able to convert some of that business.
We are in discussions with a number of people but I would tell you two things.
Number one is the sales process on any decision like this is extremely elongated could be in the form of years.
And then I would tell you that the conversion process is also extremely elongated.
I would tell you somewhere between nine and 24 months to covert a significant book of business.
So were very pleased with the sub-accounting business.
We are getting organic growth out of it and again we had the discussion about two-thirds of the accounts coming off of our direct book or actually ending up on our sub-accounting book this quarter.
And were actively pursuing a number of opportunities but to try and pinpoint if they will close and when they will close and when wed see first dollar of revenue I don't think were really in a position to give that kind of forward guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale.
Give me a little bit more clarity on IFDS UK.
The way I understand the milestone recognition is that thats actually reimbursing you for prior development expense.
Can you clarify am I correct there? If so how much more could you collect? And if I am correct this is three quarters in a row now where we've seen some upside from milestone Red Rock? Anyway to think about it over next two years you might not be able to quantify it by quarter but really this is creating some upside in each of the last three quarters.
I just want to make sure that the consensus going forward is reflecting that this may or may not occur in the future? So let me there is -- you asked specifically about IFDS UK but let me talk to the IFDS segment Pete.
I would tell you there is three things happening there.
One is we've got an existing business right where we do in both Canada the UK Luxembourg Island where we do record keeping transfer agency in U.S.
term for collective funds right or different fund structures around or in those marketplaces.
That business has been very strong we've got a big established base that continues to have some organic growth but we've also been very successful the teams have been in attracting new clients there.
So I would tell you the base is continuing to grow and they are continuing to convert new customers again in a Canadian marketplace in the UK and in the offshore markets.
We then have the big wealth management conversions that we've talked about.
And there is really two components to that.
One is the ongoing running of the business.
And so we have converted certain parts of that business on to our platform and with that were getting consistent servicing revenues that you would expect us that you know us for right that we get in virtually all of our businesses.
And so again with the two big customers that were converting we've converted some of their business and thats turned into kind of an ongoing revenue stream and we continue to move accounts over.
And so that piece of the business is also growing.
The third piece which is the piece that you've touched on and we've talked about in the past is this development of the platform and you're correct we're spending money today.
We have people working in Australia and India in the UK to develop these platforms.
And then as Gregg talked about based on kind of project completion which is us completing and building some software delivering it to the customer and then accepting it.
We then have revenue recognition that comes through.
And this is why we said that we expect the earnings to be somewhat inconsistent.
And so it's hard for us to give you an exact kind of bogie but what I would tell you is first quarter was very strong and was consistent with both third quarter and fourth quarter of last year.
And Pete if I had to think about it based on what I know today and I would just caution that this could change based on again delivery and acceptance of big pieces of the system in code.
I think that the first quarter number should be a pretty good proxy for the rest of the year.
Now it may not -- the next three quarters may not lay right on top of that number but I think on an annualized basis I am pretty confident that first quarter is a pretty good proxy.
And then just one maintenance question Gregg shares outstanding at the end of the quarter not the way you would average which is the end of the period.
Can you give me that number? Pete its 37 million shares were outstanding at March 31 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Koning of Robert W.
Baird.
And I guess kind of piggybacking a little on what Pete was asking about I guess if we combine both IFDS and BFDS last year the EBITDA margin was like 9% which to us looks a lot like kind of low margin people based kind of business and a lot different than the margins I think you're getting a 20% plus usually from your core financial business.
I am just wondering right now there is a lot of turbulence with all the cost being built-out and rapid client ramps and stuff.
I mean is this like a 20% EBITDA margin type business overtime and how fast can revenue grow the next couple of years as well? Yes so I would tell you that I don't see it as a 20% kind of margin business and heres why? The joint venture revenue so IFDS and BFDS the predominant revenue there is BPO okay.
So particularly if you think about Boston Financial all they do is BPO they run DST I don't mean all but they run DST Technology and they do out full service outsourcing.
So the revenues in that business are much lower than a pure technology business.
That's also true in Canada and in the UK and so if you think about what we do in those businesses it is heavily people-oriented and we have lower margin expectations because of that.
So we would not expect that we could run that business at the same kinds of margins that we run DST.
I think you heard Gregg also comment our margins in our Healthcare sector were somewhat pressured this quarter due to a number of factors but one of which was mix of product right.
And one of the things that's happening in our Healthcare business is customers are asking us to outsource more of the transaction processing and hands-on kind of work that we do for them.
And just to be clear Dave right one of the goals that we have is providing our customers the opportunity to engage with us on a technology platform and a SaaS basis all the way through full service outsourcing because we think that gives them a runway to figure out how they want to manage their business.
And quite honestly I think a lot of our customers are looking at the term that I hear our customers using is variablizing their cost right.
And by outsourcing more to us they're able to variablize more of their costs and really put their onus on us to manage increases or decreases in volumes.
So it's a longwinded answer to no I dont think this is the joint ventures is a 20% margin business but I think they are in a fundamentally different business than DST is.
Now this is still it seems like a good growth business right now right.
I mean I know last year revenue growth combined was really strong and I would imagine you expect revenue growth to continue to be strong and margins at least to trend higher.
Is that fair to say? That is fair to say.
And you are right it has been a nice growth business for us.
Last year for the first time I'll look at my guys here but they crossed over $1 billion in revenue which is a great accomplishment for the joint ventures and the people that work there.
And quite honestly we like the trend.
And then I guess secondly Kasina I know you have closed I think you said in January and I know it's small revenue like 1 million or 2 million of revenue like how much maybe can you give us for Q1? Yes it was small.
I mean here is the play around Kasina right.
We have a number of tools that we deliver to our asset management customers around distribution support.
And Kasina had a great kind of consulting business and advisory business too our asset management clients and particularly the distribution side of the house.
And one of the things that we've found immediately is were engaging with the distribution side of our asset management clients in a much different way since Kasina came on.
And we think there is additional tools that we can build-out and capital that we can deploy to building solutions that will allow us deliver even more value to that part of our customers so.
In the first quarter the number revenue attributable directly to Kasina sub-$1 million but again thats not really the story right? The story is really around the access and the position that Kasina has with the distribution side of our customers.
And just finally what was revenue growth if you would exclude the large client de-conversion was it still like in the double-digits in Q1? I don't have that number.
We haven't also provided it because you have been backwarding to get into the -- what the revenues are in this.
Yes again I think the revenue growth you are talking about on our Healthcare business? Yes.
Yes the revenue growth in our Healthcare business would not be double-digits in the first quarter.
It was flat but we think -- can we give it to him? No.
Yes so thats not a number Dave that we've gone through and looked at.
But it was still good how is that? It was good because again as I said to overcome that loss of volume and remain flat year-over-year I think the teams did a good job of providing more services to existing customers and generating new revenue from new customers.
Well nice job getting your stock to go higher.
It's been great lately.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Ryan Davis with Credit Suisse.
Just real quick question around the capital structure and kind of thoughts around it I know you guys are on-record saying you are comfortable going to about 2 times EBITDA.
With the AR Securitization coming due here in May I know you guys planned to renew that.
Plus I think the Term A notes maybe 40 million also maturing in 2015 can you give us some thoughts around the plan there maybe stepping up the leverage and especially I guess with the monetization of assets coming dwindling down I don't know how many maybe five-six quarters left.
Just touch around the capital structure moving forward? Yes Ryan this is Gregg Givens.
Just a couple of comments on the capital structure you are right long-term Steve and I have been on the record saying that wed be comfortable having leverage in the 2 to 2.25 space to run the Company.
We are clearly quite a bit less than that right now.
We are approximately 1x leverage on the balance sheet right now.
We look at this as an opportunity in terms of flexibility that our balance sheet gives us in looking at our capital plan of investing in the business to return capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and then finally the opportunistic acquisitions.
And so that's the way we look at it we do have a few debt payments coming up in the course of this year but I don't see that movement changing the profile of our overall debt on our balance sheet.
And I mean I guess just to support the repurchase activity as we're kind of staring down may be the last five quarters of this 100 million monetization per quarter.
Is it potential debt raise could it coincide with that or I mean what are the thoughts around timing? Well we continue to analyze the capital plan and the timing of those kind of things we haven't given forward guidance on that.
The other thing I just shared with you is that you're focusing on the monetization activity that we're going through right now for non-operating assets.
But keep in mind that the base operating business flows off a little over 200 million free cash flow per year as well.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Steve Hooley for any closing remarks.
Good.
Well thank you very much for joining us I am pleased with our performance in the first quarter and the momentum we have going forward and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the companys views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the companys future results including those risk factors set forth in DSTs latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that maybe made.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you Christy.
Good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems second quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens.
I will start by going through some of the highlights for the quarter and then we will turn it over to Greg for additional detail on our financial results.
In the second quarter of 2015 consolidated net income was $107.5 million or $2.91 per diluted share.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income was $51.4 million or $1.39 per diluted share compared to $49.5 million or $1.20 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2014 a 15.8% increase over prior year.
Excluding the ongoing impact of the sale of Global Solutions in 2014 and the negative foreign currency movements revenue growth was 3.2% for the quarter.
The second quarter results reflect the ongoing revenue challenges we discussed in the first quarter namely the negative impact of foreign exchange the loss of significant revenue in healthcare due to a client de-conversion mutual fund sub-accounting and non-recurring software licenses coupled with the aggregation of many of the significant investments we have been making across a number of areas.
While we believe these investments are critical to the business they have collectively contributed to reduced operating margins which we expected to occur.
These investments include significantly growing our risk compliance audit and security functions.
We have also made major investments in infrastructure including at our data centers where we have upgraded not only the physical plant but also the software we use to run our business.
And finally we have continued to invest in the expansion of our service offerings across multiple segments and geographies.
Our reputation and relationships are what make DST a service provider of choice for our customers.
These investments will be ongoing and we view them as mission-critical in order to protect the integrity and security of the data on our systems as well as maintain full regulatory compliance for DST and for our customers.
Additionally we remain committed to investing in new service offerings to expand our value for the marketplace.
We are confident that these investments will generate expanded revenue opportunities in the future.
In the near-term we have been able to mitigate some of the impacts from each of these items through the improved performance of our operating joint ventures and our ongoing share repurchases.
However I do expect these strategic investments will continue to pressure margins in our businesses throughout the remainder of 2015.
Overall our goal is to advance our ability to deliver growth across each of our segments to create long-term value and drive continued profitability.
We are confident in our strategy and the ability of our teams to execute.
As we work to generate future growth through these investments we are also continuing to grow through acquisition.
On July 9 we announced the acquisition of Wealth Management Systems for a purchase price of $64 million.
Wealth Management Systems is a leading provider of technology-based retirement account rollover services and financial planning and education solutions for the retirement services industry a critical area as we think about the macro trend of the aging population.
Wealth Management Systems is connected to record keepers servicing over 12 million participants and provides automatic account rollover services to over 25 000 plan sponsors.
We will deliver this capability through DST Retirement Solutions further expanding our product offering and commitment to this important segment of the market.
Moving to our segment results in our Financial Services segment operating revenues decreased by $10.3 million or 3.7% compared to the second quarter of 2014.
As I mentioned the operating revenue decline is primarily due to the sale of Global Solutions in fourth quarter of 2014 as well as negative foreign currency movements.
Excluding Global Solutions and negative foreign currency consolidated operating revenues for Financial Services increased $9.1 million or 3.4% in the second quarter primarily driven by growth within our Brokerage Solutions ALPS and wealth platform service offerings.
I want to point out that the cost associated with many of our investments namely infrastructure risk compliance security and audit are substantially reflected within our Financial Services segment due to the way we run our business.
As a result this segment is being burdened with expense for these improvements.
However it is important to understand that the complimentary nature of our businesses  of our business segments allows us to leverage these upgrades and innovations in process and technology across the whole of DST.
Total mutual fund share in our accounts at June 30 2015 were $97.4 million a decrease of 500 000 accounts as compared to March 31 2015.
Conversions of registered accounts to sub-accounts are currently estimated to be at the low end or slightly below the companys previous guidance of 4 million to 5 million accounts in 2015.
As we discussed the blocks of accounts remaining on our system are relatively small.
As a result we do not expect to provide sub-accounting guidance after the fourth quarter of 2015 as the impacts of de-conversions are not expected to be significant.
Moving to our Healthcare Services segment during the second quarter we reported $92.1 million of operating revenues which is relatively flat year-over-year.
As we discussed previously our healthcare business had a client which de-converted approximately 40% of their business effective January 1.
There have been no additional de-conversions for this client during 2015.
I am pleased that the impact of this client de-conversion was largely offset through organic growth and on-boarding of new clients.
During the quarter we are also impacted by the shift in the mix of our business from higher margin pharmacy work that was replaced by lower margin medical claim full-service business process outsourcing work.
Trends in healthcare remain positive and we continue to believe there is significant opportunity within our Healthcare Services segment.
Customer communications operating revenues for the second quarter of 2015 increased $2.3 million to $154.8 million compared to second quarter 2014.
Excluding $5.8 million of negative foreign currency impacts customer communication operating revenues increased by $8.1 million.
During the quarter we continue to convert previously announced new clients which drove higher North American operating revenues.
Excluding foreign currency UK operating revenues increased from new and existing clients.
Our equity and unconsolidated affiliates was positively impacted by an increase in earnings from IFDS from the result of higher revenues from organic growth of existing customers and new client processing revenues.
In addition the positive growth in our historical business lines IFDS has also experienced increased revenues from the implementation and development efforts for the new Wealth Management platform clients.
As always we continually evaluate our capital plan to proactively manage our resource needs and determine the most effective and productive use of our assets.
During the second quarter of 2015 DST spent $75 million to repurchase approximately 600 000 shares of DST common stock.
As of June 30 2015 the company hit $150 million remaining under the existing share repurchase plan.
As we continue to make significant investments in organic initiatives and acquisitive growth to drive value we will be opportunistic with regard to share repurchases.
And with that I would now like to turn the call over to Gregg for a detailed discussion of our second quarter financial results.
Thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $107.5 million or $2.91 per diluted share.
This compares to net income of $137.8 million or $3.34 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2014.
The difference is primarily from lower gains from the sales of marketable securities in 2015.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP earnings per share this quarter was $1.39 an increase of $0.19 or 15.8% from second quarter of 2014.
The remainder of my comments will focus on our adjusted non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter decreased 1.8% or $9.2 million year-over-year to $500.4 million.
This was primarily due to the sale of our Global Solutions business which as you know was sold during the fourth quarter of 2014.
Excluding Global Solutions $15.4 million of second quarter 2014 operating revenues and $9.8 million of current quarter negative foreign currency impacts consolidated operating revenues increased by $16 million or 3.2% in the second quarter 2015 as compared to 2014.
Consolidated operating income decreased 8.6% or $6.5 million to $69.1 million.
The decrease was due to a combination of items.
First is a decrease in certain higher margin revenue items namely a decrease of mutual fund accounts processed the partial de-conversion of a health customer and a decrease in software license revenues.
Second is an increase in cost for security regulatory compliance and various other infrastructure enhancements.
Consolidated operating margins were 13.8% in the quarter as compared to 14.8% in the second quarter 2014.
Within the Financial Services segment operating revenues decreased by $10.3 million or 3.7%.
This was driven primarily by the sale of Global Solutions which contributed $15.4 million of operating revenue in second quarter of 2014 and negative foreign currency movements of $4 million.
Excluding the impact of these two items operating revenues increased $9.1 million or 3.4%.
The increase in revenues is primarily from organic and new client growth within Brokerage Solutions and year-over-year growth within ALPS due to higher assets under management.
These operating revenue increases continue to be partially offset by declines in mutual fund registered shareholder account processing due to lower registered accounts primarily as a result of sub-accounting conversions.
Financial Services income from operations decreased $14.9 million or 26% over the prior year quarter to $42.5 million.
The decrease was primarily due to increased technology security and regulatory compliance cost incurred to enhance our network infrastructure as well as higher cost associated with new business initiatives as we expand our Bluedoor Wealth Management platform into the UK market and make investments to further develop the ALPS Applied Analytics and Brokerage Solutions service offerings.
Also impacting operating income is a $3.1 million decrease in software license revenue as compared to the prior year.
Financial Services operating margin was 15.7% in the quarter which is a decrease from the 20.4% operating margin in the second quarter of last year.
The decrease is primarily due to a decrease in certain higher margin revenue items namely mutual fund account processing and software license revenue and higher cost from investments in new service offerings as well as increased infrastructure cost required to address the ever changing regulatory and technology dependent environment in which we operate.
Our Healthcare Services segment operating revenues were $92.1 million which was a slight decrease from second quarter 2014.
Lower pharmacy claims processing revenues resulting from a previously announced partial client de-conversion on January 1 of this year were essentially offset by organic growth at existing clients and higher software license sales.
During the second quarter Healthcare Services income from operations increased by $3.5 million to $10.2 million.
Excluding the impact of an incremental $5.7 million liability recorded during the second quarter of 2014 for processing there income from operations would have decreased $2.2 million.
The adjusted decrease is primarily a result of increased staffing cost incurred to expand our clinical network and analytic capabilities and to enhance our client service offerings in order to more effectively compete in the broader competitive PBM market.
Our staffing costs were also higher in order to service the increased medical transaction volumes due to growth in our business process outsourcing services which generally requires a higher level of support.
Our Healthcare Services operating margin for second quarter 2015 was 11.1% as compared to 7.2% in the second quarter of 2014.
Excluding the $5.7 million prior year incremental liability recorded in 2014 our operating margin declined 2.2%.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues increased year-over-year by $2.3 million to $154.8 million.
In North America operating revenues increased $4.8 million primarily from incremental volumes as we continue to convert business for the previously announced new clients.
These increases were partially offset by $1.1 million of unfavorable foreign currency movements in our Canadian operations.
Our UK operating revenues decreased $2.5 million or 5%.
Negative foreign currency movements reduced our UK operating revenues by $4.7 million for the quarter which was then partially offset by revenue growth from new and existing clients.
Overall Customer Communications operating income was $16.3 million an increase of $5.2 million from the same quarter last year.
Higher operating revenues and cost savings achieved from the 2014 closure of certain facilities in North America and higher operating revenues in the UK drove the increase in operating income.
Customer Communications segment operating margin for second quarter of 2015 was 10.5% as compared to 7.3% in 2014.
Our North America operating margin was 12.5% an increase over the 9.1% we had in the second quarter of 2014.
And in the UK our operating margin was 6% as compared to the 3.6% operating margin we had in the second quarter of 2014.
DSTs equity and earnings unconsolidated affiliates increased by $8.9 million to $12.8 million in the second quarter.
This increase was driven primarily driven by IFDS with an increase of $8.7 million.
The IFDS increase was from both higher client processing revenues and higher revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities of the previously announced a new Wealth Management clients in the UK.
We continue to expect earnings volatility throughout the implementation and the conversion process as these multi-year projects continue to evolve.
IFDS continues to incur significant cost to develop the new Wealth Management platform for further UK market and expand its infrastructure to prepare for the additional these clients and associated service offerings.
IFDS has been capitalizing a significant portion of the software development cost which will not begin to be amortized until the underlying models are put into production over the next couple of years.
Partially offsetting the higher IFDS operating results were negative foreign currency impacts from both UK and Canada.
Our income tax rate for the second quarter was 34.3% compared to 35% in the second quarter of 2014.
This is slightly below our full year estimate of 35.5% as a result of recognizing certain benefits for state tax law changes during the quarter.
During the second quarter we received $100.3 million of pretax cash proceeds from the monetization of investment assets resulting from the sale of $95.6 million of marketable securities of which $94.5 million was from the sale of State Street stock.
Additionally we received $600 000 from the sale of real estate assets and $4.1 million from private equity investment distributions.
Turning to our share count during the quarter the company spent $75 million to repurchase 647 000 shares of DST common stock.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 37 million shares a decrease of 10.2% from the second quarter of 2014.
As of June 30 DST had $150 million remaining under its existing share repurchase plan.
We closed the second quarter with $103 million of cash and $498 million of debt.
We are confident in our balance sheet position which will continue to provide flexibility to pursue a range of growth opportunities while maintaining a strong leverage ratio.
Before I conclude I would like to spend a little time covering our recently announced acquisition of Wealth Management Systems.
The purchase price of $64 million will be funded using the combination of cash and short-term borrowings on revolving credit lines.
This business had revenues of approximately $18 million for the last 12 months and on an earnings per share basis we estimate the transaction to be breakeven to DST in the first year.
I will now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great.
Thanks Gregg.
Before we open the call for questions I want to emphasize our focus on building DST for the future.
While we are taking near-term steps to help offset some of the financial impact of our investments in the businesses and industry challenges we are managing DST for the long-term.
We will support these organic efforts by capitalizing on additional opportunity to expand and enhance our service offering to our clients including synergistic acquisitions that expand our scale and capabilities.
We are moving forward cautious about our outlook for the remainder of 2015 which will continue to be pressured particularly as we continue through the early stages of our execution.
However we are absolutely confident in the capability and potential of each of our operating platforms.
With that I would like to now go ahead and open the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from David Togut of Evercore ISI.
Hi this is Anthony [indiscernible] on behalf of Davit Togut.
I was hoping you could talk about your outlook for Financial Services operating margin in the back half of the year? Yes sure Anthony.
I mean as we have discussed for a whole host of range you saw margins in the Financial Services business pressured.
And I would tell you that I think the margins that you saw this quarter are where we will run the second half of the year.
So I think we are going to be trending towards the mid-teens.
And again this is  we have got ongoing investments both in infrastructure and software and I would say most importantly in developing new capabilities for the business.
So I think thats what we are going to see for the balance of the year.
Okay great.
Thats helpful.
I guess in Healthcare Services could you give us what the underlying organic revenue growth rate was excluding the client de-conversion? Yes thats not a number that we disclose.
We have talked strictly about the volume right.
And so what we have said is that this client on January 1 de-converted about 40% of their volume which represented their Medicare Part D business.
So the good news is 60% of the volume is still on our platform.
They are a very important strategic customer of ours and we are continuing to work hard to make sure that they can be successful in the marketplace.
Okay thanks.
I suppose in terms of the IFDS earnings increase is that level of growth sustainable? Yes.
So the answer as we talked about last quarter you know we think last quarter for IFDS and we continue to use this technical term of lumpy.
We think that last quarter was a good proxy for the year for IFDS.
We dont expect that they will be continuing to see the kinds of increases that we have seen this quarter but again the way the revenue is coming through is based on development of the platform and then putting that into production.
So we dont expect to see the kinds of growth rate that we saw first quarter or second quarter and we still think that first quarter is a pretty good proxy for the year.
I do think and Gregg mentioned it in his comments we will see a decline in equity in earnings from IFDS next year as we start to feel the impacts of the depreciation.
Okay thanks.
Just finally for me when will the DST Board of Directors meet to consider potential dividend increase? You know we meet on a regular basis.
And as I think Gregg has articulated consistently we are constantly looking at our capital position and looking at every possible angle to increase shareholder value so.
Okay.
How large of a dividend increase would you anticipate through 2016? Yes.
Anthony we are not going to speculate on dividend increases or anything that the Board might decide.
Okay alright.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Your next question is coming from Peter Heckmann of Avondale.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning Pete.
I wanted to see if you could give us qualitative commentary about your views on consolidation in the health insurance sector.
I know you have some customer concentration within the Health Solutions segment one or two fairly large announced deals and potentially another deal pending without again identifying any customers.
How do you feel that you are protected in terms of long-term contracts? How do you feel that you would compete to the extent that some of those contracts are consolidated with the merged customer? Yes its a very topical question Pete.
So I want to be careful I dont want to speculate on speculation right.
So I will try and keep my comments to what I know.
So first you know I think you probably saw that on June 18 we announced that one of our largest healthcare clients extended our contract for 5 years through 2020.
This customer has been a client of ours since 2005.
We have got a great relationship with them.
They are extremely successful in the markets that they serve which predominantly are the government markets.
So we are very pleased to have announced that and to have that contract extension signed and in place.
Clearly there is a lot going on in the healthcare space and particularly if you look at the PBM space.
And here is what I tell you Pete we continue to believe given the position that we have in the marketplace that disruption in that marketplace and change in that marketplace creates opportunities for players like DST.
So I expect the question from yourself or one of the other analysts around this announced client de-conversion as we have said 40% of the accounts went out on January 1.
And as we commented earlier we have seen no further de-conversions this year.
I really cant give you forward look at that because these things move about a bit.
And I would tell you that again this is the customer that had announced a full de-conversion is an important and strategic partner of ours.
And so I would say that again we dont  we cant speculate on the rest of 2015 or 2016 but to-date there have been no further de-conversions.
So again I think the marketplace is going through significant disruption.
I think whatever happens Pete it wont be in the short-term right? These things will take 24 to 36 months to play out.
And we continue to believe that we are in a very good position to capitalize on some of this market dislocation.
Thats helpful.
Thats helpful okay.
And then noting your comments from last quarter as regards the ALPS business and some of the focus on energy and commodities I was surprised to see that AUA held up pretty well sequentially.
Can you talk about whether that was from gains in other areas and then as well can you talk about some of the discussion about  more recent discussion about basically illiquid investments held within ETFs and are there ways that DST can help ETF providers mitigate some of the security concerns? Yes.
So it is interesting and we are exposed to the commodity and energy markets and they continue to be pressured.
We mentioned Pete probably starting five or six quarters ago that we are making investments in ALPS on a couple of fronts right.
One was in the systems infrastructure that we use on the services side of the business at ALPS.
And the other place was in the distribution side of that business right where we made some pretty significant  where we have been making pretty significant enhancements to expand our distribution capability.
And that expense has been coming through as we build that up and what we are starting to see is the  we are starting to see the benefit from that right through enhanced flows.
So what I would tell you without being too optimistic here is the teams have done a good job selling into the marketplace of the products that we have even though the underlying investment types are pressured.
So we feel like when those markets rebound and they will I cant tell you when.
We feel like we are in pretty good shape.
I mean I know the word that Gregg used likes to use is that we are a little bit spring loaded in the asset management side of that business.
So we do feel good about the progress that they are making.
Look the growth rate is not what we had hoped it would be this year but we also didnt predict the kind of pressure on the markets there at ALPS.
As it relates to ETFs I think you know ALPS does a great job of servicing ETFs and so we have got both product that we manage and distribute as well as servicing.
And the ETF market continues to have great top line growth.
And again we think its important for DST to have exposure through it and that was again goes back to the part of the thesis of why we did the ALPS deal when we did it.
Got it.
My last question I will get back in the queue.
But there is a sequential decline of about 1 million participants on the 401(k) side will that be just normal purging accounts or was there a loss customer? No.
Pete its the April purge right.
So I and you know thats right we were required to hold all accounts through the year end tax reporting.
And then April beginning of May every year we have a purge where we take all those accounts inactive accounts where we have completed the tax reporting for the year and we take them off the system.
So here is what I would tell you was the 1 million accounts was we obviously have some visibility into it.
I would say going into the third quarter of last year we did not think it would be that high we thought it will be more 600 000 to 700 000.
So it was bigger than we had expected.
So it is normal activity and in some ways it makes the year-over-year comparison a little bit challenging in that business because I would tell you the underlying part of the business is running quite well and we have had some nice organic growth.
And again I think part of the reason we did the Wealth Management transaction was to expand even further our service offering in the retirement space.
Got it helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Ridley-Lane of Merrill Lynch.
Sure.
Just following up on that given the WMSI acquisition for perspective whats the rough size of DSTs existing retirement business? Yes.
We dont break that out David.
Its part of our overall Financial Services segment.
The Wealth Management systems business is a  not a  Gregg has just given me.
Yes.
So we have got about 6.4 million accounts.
These guys have access to $33 million participants that they service and 25 000 plan sponsors.
And so we think there is kind of two way leverage here right.
One is we are obviously going to have access to the participants and plan sponsors that they service and conversely we are going to more deeply embed their capabilities into our platforms which will give them  give the newly acquired entity access to our 6.4 million participants.
So we think its a good synergistic play and the revenues forward you can think about roughly in the $20 million a year kind of range.
Got it.
And then are you still tracking towards mid-teens operating margin in the Healthcare segment for full year 2015 I know there is a fair amount of seasonality in that segments margin? Yes.
We have said that we expect that business would run in the mid-teens and I would tell you that we are expecting to track that in 2015 on a full year basis.
Great.
I had a quick question for Gregg the margin decline if you  a rough way of thinking about it how much of it is just the mix shift to lower margin revenue and how much of it is related to these regulatory IT and growth investments? Well we have analyzed that and we have analyzed it by segment.
Of course Financial Services segment was the one that had the biggest movements in margins because of what Steve talked about earlier  before is a lot of the infrastructure investment is embedded in that segment although it benefits the company as a whole.
But we just slowly looked at Financial Services segment I will tell you about 40% of the margin movement was related to the revenue shifts and the remainder is related to the cost investments.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Yes thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Adam Dahms of Baird.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I guess first off on the financial services margins I know you guys called out mid-teens expectations for the rest of 2015 but can you talk a little bit about how long this investment cycle is is it  should it start to abate in 2016 and we see better margins there how should we look at that? Yes.
So Adam I would tell you the investments  I mean I dont think the investment cycle is going to abate and here is why.
Right if you think about the areas of credit  I am sorry of risk and compliance security and audit those are embedded costs right.
And it comes in the form of people that we have hired to build out and bulk up all of those organizations as well as technology that we have been either developing or acquiring and putting into production.
And so those  I view those costs as built into our baseline expense and they will be ongoing now.
Are we done with the buildup I think thats going to start to abate but I would tell you we operate in very highly regulated businesses in both Healthcare and Financial Services.
And I can guarantee that the regulation it will continue and we will continue to stay ahead of that to protect ourselves and our customers okay.
The other place that you will see in the buildup is in the new business right and new business capabilities.
And what I would tell you there is I know there is always the question of hey when are we going to see the revenue you are spending money to develop new capabilities when does the revenue come through.
And its never a one-to-one relationship right.
I would tell you that if you look at what we have been doing with our wealth platform in Australia we have clearly seen the benefit coming through the joint ventures in the UK as we take that platform and anglicize it for that wealth market in the UK.
I would also tell you that again there may not be a one-to-one relationship but the fact that we are able to extend for 5 years a relationship with one of our largest healthcare customers is in partly due to the fact that we have continued to build out our capability in that space.
We continue to bring on new capabilities and expand our capabilities.
And again I cant give you the one-to-one relationship but I can tell you if we are not investing we start to fall behind.
Sophisticated customers like that will think twice about working with us so we are not going to allow that to happen.
And then finally in the brokerage space we have started to see some nice organic growth there or have seen for the past couple of years nice organic growth there.
And that team has done a great job of rounding out a much broader service offering including clearing operation and looking at things like account on boarding solutions for broker dealers and advisers that again I think is positioning us well in the marketplace.
And so there is a little bit of we are going to invest for the long-term I dont expect that next year you are going to see us decline in the investments that we are making.
And at the same time we are going to bring revenue on and try and work on getting those margins back up.
Thats really helpful.
Thanks.
And then real quick on Healthcare I know you guys said dont have kind of any color on de-conversions going forward there but I am just curious how much of a heads up do you guys expect to get if they do decide to de-convert another piece of that business.
And then I guess is there any scenario where you guys do keep some of that business going forward? Yes.
Listen as I have said they are a great strategic partner of ours and we will get heads-up.
You dont get kind of a call on a Monday and plan to convert plans on a Thursday.
So we will have  I would say at least a quarters view of whats going to happen.
And you know relative to speculation on whether we might keep some of that business or not again I prefer not to speculate other than to say they are an important customer of ours and we are working very hard to make sure they are well-positioned to be successful in their market.
Great.
Great thanks guys.
You bet.
Thank you.
At this time we have no further questions.
I will turn the call back over to Mr.
Steve Hooley for any additional or closing remarks.
Well great.
Thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude todays teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the Companys views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the Companys future results including those risk factors set forth in DSTs latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you Laurie.
Well good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems third quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens.
Im going to start by going through some of the highlights for the quarter and then well turn the call over to Greg for additional detail on our financial results.
In the third quarter of 2015 consolidated net income was $75.1 million or $2.08 per diluted share.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income was $53.9 million or $1.49 per diluted share compared to $61.2 million or $1.54 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2014.
Excluding the ongoing impact of the sale of Global Solutions in the fourth quarter of 2014 and negative foreign currency movements revenue growth was 4.7% for the quarter.
The third quarter results reflected continued impact of revenue growth from new clients and recently completed acquisitions offset by the partial de-conversion of the healthcare client we have previously disclosed.
In addition as weve discussed in prior quarters we are continuing to make significant investments across a number of areas to expand our service offerings.
The investments protect the integrity and security of the data in our systems maintain regulatory compliance and update our infrastructure plateaued during Q2 of 2015 and should remain near current levels.
As we view this as we view our responsibility to our clients and shareholders in this area as a top priority.
These investments have impacted operating margins however we are confident in the long-term outlook for our businesses and the opportunities available to help mitigate the impact of these investments by leveraging the value across all of our business segments.
Overall our goal is to continue to improve margins in each of our segments while realizing operational efficiencies to drive continued profitability.
We believe in our strategy and the ability of our team to execute it.
As we work to generate future growth through these direct investments in our business we are also continuing to grow through acquisitions.
This quarter we completed the acquisition of Red Rocks Capital LLC in July and in August we closed on Wealth Management Systems.
Were in the process of integrating both businesses and continue to identify ways to opportunistically add complementary businesses products and new strengths across our company.
Moving to our segment results in our Financial Services segment operating revenues decreased by $9.3 million or 3.3% compared to the third quarter of 2014.
As I mentioned the operating revenue decline is primarily due to the sale of Global Solutions in fourth quarter of 2014.
Excluding Global Solutions and negative foreign currency impacts during 2015 consolidated operating revenues for Financial Services increased $16 million or 6.1% in the third quarter primarily driven from organic and new client growth within retirement and brokerage solutions and increased development revenues at Bluedoor.
Our ALPS business continues to be negatively impacted by the declining energy and commodity markets.
However we remain committed to our strategy at ALPS and expect to continue to make investments in this area as evidenced by our recent acquisition of Red Rocks.
Total mutual fund share in our accounts at September 30 2015 were $96.8 million a decrease of one million accounts as compared to September 30 2015.
Conversions of registered accounts to sub-accounts are currently estimated to be approximately 2.5 million to 3.5 million accounts in 2015 which is below the Companys previous guidance of four million to five million accounts.
As we have discussed the blocks of accounts remaining on our system are relatively small.
We do not expect to provide sub-accounting guidance after the fourth quarter of 2015 as the impacts of de-conversions are not expected to be significant.
In our Healthcare Services segment during the third quarter we reported $94 million of operating revenues which decreased slightly from third quarter 2014 primarily due to lower pharmacy claims processing revenues resulting from the previously announced de-conversion of Cygnus Medicare Part D business on January 1 2015.
The balance of Cygnus business was scheduled to de-convert during 2015 and 2016.
Were very pleased to announce that Cigna which is one of our largest healthcare clients has extended their relationship with us for the administrative management of their commercial pharmacy claims business under a multiyear agreement.
Were excited to renew our relationship with Cigna and to help support their ongoing efforts to drive improved affordability and better health outcomes for their customers.
We believe this decision by one of our largest healthcare clients validates the strategy we have pursued in the investments we have made over the past three years in our healthcare business.
Customer communications operating revenues for the third quarter of 2015 increased $3.2 million to $153.3 million compared to third quarter 2014.
Excluding unfavorable foreign currency movements operating revenues increased $8.7 million primarily due to the conversion of previously announced new clients.
We also continue to be pleased with the margin expansion in our North American Customer Communications business.
Our equity and unconsolidated affiliates increased primarily from higher IFDS earnings.
The increase in IFDS earnings is largely from higher revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities organic growth at existing customers and new client processing revenue.
Partially offsetting the increase revenues are higher operating costs as IFDS expands its infrastructure to prepare for the additional new clients and associated service offerings as well as negative foreign currency impacts in both UK and Canada.
And finally we view the market dynamics during the quarter as an opportunity to repurchase a significant amount of DSTs stock.
During the third quarter of 2015 DST spent a $175 million to repurchase approximately 1.6 million shares of DST common stock.
Were confident in the direction of our business and the strategy underway to continue creating long-term value.
As of September 30 2015 the company had $225 million remaining under the existing share repurchase plan.
We continue to evaluate our capital plan on an ongoing basis with the goal of proactively managing our resource needs to determine the most effective and productive use of our assets.
As part of this plan weve had a consistent and successful track record of monetizing the companys non-operating assets which has generated over a $1 billion in proceeds over the last three years.
The levels of monetization will decline in 2016 as the majority of our liquid assets had been monetized.
At the same time we continue to make significant investments in organic initiatives and accusative growth to drive value and we will continue to be opportunistic with regard to continued share repurchases.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Gregg Givens for a detail discussion of our third quarter financial results.
Well thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $75.1 million or $2.08 per diluted share.
This compares to $100 million of net income or $2.51 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2014.
The year-over-year decline was primarily due to lower realized gains on the sale of securities as a result of fewer sales of investments during 2015.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP earnings per share were $1.49 a decrease $0.05 or 3.2% from third quarter of 2014.
The remainder of my comments will focus on our adjusted non-GAAP results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter decreased 1.5% or $7.9 million year-over-year to $502.6 million.
Primarily due to the sale of our Global Solutions business which as you know was sold during the fourth quarter of 2014.
Excluding Global Solutions $19.4 million of third quarter 2014 operating revenues and $11.4 million of negative foreign currency impacts consolidated operating revenues increased by $22.9 million or 4.7% in the third quarter 2015 as compared to 2014.
Consolidated operating income decreased 12.4% or $10.7 million to $75.7 million.
$4.6 million of this decline is a result of the sale of Global Solutions.
Operating income this quarter was also negatively impacted by a decrease in certain higher margin revenue item such as the decrease in mutual fund accounts processed and the partial de-conversion of health customer at the beginning of this year.
Additionally costs have continued increase for security regulatory compliance and various other infrastructure enhancements.
Consolidated operating margins were 15.1% in the quarter as compared to 16.9% in the third quarter of 2014.
Within the Financial Services segment operating revenues decreased by $9.3 million or 3.3%.
This was primarily driven by the sale of Global Solutions which contributed $19.4 million of operating revenues in third quarter of 2014.
Excluding Global Solutions 2014 results and the 2015 negative foreign currency impacts operating revenues increased $16 million or 6.1% in the third quarter of 2015 as compared to the third quarter of 2014.
This growth was primarily from organic and new client growth within brokerage retirement solutions and increased professional services revenues at Bluedoor.
Also we had an increase in revenues from the three businesses we acquired during 2015 as they contributed $3.4 million of incremental operating revenues during the quarter.
The operating revenue increases continue to be partially offset by declines in mutual fund registered [shareholder] (ph) account processing due to lower registered accounts.
Financial Services income from operations decreased $10.8 million or 18.1% from the prior year quarter to $49 million.
There are four primary drivers causing the decrease in operating income.
First is the sale of Global Solutions; second is the higher cost associated with new business initiatives and investments in new service offerings including the expansion of our Bluedoor Wealth Management platform into the UK market.
Third is the increased technology surety and regulatory compliance costs incurred to enhance our network infrastructures.
And the fourth and final items is a total of $2 million cost increases due to the amortization of acquired intangibles and the expenses for the performance based contingent consideration resulting from our 2015 acquisitions.
Financial Services operating margin was 17.9% in the quarter which is a decrease from the 21.2% operating margin in the third quarter of last year but an improvement from the 15.7% reported in second quarter of 2015.
Our Healthcare Services segment operating revenues were $94 million a decrease of $1.5 million or 1.6% from third quarter of 2014.
The decrease is primarily due to lower pharmacy claims processing revenues resulting from the de-conversion of Cygnus Medicare Part D business at the beginning of this year.
The decrease in operating revenues was effectively offset by organic growth at existing clients.
During the third quarter healthcare services income from operations decreased by $2.4 million to $13.2 million.
The decrease is primarily a function of a mix in revenues.
On one hand we have lower pharmacy claims processing revenues which tend to carry a higher margin and on the other hand we have higher medical claims BPO revenue which tend to have lower operating margin.
The combination of these two factors had the effect of reducing operating income for the quarter.
Operating margin for the third quarter of 2015 was 14% as compared to 16.3% in the third quarter of 2014.
In our Customer Communication segment operating revenues increased year-over-year by $3.2 million to a $153.3 million.
The primary driver is form the incremental volumes that have been converting on to the platform since the fourth quarter of 2014 for the previously announced new clients.
These increases were partially offset by $5.5 million in unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements in our Canadian and UK operations.
Overall customer communications operating income were $13.2 million - of $2.7 million from the same quarter last year.
Higher operating revenues coupled with the cost savings achieved from the 2014 closure of certain facilities in North America drove the increase in operating income.
Customer Communications segment operating margin for the third quarter of 2015 was 8.6% as compared to 7% in 2014 driven by improved margins in North America and partially offset by decline in UK margins.
DSTs equity and earnings of our unconsolidated affiliates increased by $1.6 million to $11.8 million this increase was driven primarily from higher IFDS earnings.
IFDS increased by $1.4 million to $8.6 million in the third quarter primarily from higher revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities of previously announced new wealth management clients in the UK.
Partially offsetting the increase was higher operating cost as IFDS expands its infrastructure in both the UK and Canada.
We continue to expect earnings volatility throughout the implementation of the conversion process as these multiyear projects continue to evolve.
Beginning in the third quarter of 2014 IFDS began capitalizing a significant portion of the software development cost which will begin to be amortized as the assets are put into production over the next couple of years.
Partially offsetting the higher IFDS operating results were negative foreign currency impacts in both the UK and Canada.
Our income tax rate for the third quarter was 33.5% compared to 33.7% in the third quarter of 2014.
We currently expect our full-year estimated income tax rate excluding the effect of discreet period items to be approximately 35%.
During the quarter we received $22 million pre-tax cash proceeds from the monetization of investment assets.
$19.3 million of this was from private equity investment distributions with a remainder coming from the sale of marketable securities and the sale of real estate assets.
During the third quarter we purposely slowed our monetization activities in anticipation of two sale leaseback transactions.
Subsequent to quarter end we completed a sale leaseback transaction for our three U.S.
customer communications production facilities and entered into an agreement for the sale leaseback of our Canadian facility.
Proceeds from the transactions will approximate $129 million.
Net proceeds after applicable cash taxes and transaction cost are expected to be approximately $107 million.
After taking into account the new lease expense which will be offset by the amortization of the deferred gain resulting from the transactions and the future reduction depreciation expense the transactions are expected to be $0.02 dilutive to EPS on an annual basis.
The sale leaseback transactions provided a unique opportunity to reallocate capital as part of the Companys overall capital plan.
Turning to our share count during the quarter the company spent $175 million to repurchase approximately 1.6 million shares of DST common stock.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 36.2 million a decrease of 9% from the third quarter of 2014.
As of September 30 DST had $225 million remaining under our existing share repurchase plan.
With close to third quarter of $152.6 million of cash and $765.2 million of debt our debt balances has increased $267 million during the quarter primarily from the $175 million of share repurchases and the $110 million of funding for the acquisitions of Red Rocks Capital and Wealth Management.
Ill now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great.
Thanks Gregg.
DST is continuing to take steps to perform and create value over the long-term and were pleased with our performance to-date.
Were confident that we have the right strategy in place and the right team executing to deliver on our objectives.
I would now like to go ahead and open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Ridley-Lane of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Sure good morning.
A question on the assets under management figure of period ended.
Does that include the Red Rocks AUM and then it means you have it what was the rough capital movement excluding price action in the quarter? So David Ill take the AUM question and ask Gregg to handle a second one.
So that does include the Red Rocks assets under management.
However what I tell you is recall we mentioned Red Rocks had about $2 billion of assets under management but about 500 million of it were assets are managing on behalf operating ALPS prior to the transaction.
So the net move there is about $1.5 billion to the positive.
The other thing I would tell you is youve seen a decline in that number sequentially here and again as we've talked about ALPS is pretty heavily exposed to the energy and commodity markets and we continue to see downdraft there.
The good news is that sales teams are actually doing a very good job.
So another metric that we look at is actually units and so while AUM is declining were actually seeing an increase in units.
And so as Gregg Givens would like to say we feel like were pretty spring loaded when those markets turnaround and I dont know when that will be but were excited about the asset management business at ALPS and plan to continue investing in it.
Gregg did you have a response on the second part? So David we had $15.2 billion of assets under management at the close of June 30 and net market movements and flow movements decrease that AUM by directionally $2.2 billion and then we picked up an additional $1.1 billion net from the acquisition of Red Rocks so that took us back up to $14.1 billion at September 30.
Got it.
And then how is the early receptivity been for the new brokerage solutions the clearing [indiscernible] offering and was that kind of the largest driver of growth in the financial services segment this quarter? So first if all the receptivity weve had a couple of what I consider to be kind of mid-size opportunities that weve executed on.
Were still building out the full solution there.
At this point David it has not been a driver of the revenue growth within the financial services.
The real driver there has been kind of a core sub-accounting platform as well as the retirement businesses has seen some nice growth.
We talk about the fact that ALPS has been under pressure but were still seeing net growth out of ALPS it's just not at the same level that its been for the last few years.
So look were still kind of early days early innings if you will on that clearing business.
Got it.
And one last one you mentioned you're still on the outlook for acquisitions.
Do you feel like you have to pause that to get to the two completed or sort of integrated and on track or are you ready for now right now? Thanks.
Look on the integrations kind of the nice thing here is that they were done in two separate business units.
One in our retirement business and again the Wealth Management Services business that we brought in as a business that we know and a business that we interacted prior of the acquisition and so were excited to have John Geli and his team onboard.
And again feel like there is a fair amount that we can do with our clients in that retirement space.
The other acquisition was done in ALPS and again weve got a completely separate management team with a different group working on the integration there and I dont feel as though we've put undue pressure on anyone of the organizations within the company and so we feel like were well positioned.
Thank you very much.
You bet thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good Morning.
Good Morning.
Steve a Couple of questions in the healthcare segment.
You saw a real nice sequential uptick in covered lives is that just organic or were there any new customer adds or just organic growth within your current customers? Yes it's organic growth Pete and again I think its actually the quality of the client base that we have.
Right our customers are doing an excellent job with their customers and were a beneficiary of that.
So it's purely organic.
Got it okay.
And then a follow-up congratulations on the renewal of Cigna.
Can you talk about the distinction of is there a different type of insured in the 40% versus the 60% you are keeping versus commercial government insured or anything that would explain how they bifurcated that? And then as well I think you answered the question but just to make sure is there still the possibility that you could get some of those volumes back that already de-converted on Jan 1? Sure so first of all let me just tell you I think that our team in the healthcare side is doing an excellent job and weve been on a strategy for three or so years and weve been making investments from our perspective the decision earlier this year by Humana and now this decision by Cigna we believe validate the strategy weve been pursuing and the investments that we've made.
So the bifurcation if you recall go back to January 1 Cigna moved their Medicare Part D business off of our platform and what we held at that point was the commercial business and weve been updating you that the commercial business was schedule to move between 2015 and 2016.
Weve been updating you that we hadnt seen any movements for those quarters we had been obviously in discussions with Cigna that culminated just this week with the signing of the contract.
So were going to keep the commercial business that was about 60% of what was scheduled to de-convert.
So thinking about a little bit differently Pete we expected to lose another 15 million or so lives during 2015 and 2016 which we would have to overcome - Im sorry not lives but 15% of our overall claims which we would have had to overcome.
Were now going to keep that 15% of the claims and so as I think about 2016 what I hope and expect is that were going to have a base that we can grow off of.
So well keep the commercial claims and we are planning to do a fabulous job for Cigna were appreciative of their commitment and their faith in us.
And they are obviously publically involved in another transaction and as weve said consistently whenever there is disruption in the market we think there is an opportunity for us and we think that the model that were pursuing is proving to be accepted by the marketplace.
I appreciate it.
Ill get back in the queue.
Your next question comes from the line of David Togut of Evercore ISI.
Hi this is Anthony Cyganovich on for David Togut.
I was hoping you could talk about what drove your financial services EBIT margins to 18% which was kind of above your mid-teens expectation and kind of what you expect for the margins 4Q 2015 and 2016 in financial services? Yes sure Anthony.
We dont talk about forward margin projections but I would tell you the EBIT margin look we had some nice revenue growth if you normalize out the Global Solutions the sale of that business as well as the impact of foreign exchange.
I would just also tell you weve done a nice job on cost containment and really operating efficiencies.
And so weve got very good operators in that part of our business as we do in all of our businesses and they have done a nice job this quarter in really trying to expand their operating margins which falls right through the EBITDA line.
So it's nothing more than some revenue expansion with an intense focus on operating efficiency and operating leverage.
Okay thanks.
Could you kind of quantify the earnings impact from IFDS for the remaining on boarding of client contracts in the UK? Yes again we dont give forward guidance on that.
What I would tell you is I think the important point on IFDS is youve seen a significant uptick this year in the income from IFDS thats flowing through our financials.
As Gregg mentioned we do not expect this level of income during 2016 right.
Weve been recognizing revenue based income delivery of the platform and weve been capitalizing the software developments.
So were going to start to see that depreciation flow through as the system has put into production and so next year we expect to see some downdraft in the IFDS financials.
Okay thanks.
I noticed your long-term debt and your balance sheet increase this quarter will you continue to add debt to finance larger share repurchases? So Anthony we dont really comment on in terms of what are our expectations are in terms of capital going forward.
We are very capital conscious in terms of our allocation we do the analysis I think we have a good track record in terms of executing on our share repurchases and managing our debt levels.
The increase in this quarter came principally from the fact that we did have $175 million of share repurchases and also the $110 million of funding that we had for the Red Rocks acquisition and the Wealth Management acquisition.
Okay great.
Just one last question could you quantify kind of the revenue in earnings benefits from retaining the rest of the clients revenue that was expected to de-convert? Yes.
The reason we talk about kind of operating metrics Anthony is we do not disclose anything relative to revenue on any specific clients or any specific client contracts.
Okay thats fair.
Thanks a lot guys.
Great.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Koning of Baird.
Hey guys its Adam Dahms on for Dave Koning.
How is it going? Good thanks Adam.
First question I guess on Cigna it seems like the 40% the de-converted January 1 nothing else has come off in the 60% stand so that creates a pretty clean anniversary at the end of 2015 and we should get back to normal underlying growth in 2016 is that right? Yes I think thats the right way to think about it.
And then a couple of quarters ago I think the commentary was sort of 10% plus underlying growth in healthcare it seems like maybe thats sort of high single-digit.
Is that a fair way to think about what you guys are seeing in the underlying growth there right now? Yes that is I would say that really hasnt changed.
Thats a good number.
Okay.
And then in terms of I guess the pace of asset sales or I guess maybe just better to talk about it from a buyback perspective you guys have been doing 100 million a quarter buying back stock that went down this quarter.
Was there any reason you chose to use debt over selling off assets that are still on the balance sheet? So Adam we purposely slowed our monetizations in the third quarter in anticipation of closing this two sale leaseback transactions which drifted into October and what were going to have directionally $107 million of net cash proceeds will come up sale leaseback transactions.
I guess I would also add though Adam that we do view the capital of the company as a fungible pool.
So we clearly had capacity to go up on our debt lines.
As I mentioned in my commentary people should expect that our monetization is going to slow dramatically next year because quite honestly were getting to the end of our kind of available for sale securities.
And so again I think Gregg and his team do an excellent job of managing the capital pool in total and well continue to pull leverage there as we see whats in the best interest of the Company and our shareholders.
Yes that totally make sense.
And then I guess just one last one on share count.
If I just look at the sequential decline it was not too dissimilar to what we saw in Q2 even though you guys bought back a lot more shares I guess that makes me think it was waited towards the end of the quarter.
I guess the short question is do you have the end of quarter share count? I do it's 34.9 million shares outstanding at September 30 2015.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot guys and congrats again on the Cigna renewal.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ill now turn the call to Mr.
Steve Hooley for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you very much again were very pleased with the quarter and appreciate everyone listening in.
We look forward to updating you at the end of the year.
Thank you.
That does conclude the DST Systems third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DST Systems Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines have been placed on a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions].
In the course of this conference call today forward-looking statements may be made regarding DST and its businesses.
Such statements are based on the Companys views as of today and actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could affect the Companys future results including those risk factors set forth in DSTs latest annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
All such factors should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements that may be made.
Now I would like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Steve Hooley Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer of DST.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you very much.
Well good morning and thank you for joining DST Systems fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
With me today is our Chief Financial Officer Gregg Givens.
Im going to start by going through some of the highlights for the quarter and then well turn the call over to Greg for additional detail on our financial results.
Overall we are pleased with our fourth quarter and full year 2015 operating results which included significant new client wins in our Financial Services area as well as renewals from two of our largest healthcare customers.
We migrated significant volume on to our UK wealth platform and are preparing for the next phases of development.
In Customer Communications we substantially completed the conversion of a significant client and reached double-digit operating margins.
We are excited to have positive momentum as we head into 2016.
Looking at the fourth quarter consolidated net income attributable to DST was $67.8 million or $1.94 per diluted share.
On a non-GAAP basis consolidated net income attributable to DST was $58.4 million or $1.67 per diluted share compared to $66.4 million or $1.73 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2014.
On a full-year basis non-GAAP diluted earnings per share totaled $5.94 per diluted share in 2015 as compared to $5.55 per diluted share in 2014 an increase of 7%.
We continue to successfully execute on our strategic objectives and we remain on a steady path forward in that regard.
Our fourth quarter results reflect the continued impact of revenue growth from new and existing clients as well as growth through our recently completed acquisitions.
As expected our results continue to reflect the impact of a number of items we have been discussing over recent quarters including the sale of DST Global Solutions in the fourth quarter of 2014 negative foreign currency movements and higher costs related to our ongoing investments and continued focus on security regulatory compliance and other essential infrastructure.
Going forward we expect these investments to remain near current levels.
While these items have impacted operating margins we are confident in the long-term outlook for our business and the opportunities available to help mitigate the impact of these investments by leveraging the value across all of our segments.
Before moving into the results I want to review a few highlights from the quarter and the year.
During the fourth quarter our Financial Services signed a significant new client who will utilize both our subaccounting solution and our mutual fund servicing solution.
The initial contracts for these services in both instances is 10 years and based on current volumes this new client is expected to convert approximately 10 million subaccounts on to our platform by the end of 2016 and approximately 2.3 million registered accounts by the end of 2017.
Implementation efforts will result in increased cost as we convert the client onto our platform over the course of 2016 and 2017.
IFDS UK successfully migrated a significant portion of accounts onto our wealth management platform during the fourth quarter which represents a significant milestone in the multiyear implementation efforts to convert the previously announced new clients.
During the year we also made several important acquisitions including our pending acquisition of Kaufman Rossin Fund Services.
This acquisition fits well into our vision to opportunistically add complimentary business products and strengths to our existing portfolio.
In addition the operations when combined with our ELSA operations are expected to enable us to expand our service offering into some of the fastest growing segments of alternative investment administration and it will make us the top-20 provider in the hedge fund administration business.
Our other 2015 acquisitions kasina LLC Red Rocks Capital LLC and Wealth Management Systems continue to be integrated into our existing operations and we expect them to further expand our capabilities and contribute to our financial results in 2016 and beyond.
Moving to our segment results for the quarter in our Financial Services segment operating revenues for the fourth quarter of 2015 were flat compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
As I mentioned operating revenue declined as a result of the sale of global solutions in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Excluding this and the negative foreign currency impacts during 2015 Financial Services operating revenues increased by $15.8 million or 5.8% in the fourth quarter of 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily driven from increased professional services revenues associated with our wealth management platform business as well as organic and new client growth within our Brokerage Solutions businesses.
In addition the businesses acquired during 2015 contributed $5.5 million of operating revenue during this quarter.
Despite the various gains we have been able to achieve we continue to be negatively impacted by volatile market as certain of our fees are tied to the asset bases of our clients.
Total mutual fund shareowner accounts at December 31 2015 were at $96.7 million a decrease of 700 000 accounts as compared to December 31 2014.
For the year ended December 31 2015 2.9 million registered accounts have converted to subaccounts of which 1.8 million converted to DST's subaccounting platform which aligns with our estimates mentioned in the third quarter of 2015.
As we stated last quarter we no longer intend to provide details of accounting guidance as the impacts of de-conversions continue to diminish.
We do expect however 2016 de-conversions to approximate to 2015 activity.
Moving to our Healthcare Services segment operating revenues for the fourth quarter of 2015 decreased to $3.4 million or 3.3% to $98.4 million primarily due to lower pharmacy claims processing revenues resulting from the previously announced partial client de-conversion and lower software license revenue.
These decreases were partially offset by increased medical claims transaction volumes as well as higher business process outsourcing revenues.
Overall we continue to view the healthcare market as a significant opportunity for DST.
We are encouraged by the two significant client renewals that were completed during 2015 and believe they help evidence that we are on the right strategy with the investments we have made and continue to make in this business and feel this segment is well positioned for long-term success.
In our Customer Communications segment we achieved strong operating results and are pleased with the margin expansion during the quarter.
Operating revenues for the fourth quarter of 2015 increased $4.1 million to $158.8 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
During the quarter our continued conversion of previously announced new clients drove higher operating revenues that were partially offset by organic declines from certain existing customers and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements.
We also completed the sale and leaseback of the company's four North American customer communication production facilities for pretax proceeds totaling approximately $129 million less closing costs and real estate commissions.
Our equity and unconsolidated affiliates decreased primarily from lower IFDS earnings.
The decrease in IFDS earnings is predominately from lower revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities coupled with higher operating costs as IFDS expands its infrastructure and associated service offerings.
In addition our international joint ventures continue to be negatively impacted by foreign currency movements.
Partially offsetting the decreased implementation revenues was organic growth at existing clients and new client processing revenue.
As previously mentioned IFDS UK began processing on our Wealth Management System during the fourth quarter of 2015.
As other ongoing conversion projects continue to be completed we expect that IFDS earnings will be lower due to the amortization of capitalized software costs coupled with the decline in implementation revenues.
IFDS continues to work closely with its clients to further define the additional enhancements and functionality of the wealth management platform.
As these specifications are defined the scope of effort and timeline for completion of the various requirements will continue to evolve.
As always we continue to evaluate our capital plan on an ongoing basis with the goal of proactively managing our resource needs to determine the most effective and productive use of our assets.
As part of this plan we have had a consistent and successful track record of monetizing the company's assets which has generated over $415 million in proceeds over the last year.
While we expect our level of monetization to decline in 2016 we remain committed to investing in organic initiatives and acquisitive growth to drive value and we will continue to be opportunistic with regards to our ongoing share repurchases.
During the full year 2015 the company spent $400 million to repurchase 3.6 million shares of DST common stock and have $150 million remaining under the existing share repurchase plan as of December 31 2015.
Additionally on January 27 2016 the Board of Directors of DST declared a cash dividend of $0.33 per common share on its common stock a 10% increase over prior quarters.
We believe the progress we've made during 2015 across all of our business segments has positioned us well as we head into 2016.
While we expect to be challenged with market volatility and a low growth environment we are confident in the direction of our business and the strategy underway to continue creating long-term value.
With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Gregg for a detailed discussion of our 2015 end of year financial results.
Well thanks Steve.
On a GAAP basis this quarter we reported consolidated net income of $67.8 million or $1.94 per diluted share.
This compares to $255.1 million of net income or $6.65 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2014.
The year-over-year decline is primarily due to lower realized gains on the sale of securities as a result of fewer sales of investments during the fourth quarter of 2015 as well as the gain recognized in the fourth quarter of 2014 for the sale of Global Solutions.
On an adjusted basis our non-GAAP earnings per share were $1.67 a decrease of $0.06 or 3.5% from fourth quarter 2014.
The remainder my comments will focus on our adjusted non-GAAP Results.
Consolidated operating revenues for the quarter were $514.3 million.
Excluding Global Solutions $11.7 million for quarter 2014 operating revenues and $7.9 million of negative foreign currency impacts consolidated operating revenues increased by $17.2 million or 3.4% in fourth quarter 2015 as compared to 2014.
Consolidated operating income though decreased 8.4% or $7.9 million to $85.6 million.
$3.6 million of this decline is the result of the sale of Global Solutions.
Operating income this quarter was also negatively impacted by a decrease in certain higher margin revenue items including a $1.7 million decrease of software license revenues a decrease in mutual fund accounts process and the partial de-conversion of a health customer at the beginning of 2015.
Additionally we had $3.2 million of increased costs due to the amortization of acquired intangibles and expenses associated with performance related contingent consideration resulting from the 2015 acquisitions.
Consolidated operating margins were 16.6% in the quarter as compared to 18.1% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Within the Financial Services segment operating revenues were flat as compared to fourth quarter 2014.
Excluding Global Solutions 2014 results and the negative foreign currency impacts Financial Services operating revenues increased $15.8 million or 5.8% in the fourth quarter of 2015 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
This growth is primarily from increased professional services revenue associated with our wealth management platform and growth within Brokerage Solutions.
Also the businesses we acquired during 2015 contributed $5.5 million of operating revenues during the fourth quarter of 2015.
The operating revenue increases continue to be partially offset by declines in mutual fund registered shareowner account processing due to lower registered accounts and at ALPS will also be negatively impacted by the volatility in the markets as it relates to our asset based revenue arrangements.
Financial Services income from operations decreased $7 million or 12% over the prior year quarter to $51.3 million.
The primary drivers causing the decrease in operating income are the 2014 sale of Global Solutions which contributed income from operations of $3.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 as well as the $3.2 million of incremental expenses related to the amortization of acquired intangibles and the expenses for the performance based contingent consideration resulting from our 2015 acquisitions.
Additionally operating income continued to decline from increase technology security and regulatory compliance costs as well as other costs incurred to enhance our network infrastructures.
Financial Services operating margin was 18.2% in the quarter which is a decrease from the 20.7% operating margin in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our Healthcare Services segment operating revenues were $98.4 million a decrease of $3.4 million or 3.3% from fourth quarter 2014.
The decrease is primarily due to lower pharmacy claims processing revenues resulting from the previously announced partial client de-conversion at the beginning of 2015 and $2.5 million and lower perpetual software license revenues.
The decrease was effectively offset by organic growth at existing clients as well as higher BPO revenues.
During the fourth quarter Healthcare Services income from operations decreased by $7.2 million to $15.8 million.
The decrease continues to be driven primarily by the changes in revenue mix.
In 2015 we had lower pharmacy claims processing and lower software license revenues which tend to have higher operating margins and we had higher medical claim BPO revenues which tend to have lower operating margins.
Operating margins were further pressured in 2015 by increased implementation cost associated with the conversion of new clients will begin processing on our platform in 2016.
The combination of these factors have the effect of reducing operating margin for the quarter to 16.1% as compared to 22.6% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
In our Customer Communications segment operating revenues increased year-over-year by $4.1 million to $158.8 million.
Our North America operating revenues increased $5.5 million or 5.2% to $111.5 million in the fourth quarter from incremental volumes converting on to the platform from the previously announced new clients as well as higher professional services revenues.
The increase was partially offset by an organic decline in volumes and $1.8 million of unfavorable Canadian foreign currency impacts.
Our U.K.
operating revenues decreased $1.4 million or 2.9% to $47.3 million in the fourth quarter primarily from $2 million of unfavorable foreign currency impacts.
This was partially offset by growth from new and existing U.K.
clients.
Overall Customer Communications operating income was $18.4 million an increase of $5.7 million from fourth quarter 2014.
Higher operating revenues coupled with the cost savings achieved from the 2014 closure of certain facilities in North America drove the increase in operating income.
The Customer Communications segment operating margin in fourth quarter 2015 was 11.6% as compared to 8.2% in 2014.
DST's equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased by $3.9 million to $6.3 million in the fourth quarter.
IFDS earnings decreased by $4.5 million to $4.3 million in the fourth quarter.
The decrease was primarily from lower revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities of the two Wealth Management clients higher operating cost as IFDS expands its infrastructure to prepare for the addition of new clients and negative foreign currency impacts in both the U.K.
and Canada.
As Steve mentioned IFDS successfully migrated a portion of the accounts from their shareholding accounting platform to the new Wealth Management platform.
Additionally during the quarter the expected level of effort required to complete the remaining projects increased based upon additional scope requirements and various other factors.
We continue to expect IFDS to experience earnings volatility throughout the implementation and conversion process as these multiyear projects continued to evolve.
Our income tax rate for the fourth quarter remained relatively flat at 33.5% compared to 33.3% for the same quarter last year.
Our full year tax rate was 34.4% which benefited from fourth quarter tax law changes such as permanent extension of the research and development tax credit.
We expect our income tax rate for 2016 to be approximately 36%.
During the quarter we received $50 million pretax cash proceeds from our monetization activities.
$30.4 million came from the sale of marketable securities and $18.6 million came from private equity investment distributions.
The remaining $1 million was from the sale of real estate assets.
We also received $129 million of pretax proceeds from the previously announced sale leaseback transactions of our four North America Customer Communications production facilities.
During 2015 we had $113.9 million of capital expenditures which included approximately $18 million of expenditures for the completion of our new generator plant which went into service in the fourth quarter.
We are currently estimating capital expenditures of 2016 to be approximately $100 million.
Also during the fourth quarter of 2015 we initiated our first seed capital investment with a $25 million investment into a newly launched open ended fund.
Our seed money investments are designed to enable the funds to establish a proven track record and to attract sustainable client investments.
Turning to our share count during the quarter the company spent $75 million to repurchase approximately 650 000 shares of DST common stock.
Average diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 35 million a decrease of 8.9% from the fourth quarter of 2014.
As of December 31 DST had $150 million remaining under our existing share repurchase plan.
We closed the fourth quarter with $89.6 million of cash and $562.1 million of debt.
We continue to maintain a strong balance sheet and believe that our ongoing liquidity gives us the flexibility to be opportunistic in the marketplace.
Ill now turn the call back to Steve for concluding remarks.
Great thanks Gregg.
DST is continuing to take steps to perform and create value over the long-term and we are pleased with our performance to-date.
Were also confident we have the right strategy in place and the right team executing to deliver on our objectives.
At this point I will go ahead and open the call for questions.
Operator? The floor is now open for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from David Togut of Evercore ISI.
Good morning this is Anthony Cyganovich on for David.
So if you could help us think about the growth profile of IFDS in 2016 and kind of what you expect the magnitude of the decline to be in earnings? Yes Anthony we dont give guidance on forward guidance on expectations for earnings or revenue.
Here is what I would tell you is as Gregg and I both mentioned these projects we did put the wealth platform into production in the fourth quarter and we did move a significant number of accounts on to it.
With that we are going to start to see the amortization of the capitalized software investments start to come through the financials and we are going to see lower implementation revenues.
And so we do expect a decline next year and we do expect Anthony that is going to continue.
I know this isnt necessarily helpful but it is going to be lumpy quarter-to-quarter.
So if I had to peg a number I mean I would expect the decline to be in the range of 20% to 30% next year.
Okay great that is helpful.
And secondarily how should we think about the margin profile of the healthcare services business in 2016 and what is the impact of the remaining de-conversion of the Cigna business? So we had talked about a significant client who had announced they were de-converting.
We moved a significant amount about 40% of their total volume half of the platform on January 1 of 2015.
In the last call we announced that that client had decided to remain with us for the remaining for their commercial business and so that one customer that we had talked about the conversion is complete and it took place the beginning of this year the first of this year.
So we had the impact of that all year long.
So the result of that Anthony is that we expect to see some growth out of our healthcare business next year both in the top line and I would expect that we are going to see some recovery of the profit margins there and as we have talked about we kind of have a target on that business of kind of mid teens profit margins.
Great that is helpful and just finally how much do you have left to sell in your investment portfolio? Yes so in the investment portfolio we continue to have 2.2 million shares of our State Street stock and we have other marketable securities of directionally $74 million.
So at the end of the year that was valued at probably right at $220 million.
Great thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Ridley-Lane of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Congrats on the big plan in Financial Services.
Just for modeling purposes should we spread the gains throughout year for the subaccounting was that more of a step function increase in say the third or fourth quarter? Yes so well first of all thank you for your congratulations.
Our teams did a great job in both the mutual fund and the subaccounting conversion.
So the way you should think about that is we will not see revenue until the accounts are converted and that will happen kind of in a big bang fashion over a weekend late in 2016.
So what will happen there David is we are incurring expense now as we begin to gear up for the conversion.
So we have operating teams technology teams conversion teams that are now working on this conversion and that will be true in both the mutual fund side of our business and in the broker side of our business and we'll incur that cost throughout 2016 and then we'll begin to see revenues in late 2016 or early 2017.
So it will have a negative impact on our 2016 earnings but a great win for our team.
We are very excited.
It is a great customer and again this is the kind of the nature of the business.
And again the same thing will happen on the mutual fund side of the business.
That conversion is not expected to happen until late in 2017.
Got it and then could you talk a little bit about the KRFS acquisition and how it helps you position among hedge funds? And I have the $26 million in revenue and breakeven to EPS in year one what's the - wondering what the normalized operating margin is you expect over time? Yes so we dont really talk about operating margins but let me come back and talk about the business.
So KRFS is a very good acquisition for us.
It is a nicely sized business.
It fits very well with the existing hedge fund administration business that we have at ALPS and it positions us in a few key markets.
The Southeastern United States they have a nice footprint in Texas and a nice footprint in California.
And so we think it opens us up to a number of markets where we think we have got  and we are pretty uniquely positioned from a service perspective to be able to really provide to the middle market hedge fund providers a customized solution.
So we are very excited about it.
We think there is good synergies with the business that we already have and look the acquisitions in total for us during 2014 should give us a nice revenue bump in 2015.
So a way to think about that is if you - all four of the acquisitions that we did you should expect somewhere between a 2% and 2.5% kind of revenue jump in 2016 from those acquisitions.
So KRFS was a great acquisition and we are very excited about it as well as the other acquisitions that we did during the year.
So David I would like to just add to that that once all these acquisitions get on to the books and they get into full swing directionally the annual intangible amortization will be coming to the books.
We havent finalized the purchase accounting of course on KRFS but you should be thinking that it is going to be directionally somewhere around $8 million to $9 million a year which will be about $0.16 of drag on EPS from the amortization.
Got it okay and then is the $50 million in monetization of non-core assets that you said you had here in the fourth quarter good run rate to assume going forward? Well so I would say no and but let me give you a little more color right as Gregg has been talking about the monetization has started to decline partly because we I dont want to say that we are running out of assets but some of the assets that we have are not as liquid as others.
And so I would expect that our run rate going forward will be certainly lower than it has been in the past and I dont think you should take the fourth quarter and just annualize it.
Got it.
And then last one from me I think based on current FX rates maybe a 1% to 2% drag to revenue sort of a 2% to 3% drag to operating income in 2016 is that sort of in the ballpark? Well it is gets  it depends a little bit on your definition of current because every time you go out and hit the Bloomberg that's where you say they change.
But I think you are directionally thinking about that correct.
I mean the effect on consolidated revenues our exposures are in Canada the UK and Australia and then well first we have the exposure that comes through our equity earning line for IFDS as well.
So I think you are directionally thinking about that correct.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Dave Koning of Baird.
Yes hey guys and first of all you are so modest about the wins in some ways it is incredible what you've done in the subaccounting markets.
Four years ago you had about 10 million accounts you are going to exit this year with about 40.
So the growth for your market share is pretty incredible so congrats on that.
And then my main question Financial Services margin I know this year it was under some pressure and I'm imagining that continues but how do you kind of see it progressing from the 2015 level? You'll probably lose some registered accounts at least this year you still have some of that higher compliance spend and then you made an acquisition I guess just what are the puts and takes and should this shake out this year? So first of all thank you for your comments and I would just  I would reiterate I think the teams have done a really nice job in our brokerage business and look we're excited about it.
This win that we announced is a significant win.
It is accounts that are coming off of a competitor platform and so we're excited about it.
The Financial Services we saw a decline in margins from quarterly as well as annually from 2015 over 2014.
As we think about the Financial Services margins into 2016 I think you should think about kind of flattish margins.
Right? And that will require us to continue to focus on cost containment.
It will require us to continue to be smart because we are going to continue to invest in the business and as I mentioned we're going to have additional costs as we gear up for these conversions.
But I think that's how we're thinking about it.
Yes now that makes a lot of sense.
Then I guess secondly the ALPS business it seems like you know we look at the fund and it has been down 30% plus I think year-over-year for a while but it seems like you are still gathering assets and it is not  your revenue stream is not down nearly that much which is encouraging.
We'll start to hit easier comps kind of probably in Q2.
I know this quarter may be still Q1 will be down somewhat but can that grow you think if oil prices are stable can that grow or will that be down in 2016? So David let's split a little bit if we can the metrics that we gave on ALPS so we give two different numbers.
We give an AUA number and an AUM number right? So the AUA number is would be assets under administration and thats effectively where were providing services it might be accounting services or compliant services or fund accounting kinds of services.
That number is down as you say about 30% so a bit of an anomaly there.
We had a customer who had a significant amount of assets who effectively bought one product from us.
They moved earlier Gregg was it third quarter? Oh it's actually January first quarter of 2015.
So they moved in the first quarter.
We saw the AUA number go down but you didnt see the resulting impact on revenue because again they were buying a single product from us and it was a relatively low revenue value customer.
Okay? So thats kind of what you're seeing there.
The AUM number is actually the assets under management number and that number is down and again the teams there have done a great job selling.
Right? So weve talked on the last call about we not only track assets under management but we also track units in the funds and actually the units in the funds continued to grow as our teams are out doing a nice job on the distribution side.
Gregg talked a little bit about the investment that we've made in the seed capital program which again should help with the distribution.
And so as Gregg and the gentleman that runs that business and Ed Burke like to say they feel like we're spring loaded from a actual sale of units perspective that when the markets turn around we should get some good leverage there but it's challenged right now not only the energy markets but the commodity markets where we tend to have more exposure.
Okay so all in you know with the good selling efforts good products et cetera largely offset the decline and it could still decline hard to know given where oil kind of moves around day to day but at least better than how much oil is down for sure.
Yes so David if you look at ALPS assets under management the piece that Steve talked about that gives  has a higher impact on the asset based revenues.
We were at $14.1 billion of assets under management at the end of the third quarter and we are at $14.7 billion of assets under management at the end of the year.
So we had a $600 million increase in those assets under management during the quarter.
And we would tell you directionally that was from $900 million of net new flows an offset by $300 million of net depreciation in the underlying portfolios.
Well that's solid.
And then just lastly the healthcare market I know last year obviously the partial de-conversion the three years before that it averaged like 11% 12% growth.
Anything different about those three years and what we're seeing going forward? Is it a more penetrated market that's harder to get back to double-digit growth and once you anniversary that is it just kind of like those prior three years? So I would say a couple of things we do expect to get back on a  from a top line on a growth trajectory next year because we won't have the drag of that de-conversion.
I dont know that we reached the levels of three years ago and I think that has more to do with the market than with our solution or our customers.
If you just kind of look at what's going on particularly in the pharmaceutical market and in the PBM market there is a lot of disruption taking place right now and so I think we will get back to growth.
I think it will be high single low double-digit kind of numbers.
But I dont expect we just rebound right back to where we were three years ago and I think a fair amount of that has to do with just the state of the market.
Great thanks and great job in a tough market.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from Peter Heckmann of Avondale.
Good morning gentlemen just a follow up on that last comment Steve within healthcare you saw the losses of volumes from that one client but for the year pharmacy claims were still up and trying to drill in again to those numbers but does that - how does that affect mix should we see the mix within healthcare start to revert seeing a little bit more mix towards pharmacy claims given the growth rate or how do we think about that versus BPO because you also saw some pretty good growth in covered lives? Yes so well first of all I think what the pharmacy claims numbers show you is that we have a real high quality client base.
Right? So in a year where we did have the de-conversion we showed good growth and that is really all above our customers going out and doing a great job with their customers.
So I would tell you Pete underlying that pharmacy business is a really solid and high quality group of customers.
And as you mentioned we had some nice growth in our BPO business and in fact have some more BPO revenue that will be coming on in 2016.
So a little bit of the drag that we saw in the fourth quarter of 2015 was us gearing up and working on the conversions of this BPO revenue.
So as Gregg mentioned one of the interesting things here is the BPO revenue tends to have a lower operating margin than the pharmacy claims revenues.
And so we've got a little bit of a mix challenge going on but I would say in general the team did a - our healthcare team across the board did a really good job in 2015 in absorbing what was a significant hit right out of the gate and quite honestly were pleased with where the year ended up there.
Okay great and then a follow up just on IFDS could you remind us really what the primary offering there is? I mean I've read a little bit about it it sounds like its really going to be very competitive compared to what the UK market currently has to offer and so could you refresh us as what you are doing there how many clients do you have signed up as well as how many clients do you currently have live? Sure so historically Pete what we've done in the UK market with IFDS our joint venture with State Street has been collectives record-keeping.
So you should think about that as very analogous to our U.S.
mutual fund record keeping transfer agency kind of work.
Okay? The new application that we've been talking about now for going on two two and a half years is really a more holistic wealth management platform.
And so the basis of the technology for that platform is a technology that DST owns in Australia a platform that we call Bluedoor.
And what we've been doing for the last two two and a half years is anglicizing that platform and introducing it into the UK marketplace.
And so we talked in prior calls about having a couple of clients significant client that we're working with on that and on interestingly I don't have the number right in front of me but you saw a decline in IFDS accounts I think $3.1 million decline in IFDS accounts.
And what happened there was we talked about converting a significant portion of our clients' business onto the new wealth platform what happened is those accounts moved from our historical collectives platform onto this new wealth management platform.
But in addition there are other products that we will be bringing onto that platform.
So I dont know if that's clear but that's the solution that we're delivering and that's the underlying technology and so we see revenue and profit at both the IFDS level as well as at the DST level because of the underlying technology.
Okay okay but is it fair to say that IFDS is an early mover in this market and from what I'm reading that seems to be the case that there may be other opportunities to grow this business with this holistic wealth offering not unlike what's happened in the U.S with some of the providers in this half and the cloud based accounting space? So yes so it is interesting Pete right.
There are competitors in the market.
There is a company GBST FNZ Bravura are three names that you would hear in the European market.
What's interesting about all those competitors is the genesis of all of them are either superannuation platforms that came out in New Zealand or Australia and again that's part of the reason that we're using our Australian platform to address the market.
So I would say it's really days in the market.
There are other competitors that are established and have gained market share but we do think it is a developing market and we do hope that on a forward basis we'll be able to attract new customers there and new opportunities.
All right thanks.
Sure thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session of today's program.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Steve Hooley for closing remarks.
Great well thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes your conference.
You may now disconnect.