Good afternoon my name is Ali and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the DaVita Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Jim Gustafson.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Ali.
And welcome everyone to our second quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations.
And with me today are Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer; Luis Borgen our Chief Financial Officer; and LeAnne Zumwalt.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Okay.
Thank you Jim.
Second quarter was a strong one as most of you of have no doubt noted both in terms of our results and our momentum going forward both clinically and financially.
I'll try to quickly cover 4 topics before turning it over to Luis: Clinical outcomes government reimbursement government inquiries and our outlook.
First clinical outcomes which we always present first because that is what comes first.
We are first and foremost a caregiver company now serving approximately 131 000 patients.
With respect to adequacy which is essentially how well we are doing at removing toxins from our patient's blood this quarter 97% of our hemodialysis patients had a Kt/V greater than 1.2.
Second with respect to vascular access 69% of our patients have fistulas which is the preferred form of vascular access.
For these and virtually all other clinical measures our patient outcomes compare very favorably to national averages.
This quality of clinical care not only results in healthier patients but it also drives reductions in hospitalizations and surgical procedures and therefore brings significant savings to the United States healthcare system.
Second topic government reimbursement.
Luis is going to report on a bunch of the details there but I'll just make 4 contextual comments.
A no doubt downward pressure will be greater going forward than it has been looking backwards.
B nonetheless dialysis centers are unusually discrete within the context of the Medicare program with 87% of our patients being either Medicare or Medicaid and almost all centers being freestanding which means that if government reimbursement becomes inadequate centers close.
There are virtually no parts of American healthcare where cause and effect is as clear.
Point C with all the pressure on government deficits there's always the chance that over the next few years MSP will be extended.
And fourth Point D is that we have significant hopes that the pressure on government spending and the government deficit will finally get us over the finish line in terms of the government implementing a bigger bundle than currently where we already have the proven ability to drive quality improvements and total cost savings for our patient population if they only put in place the architecture for us to do it on a scale basis.
Again Luis will cover some of the government reimbursement details but those are some of the broader perspectives.
The third subject government inquiries.
We did learn from the U.S.
attorney's office from the District of Colorado that it has opened up a grand jury investigation.
I'll make 3 specific comments and then 3 generic ones that you've heard before many times if you've been with us over the years.
But the first specific comment is it is clear that this is very preliminary at this stage.
Second however we always take these things seriously and we look forward to cooperating with the government.
And we mean that literally when we say that because we are eager to educate them as to exactly what we have done or not done.
And then point 3 it appears there's a lot of overlap with subjects covered particularly physician relationships by the old St.
Louis investigation which was started in 2005.
They looked into those subjects spent time with us and it's been quiet for over 2 years.
But separate from the specific comments I'll make 3 generic points and again I ask the forbearance from those of you that have been with us for a long time.
We do thousands of transactions including hundreds with physicians and we work very hard to get every one right technically and in terms of spirit.
We are comfortable and confident with our business practices and these practices regularly go through extensive internal and external review.
And finally none of those words would mean much of anything except our track record of compliance over the last 11.5 years is exceptionally well established and documented.
And we did not design the system whereby instead of having discussions the review process starts with publicly announced investigations but we've dealt very successfully with that system for 11 highly public and transparent years.
Fourth and finally on our outlook.
As our press release indicated we are raising our 2011 operating income guidance to be between $1.08 billion and $1.12 billion.
Importantly this guidance does exclude the noncash goodwill impairment that we took this quarter.
We are also increasing our 2012 OI guidance range.
That new guidance for 2012 is $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion.
We recognize that this is an unusually positive adjustment to guidance and as always there is risk we could be wrong.
But also as always our guidance contains the overwhelming majority of probabilistic risk-adjusted outcomes.
In addition to the fact that there's some one-time bundling and other adjustments that are going positively for us our base business the operations and strategic initiatives are in fact going well both in terms of near-term results and momentum.
I'll now turn it over to Luis.
Thanks Kent.
I'd like to start with a few words about government reimbursement.
CMS released the preliminary 2012 reimbursement rule which includes our first market basket increase which was proposed at 1.8%.
Also the transition adjustment our bundle phase in tax as we have referred to it remains at 0 in 2011 and for the remainder of the 3-year transition period.
Under the terms of the recently signed government debt deal there is a scenario where Medicare rates to providers could be cut up to 2% a year beginning in 2013.
This of course depends on whether the super committee can develop an alternative proposal which itself could also contain Medicare cuts.
In other government reimbursement 9 states have already reduced Medicaid rates this year and California has passed a budget reducing rates 10% across-the-board to all providers.
This California cut will likely be approved by CMS retro to June 1.
We expect these Medicaid pressures to continue into 2012 as many states are looking at rate reductions and some are even looking to reduce or eliminate secondary coverage for dual-eligible patients.
Also in the government front the Veterans Administration is still seeking to recontract at lower rates.
We continue to talk to the Veterans Administration in an attempt to come to agreement on mutually acceptable rates which will likely be below our current VA rates.
Now some discussion of our operations.
We saw very solid trends in the quarter reflecting strong treatment growth improving revenue per treatment and commercial mix and solid cost controls.
All this resulted in continued strong operating income and cash flows.
Here are some specifics on the quarter.
Non-acquired growth was 4.6% normalized for days of the week an improvement for 4.2% normalized in Q1.
Dialysis revenue per treatment was up about $6.
The primary driver was the Medicare transition adjuster fix.
Also we saw an improvement in commercial rates that were partially offset by declines in lab revenue following seamlessly higher lab revenue in Q1.
It is notable that commercial treatment mix improved very slightly in the quarter.
While this is good news it is too soon to tell if this is the beginning of a trend.
Commercial mix continues to be a swing factor especially in light of the challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Dialysis patient care costs per treatment was flat with the prior quarter as increased compensation benefit costs were offset by seasonal declines in the payroll tax expense line.
We took an after-tax noncash goodwill impairment charge of $14.4 million in the quarter.
This is related to writing down the value of HomeChoice Partners our Home Infusion business.
We wrote down the goodwill because the performance of the business has declined over the past year leading us to believe that at this point the fair value of the business was less than our book value thus accounting rules mandate that we write down the value of the business.
Despite this write off we have seen some positive trends in the business.
The business continues to be profitable and all of its growth has been funded with its own cash flows thus DaVita has not made any additional capital investments beyond the initial purchase price.
We still believe home infusion is an attractive market and HomeChoice is a well-positioned asset.
Operating cash flow year-to-date was solid at $534 million.
We continue to expect strong operating cash flows for 2011 and are raising our guidance range to $900 million to $980 million.
In the quarter we deployed $39 million on development CapEx $70 million on acquisitions and additionally we repurchased 3.5 million shares of stock worth $302 million $25 million of which settled subsequent to quarter end.
Finally an update on DSI and international.
On the international front we are pleased to announce that we are now dialysing patients outside of the U.S.
We are managing one center in Singapore and we have a minority stake in a company with 2 centers in India.
As to the DSI acquisition at this time we still expect to close in the third quarter.
We're in the final stages working with the SEC on divestitures and they have determined that we will have to divest approximately 30 centers.
We still expect approximately 0 net OI contributions from DSI in 2011 after transaction and integration costs.
Operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Justin Lake with UBS.
The first question I had was on the guidance change.
If you could give us some color there in terms of any specifics on what the improving outlook is for 2012 -- 2011? And then for 2012 maybe you can break it down between the expected DSI contribution and the improving internal operations? Yes I'll give you a general the reason we raised guidance for '11 and '12 are the following: Obviously we have 3 more months under our belt this year and we've experienced solid operating performance.
We've had our improvement in NAG of stabilization in our commercial mix.
The second factor Justin is that we have more clarity in our 2012 reimbursement rate levels.
Part A of that would be obviously the elimination of the transition adjuster fix.
And number two we have a market basket increase of 1.8%.
Those are 2 additional clarifying factors.
And third is the change of the EPO label we believe will lead to lower pharma utilization levels as physicians respond to the new label.
Those are the 3 main factors that led us to increased guidance for this year and next.
If I could just grab on to that last piece the impact of the new EPO label.
I think Amgen has put out numbers that indicate they expect this new label and the QIP associated with it to drive about a 10% decline versus their previous estimates in EPO dose.
Just curious your opinion on what that change might be.
Justin clearly it will depend on physician prescribing patterns and how they react to the label.
But we don't think that estimate of 10% is out of line.
And then just a couple of other quick ones.
Commercial mix you noted improved slightly in the quarter.
Any other detail you can give us there and what was the assumption here for the back half of the year '12.
Did you move the assumption to now being flat to improving? Or do you still expect that to just continue trending downward and this is just white noise in between? Our outcome -- our operating guidance assumes reasonable range of potential mix scenarios heading into the balance of this year and into the next.
It was slightly positive in the quarter and that's how we can say.
It's too early  to determine that to be a trend.
And last question on other ops.
Can you walk us through that.
The losses seem to be increasing.
I assume that's a lot of international investment.
So can you walk us through the increasing losses there and if you could spike out how much was spent on international on the second quarter that would be great.
Our second quarter G&amp;A was up.
It was due to various factors.
One factor was international which had increased spend for our plan through Q2.
Another factor was the 123R expense.
And the third factor was some increased spend on the legal and compliance area.
Those are the factors year-over-year.
Yes and Justin I think your question was more specifically to the other operating break out that we have in the supplemental data.
That $25 million there was primarily the impairment charge looking in that line item.
Sure.
But even X that it seems like it's gone up the last couple quarters.
I'm just curious is this a good international run rate for the year now? I would say no.
We had guided earlier to about a $150 million operating income investment.
Our best estimate now is it's closer to $20 million for the year and that is incorporated in the guidance for 2011 Justin.
Just one more clarification.
The international operation for dialysis are in the Dialysis segment they are not in the other operating lines.
Got it.
So international is not included in that other operating? Correct.
Your next question comes from Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Just a couple of questions.
Luis just to clarify the guidance in 2012 does include DSI Renal now? Yes it does.
It does.
And how much contribution did you bake in for 2012? We're not breaking that out but it does include a full-year of DSI.
And then thinking about -- just going back to the Amgen discussion have you guys finished renegotiating your contract for EPO yet? No we're in discussion with Amgen.
And have you given any color in the past about how long you would like to extend that contract? We have not.
And then looking at the non-acquired treatment growth it picked up a little bit higher than what we've seen historically the 4.6.
Is that just normal fluctuation or is there anything driving that do you think? We think we did a good job executing and we hope it continues.
And then Kent since I got you what's your belief on the MSP extension? I know there is a lot of moving parts going on in Washington now.
But what's the likelihood or what probability would you put on that and I guess over what time frame? I think it's pretty impossible to handicap because employers are opposed for all the obvious reasons.
They benefited from this unique subsidy for a long time.
On the other hand in the last 20 years it's been extended a few times.
So I think predicting in the current political and economic environment a little bit of a fool's errand it's not predictable.
So it might happen it might not happen.
It might happen to some degree.
Anybody's guess.
Understood.
And then just thinking about EPO utilization trends Justin touched on this a little bit.
But can you talk about how much lower you really believe it can go maybe not getting too specific but Amgen said 20% to 25%.
Is that kind of ballpark where you think it will fall on? No.
We are making no prediction.
The Amgen knows a lot more than we do.
Perhaps for us we wait and see what kind of prescription decisions our doctors make in light of the new label and any other emerging conversations and evidence.
So for us we're just executing on physician orders.
Your next question comes from Matt Weight with Feltl and Company.
Inc.</strong> Curious on your comments Amgen has made the comments they were not in favor of CMS's proposal to retire the matrix and QIP of penalizing less than 10 grams per deciliter.
How do you -- just interested in your comments in that regard? What CMS means the clarification that they believed it was no longer consistent with the new label so that's their rationale and we would tend to agree with that.
I think the reality is that there will be a hemoglobin level and range that emerges over the next year or so as physicians adopt this label change.
And we'll wait to see what that is.
Inc.</strong> And then in terms of the proposed 2014 QIP is there anything in particular the new proposed 7 matrix that give you cause of concern? None of the major specifically.
But clearly our concern all along has been CMS adopt standard definition and account for lab variations and things like which they've yet to do.
So we'll have to continue to work with them to improve the methodology.
Inc.</strong> Last question here.
Any update from last quarter? You referenced difficulty in capturing all the keys in mix adjusters and quantify it as a $2 per treatment lost opportunity.
Anything that you can even share with that? Unfortunately it continues to be a challenge and we are continuing the dialogue with CMS to understand how they can help us obtain that data.
Inc.</strong> And then last one here.
In terms of your patient can you remind me what percent of your patients are treated at home? Yes about 10% between peritoneal dialysis and home hemodialysis.
Your next question comes from Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Did the prior guidance include DSI or is it in there for the first time in both periods? The prior guidance did include DSI for both periods.
LLC</strong> Was there any significant change from what was in there previously that you can share with us? No it would be -- no changes that would be material.
LLC</strong> So it was about the same amount.
And then can you talk about any pressure that you saw on commercial overall commercial reimbursement from any of the contracts that weren't bundled in the quarter due to former utilization or is that not an issue for you guys? If you had a prior period relationship that was not bundled and so it was still fee-for-service pharma separate from treatment and if your pharma utilization went down you would have revenue compression.
But am I answering your question or not? LLC</strong> Let me ask it in another way so in the aggregate did that dynamic negatively affect you at all in the quarter? Since we have some fee-for-service private revenue the answer is yes.
LLC</strong> Was the amount material? I don't know.
I guess again we can get in debate as to what material is or not.
It's incorporated in our results.
And of course we have other private revenue which is bundled and some reductions in utilization benefit our economics and so it's 2 different numbers and I think we'll just leave it that they're incorporated into our results.
And we're very glad that we bundled a lot of the business that we bundled over the last 18 months.
LLC</strong> And then just on Medicare revenue per treatment did it effectively go up for the change to the transition adjustment or were there any other notable changes to Medicare revenue per treatment? Just the transition adjustment.
LLC</strong> And then finally Kent just your initial comments about seeing increased government pressure going forward.
Can you elaborate on that at all? It would seem like the proposed rule was generally favorable and while I guess everyone is nervous about what Medicare reimbursement might be like going forward.
Is there anything specific that led you to those comments? No nothing specific just the same reality that we're all reading about in the newspapers.
Your next question comes from Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Question Kent on your commentary in discussing the guidance.
You mentioned that there were some one-time items or positives related to bundling and other adjustments in your outlook.
Can you elaborate on that? By that I mean I just things like one-time changes in pharma utilization things like that as opposed to acquiring businesses or opening up de novos which recur every single year and lead to incremental growth.
Some of these other changes are recurring but they only happen once.
And the cash flow guidance for 2011 was raised a little bit more and operating income.
Anything in here that makes 2011 not a good base if you think about 2012.
Normally I just take last year's number and add free cash flow -- I mean add net income to this year's cash flow to get the next year outlook.
Any reason why that's not a good analysis to do? No it's a good base line.
As we go into the year we may give you some more detail on that but it's a reasonable starting point for 2012.
And the company was very aggressive in share repo in the quarter which is a good thing I think.
But you still have a lot of cash in the balance sheet even after DSI just because of the free cash flow.
I mean do you look out at the share repurchase in Q2 as a way to think about how you might deploy capital going forward or is there something during Q2 that make you feel like it was a better time to be in the market? It's a very fair question and we'll give the same answer we have given for about 11 years now that every quarter brings its own unique analysis to what we should do with our cash and with our net debt position.
And all the generic factors go into it.
What business opportunities we have what business opportunities we anticipate what we think is going to be happening with the capital markets what we think is going to be happening with the government.
So every single quarter is unique and we think that's the way we can serve you best.
And then I guess staying on the capital deployment side here any thoughts on the percentages -- field activity any opportunity to pick up some asset I assume they'd have to divest? Certainly they will have to divest some and we would hope that we would get a shot don't know if we will or not.
And I guess just words of the deal would you guys spend $70 million on deals? Is that a good way to think about it? Has the environment caused the one-offs to reconsider selling? Could you say the question again please sir? I guess as far as the acquisition outlook are you seeing any change in the one-off providers looking to sell in the face of all the regulations going on right now? I think the data suggests that there is an increase in the number of people interested in selling.
But I'd have to go back and take another look and maybe somebody in the call will confirm it.
We can come back and say that it's right.
But if you look at now the last 12 months compared to the prior 12 months and then in particular if you compare it the last 24 months to the prior period that the number of deals is up.
And I've got a number of people nodding their heads up and down.
So I think the answer is yes and a lot of that is because of the -- all of the regulatory uncertainty and pressures.
And then last question here.
Congratulations on the international expansion.
I just want to get a little more color there.
I mean one site and one market and a couple of sites and another market seems like a small footprint.
Obviously it's the beginning but is there some way to think about that as if you put a flag in a market there's a backlog of X sitting there behind them.
How quickly should we think about these markets starting to grow? Yes again very fair question.
I'm afraid our answer is going to be pretty worthless because we're so new at this.
That while it is true we would not have started in either of those geographic areas unless we thought there was a lot more opportunity.
We're not nearly competent enough at it yet to start predicting exactly what's going to happen when.
So we continue to feel very good about the growth prospects but we always have to immediately follow that by saying this is a long-term strategy and that's not going to start probably adding to shareholder value for quite sometime and so the time will tell.
Your next question comes from Ben Andrew with William Blair.
Maybe just if you could talk a little bit about the organic growth in the quarter for patients.
It was a little bit above kind of our target for the population generally.
Was there anything in particular there that you saw that give you reasons for optimism they can stay at those sort of levels or might we expect it to drop back down? When you say organic I assume you mean non-acquired growth? Yes sir.
And we do think we earned the number.
We don't think it was a fluke and we've been working on nudging it up.
And so it's an earned number.
Having said that we're not sitting around saying that it's in the bag that it's going to stay where it is.
So we're continuing to pedal away with a lot of intensity and so I'm afraid we can't offer up any distinctively bullish point of view going forward.
Although certainly our point of view is embedded in the guidance we gave for '11 and '12.
Okay.
And then in terms of the cost side I mean we've had some checks in the field in terms of -- there's a view that there might be an opportunity for some facility consolidation in particular markets.
Is that a path that you move down regularly or that you see as an opportunity? We are always open to consolidating facilities when it makes sense.
It doesn't happen very often only a few times a year.
In a lot of those instances it's only because one center is quite old and would require a whole bunch of renovation.
And so I don't see anything that's going to lead to any material increase in that happening over the next year or 2.
Okay.
And then finally on the reimbursement side.
You discussed the pressures as kind of growing a little bit on the privates in Medicaid and the VA.
Is there a time frame that you think about perhaps some of these issues can be clarified and you'll have visibility? Or is this more of a just terribly durable process there's no getting away from and you're just trying to manage it as you go along? It's a fair wording of the question.
It's much more of the second category for the first.
It's impossible to predict in some of these cases not only what the resolution is likely to be but when it's likely to be resolved and we just persevere.
And again on the private side is there a geographic kind of localization? Is it national? Because we've heard a fair bit of variability from market checks in terms of where it is growing.
And are you seeing that spread? Could you go ahead and ask that one again so I don't ramble in responding? Sure.
We've done specific checks where certain geographies say California paid private rates very close to Medicare and other geographies like the Northwest pay multiples of them in terms of the privates.
So are you seeing the pressures on the private side expanding geographically to regions that are historically have been strong? Or is this a national issue that's growing in importance? Well first of all we talked about downward pressure when we're talking about Medicare.
I don't know that we implied at all about any particular difference in what's going on in the private side.
And on the private side I would say that the pressure we feel there is the same that we've always felt no more or no less.
Some years we do better in fighting it than others but there hasn't been any demonstrable change in that sphere in this quarter versus other recent quarters.
And then I guess building on that with respect to geography while there are differences in average revenue per treatment across different geographies even though within every geography there's quite a spread of rates nonetheless the average rate per geographic area can be quite different.
We have not picked up on any sort of systemic new trend in any particular geographic area.
Your next question comes from Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
A couple of things.
I wanted to just ask about cost per treatment first.
I think Luis you mentioned in your script increased benefit costs relative to maybe last quarter.
I know the payroll tax starts to wane.
But can you just maybe give us a little bit more there? Was that -- anything unusual relative to medical costs in the period? Or is this a benefit cost that's going to carry with you in the next several quarters as well? There was nothing unusual on that.
We do have fluctuations quarter-to-quarter in how the claims come in and therefore how much expense we have to book.
But the patient cost per treatment was relatively flat as we had guided previously.
Okay.
And then if I could just ask about Lifeline and DaVita Rx I mean one question I had just on Lifeline is we obviously had a big transaction announced yesterday in the access market.
What's the business model that you guys have there at this point? Is this still a management model or are you tweaking that? I just wanted to get a brief update on that.
And then anything you could say about DaVita Rx by way of an update in terms of its performance would be great.
With respect to Lifeline we're still primarily a management model.
And with respect to DaVita Rx it continues to grow.
It continues to have some profitability and it continues to add a lot of clinical and service value for patients and savings for the taxpayer.
What is the run rate at this point in DaVita Rx? I don't think we've disclosed that.
So if I do it spontaneously I'll probably get lectured after the call.
So let us reflect and see if we need to start parsing that out for you.
Okay.
And then as it relates to international I think Kevin really got most of it.
But in India with this minority stake in a company can you just maybe give us a little bit more insight into who or what that local partner is? Do they have experience in the marketplace? Or is this a completely new entry for both of you into the country? Okay.
Maybe I'll preface the answer by just saying that there isn't anything that's economically material that is likely to happen in India for our shareholders for a long time.
However if you look 7 8 9 10 years out we think there is significant prospects for that but it's a long time for all the reasons that you could list as well as us.
Having said all of that the answer to your specific question is it's a small startup company and the primary owners of the company are experienced business people and they're running a couple of very high-quality centers particularly in the context of the overall Indian reality.
And some are looking forward to hopefully some very nice growth there but it's obviously coming off an incredibly tiny base and the revenue per treatment is quite a bit smaller than America.
Sure.
I get that.
Last thing just LeAnne the anemia management metrics we usually get those in the releases or these calls.
I'm just wondering if you can help us with that? Yes with the changes in the label I think we're definitely going to see some movement in hemoglobin et cetera.
The stat that we've historically provided is our percent of patients between 10 and 12 and that's remained really pretty constant this year at about 79% of the patients.
Your next question comes from Gary Taylor with Citigroup.
A couple of questions.
I noticed that bad debt ticked up a little bit sequentially and year-over-year.
Would you just attribute that to general economic conditions? I'm just a little curious why we didn't -- we haven't seen that maybe a year or so ago but curious to your thoughts.
I missed them sorry Gary.
What ticked up a little bit year-over-year? I think bad debt as a percent of revenue ticked up maybe 30 bps sequentially and 20 bps year-over-year.
Not a big movement but it's been a pretty stable number for a couple of years.
Yes we did increase that by 25 basis points in the current quarter and that's our new run rate going forward as we look at the portfolio and how those receivables were coming in.
We thought it was appropriate to reserve at that higher level which is about 25 basis points higher than the prior quarter.
And I mean I know it's a small change I don't want to belabor it but it sounds like your commercial mix was a touch better.
So I guess presumably in some of that commercial mix there's still movement towards higher cost sharing.
Would that be a component of this change or am I overthinking it? Gary could you run that one by us again? We're all a little -- we all have quizzical expressions on our faces on this end.
Yes I guess I'm just thinking what would be the factors driving slightly higher bad debt.
At this point you've had some pretty adverse payer mix shift for a couple of years and now it sounds like you were saying your commercial mix was a little better this quarter.
Some I'm just wondering if even though commercial mix is getting better within that mix is there higher cost sharing by the patient that is probably driving a higher co-pay or am I just over thinking 25 basis points here? Yes it's a long revenue cycle.
We're looking at a big portfolio.
We're very thorough processing exactly what the right level is and we determined this quarter that the 25% to the 25 basis point increase is the appropriate level to reserve that.
But it is a very multiyear revenue cycle.
In other words Gary I don't think we have any single hypothesis about a particular change in the environment or our mix or our operating performance.
It's -- and maybe one will emerge.
Right now all we have is that slight change in our aggregate outcomes reflecting and therefore leading to an accounting change.
Maybe we'll be able to say more in another 3 months.
But in the meantime it was just clearly something we should do given the aggregate result.
Got it.
My last question is just around this Colorado investigation.
Can you help us maybe understand? I know in some states grand juries are required some states they're not.
It doesn't sound like there was just a subpoena from the U.S.
Attorney here initially but kind of straight to grand jury may be that will be the tool to compel some document production.
But is there anything in your mind that differentiates why this is a grand jury investigation as opposed to just a subpoena from the U.S.
Attorney's office? Unfortunately we've told you just about everything we know.
It's very preliminary and we're eager to get some time with these folks and find out more about what they're thinking and let them find out a lot more about practices and our compliance standards.
But right now we pretty much know nothing.
Okay.
Do you happen to know if a grand jury is required in Colorado or is that -- or not necessarily? I do not know.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Is there any interest at all from commercial pay at more of a global type of sub capitation? And if not today do you think any time in our future that will start trending in that direction that you manage the whole patient and take all risk? John this is Kent.
In our dreams yes; in our plans no.
It may happen -- because of the 30 months rule and therefore private payer's ability to have these patients shift to Medicare their incentive to invest in the kind of things that could significantly save money and improve quality are  really limited.
And so yes we continue to talk with some people about it.
But the fact that the patient base is so small so fragmented and so short term means that they typically end up wanting to allocate their management resources to other tricky deals not ours.
I want to go back to the first thing I said.
We have hopes and we're getting better and better at proving how much value we could add on both the private side and the Medicare side every single year.
But unfortunately I don't think there's anything material and imminent for you guys.
Inc.</strong> Right.
And my second question would be if you were some sharp young analyst at CMS and you were looking at the bundle what would you think you would say prescription uses -- with the new label and with the industry behavior changes how do you think prescription uses change relative to the assumptions that went into the bundle when they were designing it 12 18 months ago? All right.
Now say that question again.
Are you asking us how we think the actual results have matched up to what they predicted 1.5 years ago? Inc.</strong> Yes in terms of -- I mean it seems to us like pharma uses a good 10% or so 10% to 15% or below maybe what was predicted particularly with the label change and not just DaVita but industrywide.
And so the concern would be that they take another bite at the apple and redesign it based on reality today versus what was predicted.
But I don't want to tilt at windmills if that's an unreasonable concern.
Yes I think the only honest answer to that one is we don't know how they're thinking about that.
And we do know that no one knew what was going to happen and that there was an incredible confluence of a policy change meaning a move to bundling and a whole bunch of new scientific evidence and new clinical debates and in many cases conclusions.
And so there was this totally -- not totally but largely coincidental confluence of major changes.
And trying to separate out what happened for one reason and what happened for another reason is pretty impossible.
And I'd also go back to saying no one knows exactly what they predicted.
And I doubt that they could have had any basis for really making a prediction.
So I think it's just unknowable.
The fact is as long as Medicare revenue is less than Medicare expense they've got to be very careful about cutting Medicare reimbursement because centers will close.
And so independent of what's going on with any one variable they've got to end up looking at the aggregate.
And it remains the case that if it was only Medicare reimbursement out there you have hundreds and hundreds well literally thousands of dialysis centers closing.
But a very fair question.
We just don't know the answer.
Inc.</strong> And I guess my -- I don't expect you to answer this question but maybe conceptually how you're thinking.
If I'm DaVita why would I have any managed care contracts assuming you get through the cycle and things are always moving? But if I look a year out 2 years out why would you have any managed care contracts that weren't bundled? So that the incentives are all kind of in the same place between private and public payers? Because there's some payers who don't want to bundle or don't have the ability to bundle and they don't want to allocate the IT resources or operating resources to change to a new system.
Inc.</strong> And so it would be more resistance on their end than your end at this point I would say.
Absolutely.
And sometimes there's differences in data that you talked about bundling with someone and they think they're paying a certain amount and we think they're paying something else because it's spread across different states and different billing systems and all the rest.
And so even if you agreed conceptually on neutrality so to speak you can't achieve it because you have different definitions of what reality is.
That will just be another real-world answer to the question that you asked.
Your next question comes from Andreas Dirnagl with Stephens.
Kent actually I just want to follow up on one of those questions just now in terms of -- given your experience with CMS over the years and sort of insight into how they think have you ever seen them be concerned with sort of specific fluctuations in margin? Or are they more concerned with specifically what their spending in other words the budget? In other words are they going to look at margins in the industry maybe going up? Or are they going to look at the fact that their spending went down 2% year-to-year? Andreas very fair question.
My experience is they periodically look at both.
So they will look at aggregate results.
But they know that the average margin for a Fresenius or for a DaVita or for any one is different from their distribution of margins.
So we are still sitting here with -- I'm not going to get the number exactly right up -- 150 centers that are losing money.
And at some point if Medicare economics become worse we have to give up on a fair number of those.
While at the same time clearly on average we are profitable.
So A they do look at margins overall but they recognize that margins are an average.
Second they do look at performance versus budget.
And the fact is the new science combined with the incentives and innovation prompted by bundling have led to some nice savings versus the baseline that used to be on and that does make them happy as it would make you and I happy if we were in their shoes.
Is that helpful? Yes actually quite.
And sort of maybe building on that sort of moving back to DaVita for a second then.
If you look at the work that you and even the rest of the industry have done a lot of it and a lot of investor questions are always centered around EPO utilization.
I wondering can you give any color on sort of other areas that you're potentially looking at? I mean are we going to see potentially sort of some slight margin increases coming from putting pressure on other drug manufacturers? Are you looking at labor productivity improvements that you can push through now that you're really motivated with this fixed price reimbursement? Well on the labor side Andreas if I'm understanding the question we were bundled before since all our labor costs were captured in the bundle of the prior dialysis treatment amount.
So I'm worried that I might be misunderstanding the question.
Can you come at it again? Well I'm just thinking you're -- clearly you and the industry are now spending a lot of time thinking how can we reduce our cost across the board.
And I'm wondering whether that focus whether it be on other drugs beside EPO whether it be on labor or even some other things I'm not thinking of whether that sort of renewed focus is bearing any fruit in terms of saying "Okay.
You know what? We could be more efficient here." Okay.
I would say yes.
There are other areas where we've been able to innovate and those successes or the expectations of those successes has been baked into our guidance which we discussed earlier.
And this is also why at the top of the call I talked about 1 of the 4 important government contextual factors being our desire in the increased chance of getting an even broader government bundle that will start to incorporate things like vascular access or some other items that are outside the current dialysis bundle.
But we are confident that if we were given that revenue and that accountability we could come up with better ways of doing it.
And so yes there are some successes and they're baked into the guidance.
And yes we hope the bundle gets broader yet so we can do more of that.
Okay.
Great.
And then just maybe before I move on to Luis quickly.
I'm just curious Kent and again in the international arena again a single management of a single clinic in Singapore.
You've got 2 footprints in 2 clinics with a minority interest in India.
I'm kind of curious first of all: A who you've chosen to kind of run this operation and run the investigation? Are you taking someone an existing DaVita person and kind of moving them to Asia? Are you looking to local talent so to speak? And then quite bluntly at this rate how do you expect to spend $20 million on this this year? Yes Andreas and we do recognize the ratio of overhead dollars to treatment is a little hefty right now.
We have hired a local executive based in Singapore a former American Express executive.
He starts I think -- I think he started yesterday or the day before.
And we have other people on the ground in a couple of different places around the globe including that equity investment in India.
And so right now of course we have -- we labor under tremendous diseconomies of scale not only because the operations are small but the legal expenses and compliance expenses are very very high as we get to know each new market and its regulations.
So it's going to be pretty closely inefficient for a while and this new executive is hopefully going to drive enough growth so that in X number of years we can manage the fixed cost infrastructure to your satisfaction.
Am I giving you the information you want or am I missing the boat? Well I think so.
I think mainly -- let me restate it and see if I'm understanding it correctly.
Basically you have an infrastructure and are building an infrastructure that is disproportionate to the number of clinics that you're either managing or have an interest in at the moment and it's not just people on the ground in Singapore and India? That is true.
But one big qualifier most of the losses that you're seeing are not because we've got legions of people lined up taking care of a smaller number of patients in 1 center in Singapore and 2 in India.
It is because of very high legal regulatory and compliance expenses associated with getting started.
So a whole lot of those expenses are not recurring in that sense once we get our local entities set up in a legal fashion once we get our deal templates down.
Now those nonrecurring deal-related legal-related and compliance-related expenses will go down.
But at the same time assuming we're adding a whole bunch of centers the actual recurring operating expenses and G&amp;A expenses will go up.
But the good news is they'll be going up because we're running dialysis centers not because we're paying a lot of attorneys for a lot of hours of work.
Great.
That actually clears it up quite a bit.
It's very helpful.
Just one quick 1 or 2 for Luis then.
Luis whenever you talk about the guidance for 2011 and 2012 you've been very clear that your estimate of 0 OI contribution from DSI for 2011 is net of transaction and integration costs.
Have you made a decision as to whether or not you're going to be breaking those out? And if so were there any one-time transaction or integrations costs in this quarter? We -- our plan is to break those out next quarter once we firmed those up.
We have very little that we've taken in so far so not really material to the results.
Okay.
Great.
And then finally in your discussion about the sort of government reimbursement outlook you talked about a number of states reducing rates including potentially in California of 10%.
You also talked about the VA rates.
Can I assume that those are incorporated in your guidance with your normal sort of probabilistic outlook? The answer is yes.
We've been very thoughtful about the range of outcomes for both '11 and '12 on that point.
And sir you have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well thanks to everyone for your attention to our enterprise.
We were very content with the quarter both in terms of its results and its momentum both clinically and financially and we will do our best in the quarters to come.
Thanks again.
Thank you for joining today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good evening and welcome to today's DaVita Q3 Earnings Conference Call.
I would like to introduce today's host Mr.
Jim Gustafson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Keshia and welcome everyone to our third quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations and with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Luis Borgen our CFO and; LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Okay.
Thank you Jim and thanks to all of you for your interest in DaVita.
Third quarter as you all already know was a very strong quarter.
We performed well in both the clinical and operating areas.
I'll cover 4 topics: Clinical outcomes government reimbursement litigation and our outlook.
First clinical outcomes which we always present first because that is what comes first.
We are first and foremost a caregiver company serving approximately 138 000 patients.
With respect to adequacy which as many of you know is essentially how well we are doing at removing toxins from our patients' blood this past quarter 97% of our hemodialysis patients had a Kt/V greater than 1.2.
Second with respect to vascular access 69% of our patients have fistulas the preferred form.
And for these and virtually all other clinical measures our patient outcomes compared very favorable to national averages.
And this quality clinical care not only results in healthier patients but also drives reductions in hospitalizations and surgical procedures and therefore significant savings to the U.S.
taxpayer.
On to government reimbursement.
Pretty obvious to everyone there's a lot of pressure to reduce costs in Medicare.
The bad news is that could mean at some point they reduce our rates that would hurt.
A little bit of silver lining in that cloud is that it could lead to increased acquisition opportunities at attractive prices and it will generate more interest in our proven ability to reduce hospitalizations through our integrated care product.
So we are not trying to argue that the bad news is masked by the good news but there are some silver linings in that cloud if and when it arrives.
And also we have been talking with you for a while about our ongoing negotiations with the VA.
This past quarter we came to a significant agreement with them for new and lower rates.
And these rates are effective October 1 and their impact has already been incorporated into our guidance for 2011 and 2012.
We've been hearing some questions about whether CMS will rebase rates and if so when.
And the answer is well at some point they will and we don't know when.
Typically they wait 3 to 5 years and would only be inclined to accelerate if there was compelling reason to do so and we're barely 10 months into the bundle with an awful lot of dynamism still going on.
And do keep in mind that when we entered the bundle not only did we take the 2% straight haircut on reimbursement but in addition components of the bundled calculation were based on the lower of the different drug utilizations in '07 '08 and '09 not the exit rate and so that was an additional cut.
And then on top of that you know that we've got the issues with the case mix adjustors where it's impossible for us to acquire the information that they're requiring thereby meaning we're not getting paid for case mix adjustments we should be paid for.
Even in their own minds although they have not relaxed the administrative standards.
So the actual haircut we took was well above the 2% that was obvious and linear and we still lose money on Medicare on average.
However on average is not always the most relevant way to think about it since across 1 800 or so centers is of course a portfolio of normal distribution of economic outcomes.
Some are high profits some are low profits some are breakeven and some operate at a loss.
And so when CMS looks to rebase rates they have to wait for actual data look at total reimbursement and also have to pay a lot of attention to not putting the very substantial percentage of centers that are operating slightly above breakeven or in that area into a position where they get closed.
And then finally the government investigations -- or not finally but the next to finally the government investigations and litigation.
Luis our CFO will provide more color.
I'll just make a few important points.
Of course we take these matters seriously always have always will.
But we are literally eager to get to have substantive conversations with the government.
Unfortunately that typically takes several quarters or even a couple of years for that to really start happening.
And in the meantime we just feel with the fact that they are interested in checking us out.
As we've discussed before if you look over the last 12 years in our massively regulated industry our track record of compliance is well-established and very strong compared to virtually any other major healthcare service provider and many other healthcare providers companies as well.
Our business practices have gone through extensive internal and external review and we work hard to create and sustain a culture of compliance at our company as well as policies and systems to support that culture.
We literally look forward to defending ourselves vigorously in all these matters.
But I repeat it always takes a long time.
And In the interim we just all have to wait.
We went through this a couple of times before in the 12 years and it's no fun waiting but there's nothing we can do about it.
Onto our outlook.
We are raising our 2011 operating income guidance range to be between $1.125 billion and -- excuse me $1.155 billion.
This guidance excludes the noncash goodwill impairment taken last quarter and we are maintaining our 2012 operating income guidance range from $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion.
And this 2012 guidance incorporates the majority of the probabilistic outcomes based on our assessment of a myriad of swing factors.
Longer term there's just some important considerations to keep in mind.
We have a strong nationwide position.
This is a discrete highly discrete healthcare segment with discrete center-level economics.
It's not a controversial service.
There is consistent demand.
Our outcomes are outstanding and we are very well positioned to bring value to both private and public payers by reducing hospitalizations.
And we're looking at increasing interests in that although it's not something that one can use to get at a loan from a bank tomorrow nonetheless we all are reading the newspapers and know how focused people are getting on trying to reduce the overall cost of healthcare.
Thank you.
And I'll turn now -- turn the call over to Luis Borgen our CFO.
Thanks Kent.
Before I discuss the quarter let me say a few words about the government inquiries and the private civil litigation all of which have -- we've previously disclosed.
You have to forgive me but given the sensitivity of these matters I'll be reading these points.
First the 2011 U.S.
Attorney physician relationship investigation.
As we disclosed in August we learned that our federal grand jury investigation is pending.
As announced we did receive a subpoena for documents in this matter.
The subpoena was expected as part of the typical process in such an investigation.
And it is the first request for information that the company has received in this matter.
The scope of the document subpoena substantially overlaps with the previously disclosed 2010 U.S.
Attorney physician relationship investigation and appears to be limited to physician relationships.
We believe this investigation is still at a very early stage.
We are actively discussing the scope of the subpoena with the U.S.
Attorney's office and cannot comment further.
I do want to offer a few words about grand jury investigations in general.
A grand jury is a way by which the U.S.
Attorney investigates and obtains evidence in order to determine if they want to pursue a matter.
A grand jury does not determine the guilt or innocence of a person or company.
As far as we know there is nothing unique or unusual about the process here.
The mere existence of an investigation does not mean that something negative must follow.
No charges have been brought in connection with this investigation.
Second the 2011 U.S.
Attorney Medicaid inquiry recently informed that the U.S.
Attorney's office in the Eastern district of New York is looking into a Medicaid manner.
A few points on this.
Number one we were initially informed that we would receive a subpoena and that other providers in New York were receiving a subpoena.
We then learned that in fact another provider had already received a subpoena.
Number two thereafter we talked with the U.S.
Attorney office and agreed that we would provide documents without a subpoena.
Number three we do not know the time or scope of this inquiry.
Other than it is regarding Medicaid billing for some non-EPO pharmaceuticals.
We always take these matters seriously and intend to continue cooperating with the government.
In all these matters we are eager to share our practices with the government.
Recently there has been a lot of speculation on these matters.
We advise you to read our disclosures.
Now let me turn to some discussion of the third quarter.
We saw very solid trends in the quarter reflecting strong treatment growth a slight improvement in revenue per treatment despite a decline in commercial mix and decreased cost per treatment due primarily to a decline in utilization of physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals.
All of this resulted in continued strong operating income and cash flows.
Here are some specifics for the quarter.
Non-acquired growth was 4.6% when normalized for days of the week.
The dialysis revenue per treatment was up $1.56.
The primary driver was an improvement in commercial rates and seasonally higher revenue for patient vaccinations.
This is partially offset by a decline in commercial treatment mix and a decline in revenue from physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals.
Dialysis patient care cost per treatment was down approximately $7 from the prior quarter due primarily to a reduction in utilization of physician-prescribed EPOGEN.
A few words about physician prescribing trends.
Some physicians have been adapting their prescribing practices to the new FDA label for EPO and we are seeing declines in utilization.
Management practices have been quite dynamic for the past few years as physicians incorporate new research and perspectives in their prescribing practices.
This evolution has been especially apparent this year as FDA has made changes to the EPO label and CMS has made changes to QIP reflecting the emerging science.
Physicians are still weighing the most appropriate practices that lead to good clinical outcomes while ensuring that patients are not subjected to inappropriate risks from either maintaining too high or too low hemoglobin level.
All this means anemia management continues to be very dynamic and it is unclear where utilization will settle longer term.
Our G&amp;A was up $2.36 within the dialysis segment.
This reflects cost for the DSI transaction and integration of about $9 million.
Higher legal and compliance expenses in the quarter and as previously reported we expect G&amp;A cost will be higher in the fourth quarter as we experience ongoing DSI transaction and integration costs of a similar amount as in the third quarter as well as increased expenses in several areas including legal and compliance IT and continued investment in our international growth.
Operating cash flow year-to-date was strong at $1.029 billion.
We continue to expect strong operating cash flows this year and are raising our 2011 guidance to the range of $1.02 billion to $1.1 billion.
Given that 2011 cash will benefited from the favorability in the timing of a number of working capital items including the timing of cash tax payments due to bonus tax depreciation.
We currently project that our operating cash flows in 2012 are likely to be flat or slightly down from this year.
In the quarter we deployed $46 million on development CapEx $724 million on DSI and $52 million on other acquisitions.
That's the DSI acquisition.
The acquisition closed in early September and the DSI centers are reflected in our numbers effective September 1.
In the acquisition we acquired 113 centers and divested 28 centers during the third quarter.
We also divested another 2 centers on October 31 2011.
These divestitures are consistent with our previously disclosed estimates.
We continue to forecast that 2011 operating income contributions from the DSI acquisition will be approximately 0 due to the transaction and integration costs in the third and fourth quarter.
Operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Gary Lieberman.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering on the grand jury investigation there was an article in the Denver Post today.
If you guys had any comments on that article? This is Kent I have not read it.
I guess the only comment than I can make based on what I've heard about it but again I haven't read it is it is common sense that the value of a business can change dramatically if the market and our competitive conditions change that's common sense.
And of course you guys see it all the time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then maybe if you could give us an update on how the negotiations with Amgen are going on the contract for EPO? Well Gary you know the answer to that.
I'd say they're constructive and thoughtful and they continue.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just finally it looked like you guys discussed the decrease in the cost per treatment.
Is there any further detail you could provide us with? Is 100% of it due to reductions in pharma or is that some -- is there anything else driving the reduction in the cost per treatment? For the current quarter Q3 that's essentially -- yes it's primarily pharma Gary.
Your next question comes from Matt Weight.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the revenue per treatment up sequentially here and I know you referenced the managed care contracting is it safe to assume the commercial contracting a majority of that is already bundled in terms of the contracts? We haven't been disclosing what percent of the portfolio is bundled versus not.
It's just said that it's been going up steadily.
And part of that it's -- there's so many different metrics you can use to define the denominator it gets really difficult so it's continuing to increase steadily.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As you look towards next year outside of anemia management can you give us any sense what other maybe levers that are out there to pull whether it's looking at vitamin D subcu or other areas in terms of potential protocol changes? Well first predicting protocol changes is difficult because they're driven by changes in science and physicians' perspectives.
So it's really a difficult one for us.
Although of course at any moment in time we know what our docs are telling us.
And right now I don't know of anything our docs -- that our docs are telling us have major consequences.
That could change if there's some new article or study.
But at this point we at least I don't know have anything dramatic our physicians are saying beyond the ongoing debate in the anemia area.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Last question here and then I'll jump off.
Non-acquired growth strong for the second consecutive quarter outpacing your larger competitor there.
Is there anything that you want to highlight to what's driving that is this a sustainable kind of run rate do you think right now? We hope so.
But I don't think we're ready to sign up for that as a commitment.
And relative to our competition who knows it could be that we're carrying more centers that have a lower private mix or we're carrying more centers that are losing money.
So any single metric can be a little misleading.
But we're hoping we can maintain the current rate.
Your next question comes from Justin Lake.
Research Division</strong> First question just a quick follow-up on the Denver Post article is there any comments or you can give us in terms of whether you believe the Denver Post has it right in terms of this is the main crux of the issue it's part of you understand that it's around this one joint venture agreement? We know that they are not limiting their inquiry into that 1 transaction.
All we know is that they're looking at a small number but it's not just one.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just one more question on those lines.
It's in terms of having a transaction where you're selling a significant number of centers for -- because of some kind of market disruption at a rate that might look unusual.
Would you call this is a one-off or is this a single instance one of the handful or is this something that happens fairly regularly? I can't comment on that specifically Justin it's just not in your best interest.
But just generically unusual things don't happen often and so I just can't go any further and I can't really talk about this specific thing at all.
Just want to go back to the common sense statement that if there is a situation or scenario where there's a dramatic change in the market and our competitive conditions then the value of a business can change dramatically.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Just next question on capital deployment.
Curious if -- I noticed you didn't buy back much stock third quarter.
Was there any reason for that and could you buy back anything thus far in the fourth quarter? Hold on one second Justin please.
Okay.
Justin we're considering several capital deployment opportunities.
One of which is obviously acquisitions.
That coupled with the recent volatility in the debt markets we thought it would be prudent to conserve cash and deployment for potential acquisitions heading forward so that's kind of how we're thinking about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So right now you would say that you have an interesting M&amp;A pipeline and therefore you expect to build up cash over the next couple of quarters would that be fair? We continue to look at various opportunities one of those we're deploying towards M&amp;A opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Justin I think what led us to hesitate is just when you said for the next few quarters or several quarters or something and since we look at our cash deployment as you know with a great rigor every quarter we get real nervous when you ask us to say what's going to be true 2 or 3 quarters down the line on that topic because reality can change a lot quarter-to-quarter.
So I think that's why you felt a little pause there.
Your next question comes from Kevin Fischbeck.
This is actually Joanna Gajuk today for Kevin.
Can you just clarify for me I heard you said there was additional cost for a DSI integration of $9 million and is that correct that you said you expect similar amounts in the fourth quarter? In Q3 we had about $9 million related to transaction and integration costs for Q3 and in Q4 we expect a similar amount for DSI as well.
Is that clear enough for you? Yes.
And on a completely different topic I have actually a question about that selling negotiations.
Because one of the proposal calls for a reduction or even a complete elimination of Medicare bad debt payment for providers.
So the question I have for you is whether it's actually impacting dialysis providers? And then if that's the case how much money do you receive or have you received for example in 2010 for Medicare bad debt? Yes so the bad debt policy if it were changed could impact dialysis.
And we just have not disclosed our range of recovery there from Medicare to date.
All right.
Because when I was reading your 10-K I found there is -- there was a disclosure about Medicare bad debt receivables of $46 million in 2010.
That's obviously on the balance sheet so the question I have is whether my estimation here is right because this would be on the receivables right? But then you have to consider Medicare payment cycles and also the process you have to go through to demonstrate to CMS that you actually tried to collect and failed.
So is that fair to assume that maybe the revenue number would be something in the range of 3x to 4x of that reasonable amount? No.
That wouldn't be a fair assumption to presume that multiple.
Would you be willing to share with us another multiple that's more appropriate here? Let me tell you what it does do.
For Medicare the process under which we go through takes us 1 year to 2 to collect a bad debt so I think that should be helpful for you.
Your next question comes from Frank Morgan.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions for you.
On the DSI acquisition I'm wondering if you could compare your organic volume growth there compared to your recent company averages disclosed in the quarter? And then secondly on the VA contract any more details? I think you mentioned pricing had dropped there any level of magnitude? Or is it a -- is this more like a bundled payment contract? Can you just give me at least more details on how the VA contract works? Let me hit the second one and then someone else will hit the first.
With respect to the VA it's not in our shareholders' best interest for us to start talking about what the rate is nor the structure of the rate.
So we'll stay away from that to protect you.
And as to the first question I'll turn it over.
Yes DSI is not in our non-calculation it's acquired growth Frank.
LLC Research Division</strong> But I guess if you just looked at it on a stand-alone basis was it growing volume at about the rate or the rate of growth organically that you are seeing? I'm 90% sure that their neg was significantly lower than ours the non-acquired growth that is.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just with regard to your very strong same-store organic growth in the quarter were there any particular pockets regionally geographically where you saw a better growth? And that's all I have.
There is always some element of differentiation according to different segmentation including often geographic but we don't disclose it because that's competitively useful.
Your next question comes from Kevin Ellich.
Research Division</strong> Just [indiscernible] Hello? Kevin you were cutting in and out for us.
[Technical Difficulty] Research Division</strong> So on the share buyback you guys repurchased I think $7 million this quarter.
So are we currently at $350 million left on the buyback? Our remaining authorization Kevin is $358 million.
Research Division</strong> $358 million? Okay got it.
And then Kent just wondering if you could give us your thoughts or commentary on the final Medicare regs that came out a couple of days ago.
I think the market basket rate updates 2.1%.
Should we expect anything more with the case mix adjustor given the size of your company? And then also thoughts on the QIP that came out as well? Sure Kevin it's LeAnne.
You're right we didn't receive a 2.1% update on the Medicare base rates.
The transition adjustment as you know stayed at 0 and they actually made no movement to help us with case mix.
So we still will go into 2012 struggling to document those case mix adjustors.
We plan to work with CMS on it and I think they're open to solutions but so far it's not proven to be successful.
With respect to the QIP as you know 2012 was finalized previously with 3 metrics.
What this really address is really 2013 and 2014.
2013 will now be 2 metrics: URR adequacy and a greater than 12 hemoglobin measures.
So those 2 were pretty expected and they'll weighted 50/50.
Into 2014 just to give you a little bit of color if you want more details certainly we can do this offline.
But there are 2 categories there's going to be outcomes metrics and there's 3 in that area which are URR hemoglobin greater than 12.
And then a new measure which is the combined catheter and fistula measure.
Then there's another category which is reporting and that's going to be worth 10% of the QIP dollars and in reporting there'll be an infection measure patient survey measure and then a calcium phosphorous monitoring if we do those.
So that's pretty much the high level would you like to ask a more detailed question? Research Division</strong> No.
I just generally wanted your thoughts if you think these are good for you or I guess what's your take.
Yes we won the 2012 payment rollers pretty much what we expect and I think as you would've expected.
And moving forward into the QIP I think there's still a few things that as we add more measures in 2014 we'll be working with CMS to improve.
I think we very much agree on the principle of being paid for delivering good quality.
The unfortunate reality is that the method that CMS can deploy right now is pretty simplistic and there does need to be a more robust calculation and we're hopeful that over the next few years we'll be able to work with them to implement that.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay.
And then just switching over to anemia management wondering if you could comment on where your EPO reductions stands at this point.
And then also I believe in early October the National Kidney Foundation put out some draft clinical guidelines that might actually suggest lower hemoglobin targets just wondering what you thought about that any comments? Sure.
On your first point on the EPO reduction.
We expect it's very dynamic and so we don't exactly when it's going to settle out.
We do -- the key is what the physician adoption is and exactly how physicians are going to prescribe EPOGEN relative to the label change and all of the emerging signs so it's still very dynamic area for us and we'll see where it settles out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any commentary about the National Kidney Foundation draft guidelines? Well you hit on the head they are draft.
We will see where they finalize.
Certainly they were looking at and exploring a lower limit for hemoglobin.
But I think it's best to just put that on hold until such time that they're issued.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the question here is just wondering is there any protocol when you have a joint venture with physicians in determining the fair market value? I mean I guess do you use a third party is that very consistent throughout the industry? Hold on one a second please.
Yes there's a protocol but we can't go into any detail in a public conversation given all the different litigation.
Your next question comes from Darren Lehrich.
Research Division</strong> Luis I wanted to just go back to the comments about revenue per treatment.
You guys have highlighted the case mix rather the managed care mix I should say.
Can you just tell us where it was on a percentage basis? Or how much it moved sequentially and what were the main drivers of that? Was it mortality? Was is it any kind of different dynamics in the quarter that you saw? On the managed care mix I'm assuming your referring to the commercial treatment mix that was down quarter-over-quarter.
And I can tell you that it's the same 2 factors that we've seen all along.
Number one is the macroeconomic factors lower employment less people who have higher paid insurance and number two would be our improvement in mortality rates.
Research Division</strong> And where is the mix at this point percentage-wise? We don't disclose the specific percent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I think you have been disclosing the number directionally.
I think we were headed at 1 point towards 11 or are we closer to 12? That would be helpful to us.
We're still rounding to 11%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your commentary about G&amp;A costs you highlighted the integration costs of DSI I missed one other point that you made that was a factor.
I think obviously international spend is in there.
But was there another point that I missed and can you just maybe go back to your comments about the rise in G&amp;A? Sure.
So the key factors are in addition to the DSI transaction and integration it's legal and compliance spending coupled with incremental IT and international.
Those are the 4 key drivers of our G&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just on international I would love to get a brief update what new geographies you're now in.
I think there has been fair amount of activity in Europe as well.
And just can you update us in regards to the amount of spend that's flowing through G&amp;A at this point in relation to the range that you put out probably about a year ago? On the geographies Darren we're thinking still that the less we talk about that the better since we're competing with folks.
But suffice it to say we're active in a few parts of the world and we've closed a couple little deals and we've built up a team that's significantly more coherent than the one we had 5 months ago 6 months ago.
And it's expensive from a G&amp;A point of view.
I think we're pretty much on track with what we said 9 months or 1 year ago but I'm going to defer to others on that.
On the spend levels for 2011 our annual spend is expected to be about $20 million for this year.
And now it's a little more back-end loaded than front-end loaded in terms of 2011 spend.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Then LeAnne I had a question for you.
I know you've been talking about the inability to capture case mix adjustors but I think at one point in the conversation there was some progress that you thought you've been making.
So if my memory serves me you're leaving me with $2 a treatment on the table or somewhere thereabouts.
Have you been able to cut into that number? Is it the same? Maybe just a brief update on the value of sort of what you're not able to capture this point.
Yes the range would still be $1 to $2 per Medicare treatment that we're not capturing.
We've made a slight amount of headway but it's cumbersome and costly.
We're really spending a pretty fair amount of what we get paid back in obtaining that documentation so it's still a pretty costly process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question for you is just any updated at all that you can provide on your ability or success to get paid for more frequent dialysis for home therapies with the Medicare contractors is there anything new or different in terms of how you're finding success with that? No they're pretty status quo there.
Your next question comes from Ben Andrew.
Research Division</strong> Given that we had expected DSI to hurt payor mix a little bit as you integrate that.
And you commented that you did see a negative payor mix this quarter could you isolate for us the effect of DSI and talk about what trends you're seeing in the core business if those accelerated stayed the same? There's a de minimis impact in the quarter DSI only contributed to 1/3 of the quarter given that we closed in early September.
And what was the second part of your question please? Research Division</strong> So on a full quarter basis then the payor mix for DSI is not materially different than the core business? We're not going to break out the DSI mix versus our core mix.
I'd say it is immaterial to our results in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is there any comments you can make on whether the trends on payor mix are getting worse or kind of stable? It is declining.
Last quarter it was up.
This quarter it was down so it's hard predict where that's going to shake out.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor.
Research Division</strong> A couple of small ones I think.
The first is I mean given that you guys -- you raised your guidance recently in response to the lower pharmaceutical intensity after the label change does it still make sense to you that '12 or the second half of '12 and 2013 would also demonstrate lower pharmaceutical intensity or is that too difficult to predict at this point? Could you say that question again please Gary? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess what I'm trying to understand was the street obviously for a long time has thought that movement to a bundle where you'd see a change in terms of lower EPO dosing.
And clearly the label change accelerated that versus street expectations.
And I guess I'm kind of wondering if it accelerated it versus your own expectations.
And does it make sense that that trend would continue once we anniversary the second half of '12 and into 2013? Well first it's just pretty hard for us to predict because we get hundreds literally thousands of doctors out there reacting to CMS changes and guidance reacting to the FDA label reacting to the conferences they go to reacting to the articles they read reaction to what's going on in their patient population each month as they change their practices.
So it's just very very difficult to predict.
We certainly don't think that there's going to be as big of a change over the next 12 months as the last 12 months because that's not we're hearing from physicians.
But to go a lot further and start talking about whether or not we can extrapolate this month's trend we just can't.
We just have no ability to do that.
There's too much dynamism too many doctors drawing different micro decisions about what to do with their patients.
Research Division</strong> Thank you.
Second one is maybe for Luis.
Excluding changes in pharmaceutical intensity in '12 what would be your underlying operating expense growth per treatment in '12 what would be a reasonable range excluding any change in Pharma? That's a hard one to predict because it's so integrated in our model.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I guess it's primarily labor I'm talking about so maybe we narrow it down to labor and it's a 2% year-over-year number or is there a reason to think if productivity it could be better than that? Some people will try to strip out the numbers to answer your question let me come to it in a minute or 2.
LLC Research Division</strong> And my last one if you wouldn't mind.
Just a technical one.
Did your -- given that you have a blackout around earnings reporting dates did the pre-announcement on October 18 did that free you up I guess from the blackout.
In other words were you able to repurchase shares between the pre-announcement and today's full release? I'll let Kim Rivera General Counsel handle that question because I don't know for sure what the answer is.
For a period of time yes that would have allowed us to repurchase shares.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Art Henderson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Luis we saw an uptick this quarter in minority interest and I was just curious if you could explain that and what we should expect going forward with respect to that line item? Sure it's driven forward by 2 factors increased profitability of our overall enterprise and number two a higher proportion of JVs as part of that mix.
Going forward you can expect it to be similar to our operating income as it was this quarter.
That would be a good way to think about it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's helpful.
And then Kent can you talk a little bit about commercial contracting dynamics? I know a year or couple years ago that was a hot topic and just was curious what the current environment is when you go to the table with managed care.
I know it's always difficult but can you kind of talk about that a little bit? The environment I guess its the same and different.
It's the same in that we've got lots of intense battles going on every single month of the year.
In aggregate things have been a little bit more stable the last 12 months and the 12 months maybe 2 years ago or 3 years ago.
But it doesn't feel like a trend to us.
It just feels like a temporary relative low in the battle.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Going back to the cash flow I guess comments that you made earlier I just want to make sure I understood this correctly.
With respect to near-term cash flow deployment you're saying that you're just building cash at the moment I guess looking at the fourth quarter is that the way to sort of think about it near-term? We did what we did in the third quarter because it seemed like the right thing to do.
And we haven't decided what we're going to do in the fourth quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one just in terms of the DSI integration I know you quantified expenses around that can you talk about what you're doing right now with the DSI integration? When you say what we're doing let me take a stab at it and then you tell me if I'm not being useful.
The integration is going quite well.
We've got to get everybody on the same IT platform we got to get everybody on the same benefits and other human resource policies.
We've got to rationalize reporting relationships because some of their folks are going to switch and report into regions and divisions of old DaVita and vice versa.
So that's the kind of integration stuff that's going on is that responsive? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
That's why I was curious.
And I assume that some of the IT integration takes longer than some of the other things is there a way to sort of think about what gets done first? And I know they're all working in tandem but anyway to think about that Kent? It does take longer to be honest I don't know when this one is scheduled to be done.
I'm going to guess -- I'm just going to guess 6 to 9 months.
But somebody maybe will be able -- before the call is over to get the real answer although we might not have it here at the table.
[Operator Instructions] And you have a follow-up question from Justin Lake.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to my question originally around fourth quarter share repurchase.
I can't remember if you actually answered that specifically or not did you buy shares during that open window you had in the fourth quarter? No we did not.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just last question any update on the potential for a greater bundle or an ACO-type of your payment for Medicare? No.
We continue to get some positive feedback but it's nothing you can take to the bank.
And back to the DSI IT integration question its scheduled to be done by March.
So 6 months since we started it.
And one other follow-up.
Gary Taylor I believe had a question regarding cost structure.
The answer to that is you can roughly think about it as inflation growth labor would have some productivity but all the other lines think about growing with inflation is that helpful? Oh he can't Gary's not on the line so he can't respond.
And I'll go back to another point that someone brought up I said I was 90% confident or some percentage confident that DSI had lower neg non-acquired growth than we did and we have that confirmed theirs was lower than ours.
And your next question comes from Darren Lehrich.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow up.
In the ancillary services strategic initiatives segment it's still growing nicely.
You did cross over to a slight operating profit here.
Do you think that's the inflection point? Was there anything unusual to call out that sort of got you over that hump? And should we be thinking about more consistent profitability over the next 12 months in that part? You've had guidance out there so I'm thinking it's somehow incorporated into the guidance? Yes you're right it's incorporated into the guidance.
And there's no reason to expect anything dramatic there one way or the other because it's a portfolio of 5 6 7 little things.
Some not so little some quite little some pretty pure R&amp;D.
And therefore designed to be money losers versus others that are designed to get to profit and some of them have.
It's so tough to predict.
But there's nothing dramatic going on and it's incorporated in the guidance.
[Operator Instructions] Operator I guess that's it.
And we have no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Well thanks everybody for your interest.
We will work hard for you until the next call 3 months from now.
Thanks.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jamaria and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the DaVita Q4 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Jim Gustafson.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jamaria and welcome everyone to our fourth quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations and with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Luis Borgen our CFO; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements are based upon information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally I'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Okay.
Greetings.
Let me first repeat Jim's thanks for your interest in our/your company.
The fourth quarter was a strong one and 2011 was a strong year both clinically operationally and financially.
Because we just completed a fiscal year I'll cover a few more topics than usual: Number one as always clinical outcomes; number two 2011 acquisitions; number three a brief investigations update; number four a little snippet of info on DaVita Rx our specialty pharmacy group; number five the concept and potential reality of integrated care; number six our outlook going forward; and number seven discuss a little bit of recent organizational announcement.
I'll try to be crisp [ph] since there's more than usual.
First our clinical outcomes.
We always present those first because that is what comes first.
We are first and foremost a caregiver company serving now approximately 142 000 patients about 1 out of 3 in America.
With respect to adequacy which is essentially how well we're doing at removing toxins from our patient's blood this quarter 97% of our hemodialysis patients had a Kt/V greater than 1.2.
And with respect to vascular access 69% of our patients have fistulas the preferred form of vascular access.
For these and virtually all other clinical measures our patient outcomes compare very favorably to national averages.
And I'll take a moment to say that in 2011 for the 11th year in a row we're able to state unambiguously that we had better clinical outcomes in the prior year which means also our best ones ever.
We hope we can repeat those words to you in one more year at the beginning of 2013.
Moving on to number two on the acquisition front.
As you know most of you we closed and are integrating DSI which added 83 centers net of divestitures.
The integration is going solidly.
But in addition to that we closed acquisitions of an additional 65 centers.
All of these transactions added more than 10 000 new patients who are entrusting us with their essential care and we are very focused on providing that great care as well as ensuring good returns on a significant amount of your capital that we deployed in that fashion in that year.
Third I'd like to give you a brief update on one of the litigation investigations the 2011 U.S.
Attorney Physician Relationship Investigation that we have discussed with you before.
The investigation as expected is continuing and theyve now asked for testimony by some executives of the company and some current and former members of the board through subpoenas.
Asking for some live testimonies was to be expected.
We have cooperated with their historical requests.
We will continue to cooperate.
At this point they are collecting information.
No charges have been filed and we look forward to beginning substantive discussions with the government and are hoping that happens soon.
Number four DaVita Rx had a very successful year.
They grew revenue about 45% to over $300 million and are modestly in the black.
They are now providing important oral medication management services for over 41 000 patients and providing strong clinical benefits to our patients and strong support services and information to our physicians.
On to number five the substantive integrated care which we've talked about a little bit more lately.
For those of you who are new to the concept it's essentially a kidney-care-focused ACO to use some of the modern-day hospital jargon.
It means we're going to hopefully manage the full $88 000 a year of total medical costs per Medicare dialysis patients instead of just the $33 000 or so that is consumed by dialysis.
We've had very serious and constructive discussions with CMS discussing this and it is being seriously considered.
If we get the opportunity to do this it will be a major opportunity to increase our value proposition to America.
Higher quality more services for patients lower total costs primarily through reduced hospitalizations and we think a very very attractive return on capital to our shareholders because of that dramatically enhanced value proposition for the government and to society.
Too soon to tell always difficult to handicap but we've never before been having conversations this specific and this serious.
Number six moving on to our outlook.
The message here is simple.
We're maintaining our 2012 operating income guidance range which is $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion and that range captures a majority of the powalistic [ph] outcomes when you take into account all the various swing factors with which many of you are quite familiar at this point.
And finally number seven the board Dennis Kogod our Chief Operating Officer and me were very excited to announce the recent promotion of Javier Rodriguez to the title of President of DaVita.
He will serve as a full tier to Dennis Kogod and the 3 of us will work together in the future as we have in the past as a tight team.
This promotion not surprisingly reflects the strong performance and leadership and growth that JR Javier that is has demonstrated in recent years in fact for many years.
And with that happy ending note I'll turn the call over to our CFO Luis Borgen.
Thank you.
Thanks Kent.
We had strong operating income and cash flow in the quarter driven by strong treatment growth and improved cost per treatment.
Offsetting these factors are lower revenue per treatment and a continued decline in commercial mix.
Here's some specifics on the quarter.
Non-acquired growth was 4.8% when normalized for days of the week.
Dialysis revenue per treatment was down about $5.
The primary drivers were a decline in commercial mix our new agreements with the VA and a declining utilization of physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals and finally declined revenue from vaccinations which were seasonally high in the third quarter.
Dialysis patient care cost per treatment was down about $7 from the prior quarter due to 2 main factors: one a reduction in utilization of physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals mainly Epogen; and two seasonally lower payroll costs.
Note that EPO utilization was consistent throughout the fourth quarter and based on our conversations with physicians we expect utilization to be at current or slightly higher levels going forward.
Our fourth quarter dialysis G&amp;A per treatment was up slightly from the prior quarter primarily due to IT projects and legal and compliance spend.
This fourth quarter G&amp;A includes approximately $8 million for DSI integration which was similar to the amount we incurred in the third quarter.
We expect some continued spending on DSI in the first quarter of 2012.
International losses were about $20 million for the year in line with our previous guidance.
Note that in the fourth quarter we changed the presentation of internal spending on our financial statements moving our international results out of the U.S.
dialysis segment to be reported as a part of our strategic initiatives.
Previous quarters of 2011 were recast to reflect this reporting as well.
We made this reporting change to provide more clarity in the economics of our core U.S.
dialysis business.
Operating cash flow for 2011 was unusually strong at $1.18 billion.
We are guiding 2012 operating cash flow to be lower with a range of $950 million to $1.05 billion.
This is because 2011 cash flow benefited from the favorability in the timing of a number of working capital items primarily related to the timing of cash tax payments due to the bonus tax depreciation.
As we look to the first quarter of 2012 operating income is likely to be down sequentially as operating costs will increase due to fewer treatment days over which the spreads fixed cost in the quarter seasonally higher payroll taxes and an increase in pharma cost due to reduced rebates in our new Amgen contract and some increased G&amp;A investments.
Looking at our guidance for the full year 2012 compared to our Q4 2011 run rate you should consider a number of factors.
Tailwinds include the Medicare market basket increase and a continued treatment volume growth coupled with the impact of integrating DSI.
These above factors will be offset by some headwinds including higher EPO unit costs and increased G&amp;A investments.
We expect G&amp;A per treatment to be about $2 higher in 2012 versus 2011 reflecting increased spending in various areas including IT international legal and compliance growth in DaVita Rx and some investments in VillageHealth.
In addition payor mix remains uncertain into 2012.
Operator let's go ahead and open up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Matt Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk a little bit more about the integrated care opportunity? And what do you think might be the fastest timeline along which that could progress? And what do you think you -- what capabilities do you think you'd need to build or partnerships you'd need to have I don't know with managed care or other to be successful there? Certainly.
We're a little bit schizophrenic on this issue on the one hand so excited we've been working on it a long time.
And on the other hand we have great trepidation in talking about it since you can never predict for sure what the government will decide to do and when.
And even if they come out with a request for proposal will it be a quality one that we can participate in? So with all those caveats we'll attempt to answer your question.
As to timing the soonest request for proposal might come out for comment would be in a couple of months.
We're not predicting that but that's answering the question.
As to how late it could happen it could be never but we think we've got a good shot.
As to capabilities we've been preparing for some time in part through our demonstration pilot which we did with Medicare with CMS sharing all the data to define rules along the way and so they've seen it in action.
They know that medical costs go down clinical quality goes up and patient satisfaction goes up as well as physician satisfaction as a matter of fact.
And they've seen some of the results from the work Fresenius has done our competitor in the same area.
And so in terms of capabilities we can pretty much do it on our own and while there will be some exceptions to that we think they'll be relatively modest.
Of course I have to qualify that by saying since we haven't seen the RFP yet well we can't be sure that that answer's correct.
Did I hear every part of your question? Research Division</strong> I think you did.
Just on the last answer there.
I gather you have the capability to do it with what's within your company in terms of maybe taking it to the optimal level with everything that's involved in population health management if you're responsible for that cohort.
Again do you think primarily you have that in-house you don't have to do significant investment to get there? Well 2 different things.
We have the capabilities in-house.
It will take investment to scale those activities if we get the kind of pilot that we're hoping for.
So big big distinction to make there.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And if I could just one more on the commercial mix.
Are you -- would you say that there is incrementally more pressure from the commercial payers on reimbursement? Is dialysis something that they seem to be more focusing on more heavily? And how are your negotiations if any proceeding along that front? Okay I'll tackle that one too.
Before I do as you refined your question I feel I should add one additional note to my answer which is in the beginning of scaling for a big integrated care undertaking it could be we would do some outsourcing as we build our scale so I was giving you a longer-term answer and recognize that you might have in part been asking about the scaling period.
And if we get the scale we are not sure which parts we'll be able to scale on our own versus temporary use of others.
But now on to your question.
On the private payer side it's super super intense which is the same way it was last year and the year before and the year before that.
It doesn't seem like that ever changes.
Research Division</strong> And so in terms of the rate of increase you're not really seeing differences in terms of outcomes with a greater I don't know whether we can even call it maybe it isn't a greater focus on cost containment it's the same focus on cost containment.
The dynamic is about the same.
Is that fair? I think the dynamic is about the same.
And what we've always said is every year we win some victories we suffer some defeats there are a bunch of ties and it's a little bit like one football season to the next.
It's real dangerous to extrapolate because you got tough opponents out there.
And so while we wouldnt posit any particular structural change in the world nor any sort of systematic change in intensity nonetheless you never want to get complacent and certainly we don't.
Your next question will come from the line of Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Kent going back to your prepared comments or maybe it was Luis.
I think you indicated the physicians have stated that Epogen use or the physician-prescribed drugs would be either flat to maybe slightly higher in 2012.
Just wondering what type of visibility or why that would -- why it would go up.
That remains dynamic.
We have rolled out various protocols and as we settle on the final one we think that flat to up is the most likely scenario at this point in conversations with physicians and the data we're seeing.
It's so difficult to predict because there's been such change in the science in the government guidance in the debates in the articles on the anemia management that you have a lot of doctors making some changes to their prescription pattern for any of those number of reasons and then waiting a month or 2 or 3 to see what the results are and see if they're content as they stare at their patient population and look at the percent that's between 10 and 12 sub-10 between 12 and 13 above 13.
And so what we do is the best we can in incorporating all their opinions into any amendments into the protocol so they essentially end up being the physicians on protocols and then helping facilitating supporting them as they stare at their results and the results of the broader population and continue to fine tune what they think is right for their patients.
So it's pretty dynamic but the general drift of what we hear from our doctors is exactly what Luis said.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then I guess just shifting back to the integrated care.
I think maybe a month ago we noticed that you guys opened up a primary care clinic in Tacoma Washington.
Just wondering what the strategic rationale is behind that.
Is that a revenue driver or a way for you guys to curb your own health care expenses? And then what's the expansion plans for other primary care clinics? The short answer is both.
We have about 1 000 citizens of what we call the DaVita village in the Tacoma area and there as is happening elsewhere in the country our medical costs continue to go up and up and up placing whatever burden on our people and on us and we're hoping this clinic can be a way to change that trend while simultaneously providing better service to our people and their families.
Having said that we think there could be a real business model there that we can provide to other employers of different sizes but way too soon to make any forecasts.
I would characterize it as very spirited new business R&amp;D right now.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just thinking about home hemodialysis.
Earlier this month UnitedHealthcare issued a medical policy for home hemo.
Just wondering if that's changed your opinion.
Or I guess what's your take on home hemodialysis at this point? I'm not familiar with the new United policies so perhaps you could fill me in there or certainly I'm sure 6 or 7 people will once the call is over.
But our posture on HHD home hemodialysis and we do more of it than anyone in the world at last look is unchanged which is there's -- what we always say is people who say that it's going to grow grow grow dramatically it should be right for lots and lots of patients.
We don't see yet the data to support that conclusion at all.
On the other hand those who say that it should apply to no patients our data doesn't support that either.
As to what percentage of patients it will be a superior form of care for is not clear yet.
And then in addition there's all the complexities and subtleties around government reimbursement what they allow what they don't what constitutes evidence to them et cetera.
And so the picture is pretty murky once you combine those 2.
We remain very very committed to the work we're doing in that area and our collaboration with the federal government to try to figure out what the right policies are based on high quality objective nonpartisan if you will analysis.
Research Division</strong> Well United's policy basically says that HHD is a proven therapy as an alternative to facility-based hemodialysis for patients who apply to -- for the criteria.
So basically I think they're basically saying the clinical data is good enough.
That is good and again there's an entire spectrum of opinions on this subject which is why we advise you to be careful about paying too much attention to people at either end of the distribution.
And clearly by the number of patients we have on it we think it's very very justified for some patients and better for them either in terms of quality or life convenience the ability to keep on working and the ability to integrate dialysis care more into their lives and their families' lives.
So we're clearly supportive but we wouldn't be doing everything we're doing.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just one last quick question for maybe LeAnne.
Just wondering if -- what's the latest on the doc fix? Is there anything such as the bad debt coverage that could impact you guys? Yes.
As a matter of fact the preliminary analysis or information is out.
We're reviewing that and it would appear that dialysis bad debt reimbursement will be part of the pay-for for the policy.
Research Division</strong> Do we know how much it will impact you guys? I mean your bad debt is only what 3% if that? You're speaking to the provision on the income statement? Yes 2.9%.
Yes that is a much -- that number encompasses more than the Medicare bad debt.
Your next question will come from the line of Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up on that last question LeAnne.
In terms of thinking about the bad debt provision in the doc fix deal.
So the way -- could you just maybe give us a refresher on the way it works now? So 20% of the composite rate is a co-pay? And is that the piece that's going to be affected by this potentially? Yes.
So it's a little complicated.
Let me see if I can be clear.
Right now we're able to claim Medicare bad debt in certain circumstances on what used to be the old composite rate so not on the drugs.
And yes that would be the 20% that would not be paid by a third -- or second party or third party.
And that calculation is further reviewed in a way that if the dialysis facility was profitable or lost money on a Medicare basis.
So couple of filters that you have to go through before you're determined to be eligible for the bad debt.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that composite rate is it around -- it's like $135 or somewhere in that range so is that the story number and the way to think about it? Yes.
I'd like to track it probably to $150.
I can't remember if -- of the  drug add-on was in there or not.
Maybe Jim Hillter [ph] or someone could help us out with the exact number but it's in that $135 to $150 range.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then what are the additional filters? So if we were to kind of just walk through the process to filter it down so if we were to try to estimate an impact what would some of those filters be? Yes the filter -- the primary filter is whether or not that facility lost money or made money on a Medicare basis.
And so if it's making money you're going to be limited as to what you could claim and you may not be able to claim any of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And so that's how it currently works? Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any estimate in terms of what percentage of your facilities wouldn't be able to claim anything since they're making money? I don't have that number handy for me.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- I guess just on the income statement.
The bad debt expense that you're currently reporting is that primarily -- is there a split? Is it 1/2 commercial 1/2 Medicare? Or how should we think about that? Again I don't have that data right in front of me.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess maybe on another topic Kent.
There's -- for the first time this year I guess there's the potential that a competing ESA might come to market and you all have signed a long-term contract with Amgen.
But how should we think about the I guess -- I would assume it's a potential benefit to you still if a potential drug -- competing drug comes to market.
How should we think about that? Yes very fair question.
And the answer is it's not clear in the short term whether it's in our best interest or not for something new to come out.
We signed a long-term agreement as you know.
We signed it with Amgen for EPO which is the gold standard for anemia management.
And we walked through kind of the strategic and logical filters for the decision we made and said that over the 7 years and on a net basis this could work to our advantage or our disadvantage.
But one thing that is very clear is that Amgen and our interests are aligned for the most part and so I can't give you a generic answer whether a new entrant coming out soon is good or bad for us without waiting to see what happens and at what price what pickup there is et cetera et cetera.
Your next question will come from the line of Justin Lake with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll just take a quick shot at this bad debt first.
Can you just give us the number in terms of LeAnne that 100% goes to the 65% I believe? How much does that impact you by? Maybe just tell us how much you collect right now in Medicare bad debt.
LeAnne do you know the number? And for the folks out there I just want to apologize.
LeAnne's actually in a different city and so there might be some awkward handoffs back and forth.
But LeAnne do you know the number? I can give an estimate and that estimate would impact us about $4 million in the first year.
And it does -- it phases from 100% of recovery to 65% of recovery over the 3-year period.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if it goes at 32% early on that might be $12 million to maybe with some growth $15 million by year 3? That would be reasonable estimate.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Second question Kent on the integrated care you talked about specific serious conversations.
Just wanted to focus on a couple of issues there.
In terms of if -- could you help us -- it sounds like you're as close as you've ever been clearly an exciting concept.
Can you tell us would -- what you think maybe the 2 or 3 kind of key issues that are keeping CMS from having published this or that you're working on with them? What's keeping this from having come out now that theyre past the 8 pioneer ACOs.
Certainly.
Before I do that LeAnne did take her best cut in the spirit of trying to be responsive on the bad debt estimate and so what you got was our absolute best estimate.
I just want to emphasize that.
It -- the thing came out so recently my understanding is just today or yesterday or something and so we're still processing away and if those -- if the estimate that LeAnne gave in good faith turns out to be materially wrong we'll get back to you as soon we can.
But it is our first cut at it.
Then second on what's keeping them from coming out with it it really is that they were so consumed by all the pioneer ACO work and related hospital stuff.
And then they turn to all the rest and they've got to finish comparing and deciding on which subset of all the rest they're actually going to take action on and so that takes some time.
We do have it on assurance from many many people that we're among the finalists.
But whether or not that means we make it into the next round which would be imminent or whether we don't make it into the first round and have to wait for the second round or some other subsequent round we just can't handicap.
But it really is just them managing their workflow.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So do you expect in the next several months there'll be another announcement with these kind of integrated care like you said kind of vertical ACOs in different disease states and the question is not really in your mind around whether it's going to happen or not more so are you going to be a part of it and you think will? That's too definitive.
They may opt to do no verticals.
That is still potentially the case.
And remember even if they issue out RFPs in the vertical they may be so unattractive that no one does them.
So while the odds are they're going to come out with some other types of ACOs beyond the hospital it's unfortunately not 100%.
So were excited because we're in the red zone but that's a long way from starting.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just 2 more questions on this.
In terms of the timing between a release and when you think this would actually go into place if you can help us there.
And if it came in the next few months could it start by 2013? And maybe how many patients you think it would start with.
So all fair questions and I'll throw out guesses as long as everyone appreciates that's what they are but we're striving to be useful.
If it comes out in the next few months which would be the best case and if it's a proposal that actually can work where we can add the value for society and share in it there is a chance it could be implemented in January 1 '13.
There's also a good chance that they would do a later date halfway through '13 or the beginning of '14.
In our favor is the fact that we've been working so closely with them and our industry works collaboratively in a very different way than many others.
And so our ability to dance with them to get something done where they feel they're going to get the right level of reporting the right level of transparency the right amount of accountability the right amount of systems integration our ability to deliver that is really superior to most other health care segments.
All of that says maybe it could happen January 1 2013 and then you know all the reasons why it might not.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And number of patients? Number of patients that's anybody's guess Justin.
I'm sorry that one even I can't go venture in guessing on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the biggest I think push back I get when talking to people about this Kent is that in terms of just the timing right? If this starts in '13 by the time it becomes material it's fairly far out in the future.
And so I think the key in terms of kind of investor interest will probably be the level of transparency there is to further growth in the RFP meaning this is not just going to be x number of patients and we'll take another look at for 3 to 5 years and come back.
Do you expect that there's going to -- it's going to be fairly explicit in the contract that regardless of how many patients you start with if the industry hits x outcomes data and y savings targets then it will be very explicit that this will scale to something more meaningful without having to go back and request it it will be kind of explicit in the contract? It's the right question I cannot handicap the answer.
I do think that if we get something good we and Fresenius and others will do such good stuff with it that independent of what is contractually or regulatory stipulated we're going to have a heck of a good story to tell.
And even though penetration can take a while if it's penetration of a relatively proven capability valuing it becomes simpler.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one last question on mix.
Can you tell us where you are now in terms of percentage of patients in commercial how much that changed sequentially? Is it getting worse or better? And for 2012 can you walk me through -- the economy seems to be getting a little better from a jobs perspective and then you have COBRA kind of expiring for some people and maybe talk to us about what you're expecting for '12 and that will be it for me.
Sure Justin.
This is Luis.
Where we are at the end of Q4 is that we are at 10% commercial mix.
On a sequential basis in Q3 to Q4 we saw a similar rate of decline.
And on your third question it is one of our swing factors.
It's highly uncertain where that's going to shake out so it's difficult to predict.
Research Division</strong> Do you expect it to go down in 2012 to continue moderating or...
Our guidance includes several scenarios.
It's difficult to predict.
And so it is something that we have factored into our overall guidance.
Just one clarification Justin which may help you think about it we are rounding down to 10% as of Q4 to be clear on that point.
Your next question will come from the line of Ben Andrew who's a sales research analyst (sic) [William Blair].
Research Division</strong> Ben Andrew with William Blair.
I don't know if I changed affiliations but I wanted to ask Kent briefly about your thoughts on the risk profile of the integrated care model.
Obviously the demonstration work you've already done has given you some pretty good visibility that youve communicated.
But how would you hope to treat outlier patients? And are there other parameters of an RFP that would make it more attractive or less attractive to you you could walk us through please? Well the larger the scale that they allow the more open we can be on accepting versus not accepting outlier risk.
And calibrating regulating and administering outlier risk is actually something that CMS has to do a fair amount of including in the bundle under which we now operate.
And so that will be a highly analytical exercise between us and Medicare if it happens.
And so we're not at all worried about it as long as we bring the right attention to it and they share the numbers.
It should be a case where both sides can win and they want to give us enough scale so that the outlier pool is smaller and they capture more of our potential value.
And we work collaboratively with them and so they see the upside for them.
But it's pretty impossible to predict ahead of time until you're doing that final serious number crunching.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe talk about any other aspects of the RFP beyond that one that would be important to you as an organization to wanting to accept or to bid for an RFP.
I would say the most important one is our ability to work with all Medicare patients in a clinic.
Whats very very difficult in terms of achieving the kind of systemic dramatic change that we're contemplating here is when a subset of the patients in a given center are involved.
Because without the upside you cannot afford to add all the additional integrative services.
And without that investment you can't generate the results.
And it's much much more expensive if you're dealing with small pockets of fragmented patients who stretch across an entire country as opposed to much more concentrated patient populations within a given geography.
That's one of the primary fulcrums.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as you think about again scale getting at this are the sizes of the demonstration projects that you undertook would those be compelling enough to again to want to participate? Or is that just wouldn't be enough to compel you? Could you say the question again please Ben? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Given the size of the demonstration programs that you did and the cost savings that you appear to have seen and more importantly the improvements in patient outcome satisfaction and physician outcome are those scale of projects sufficient for you as an organization at this point to want to participate if they try to severely limit the scale? Would it still be compelling just to again collect more to get more experience and then hope that they would expand it over time? Well I guess the answer -- Let me grope for a moment.
If we got to do -- our existing demonstration project is in one geographic area.
And if they allowed us to do that same thing in 20 geographic areas we would absolutely do it.
So there is enough local scale where if we've got to do multiple local things of that size and spread the fixed overhead above it that would be attractive.
Is that -- am I answering the right question? Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
I know you're not going to give a number.
I'm just trying to get a flavor for kind of where your interests are there.
And then as you think about the skill sets that DaVita has today and you talked about a transition period perhaps into a fully-integrated model over time what would be the most critical aspects for you to outsource or to add on kind of a transitional basis if gave you the go ahead say for Jan 1 2013? Well I'm not prepared to answer that so I will try and you'll have to recognize that my answer could be pretty feeble.
But if they were going to give us the opportunity to take care of a lot of patients we'd probably have some call center issues.
We might have some technology and technology development issues just in terms of interconnectedness.
Those are the 2 areas where we might have to outsource on a transitional basis.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt Weight [ph] who's a private analyst.
One -- couple of questions here going back to the EPO supply contract with Amgen.
If you looked out in potentially 2 to 3 years there was price compression from competing ESA drugs.
Would the contract at all allow you to benefit from that? Matt we can't for all sorts of obvious reasons disclose precise contract terms.
And so maybe let me stumble my way through sort of the filters we went through in thinking about this contract and we do feel very good about the new partnership we have with Amgen and that's an important context within which to think about this.
But you have to assess the probability that a new drug comes out in the market.
Then you have to predict what price it will be at how different from Amgen's price.
Then you have to predict what percent of physicians will actually take the risk of moving off the gold standard given the price.
Then you have to take into account the pace at which they will do that.
Then you have to take into account the price those providers have to pay for EPO on the patients and with the physicians for whom they still have to use EPO because not all their affiliated doctors are going to want to switch to a new and unproven drug.
Then you have to take into account the fact that if a new drug successfully clears all those filters and how long it takes you finally must incorporate the fact that at that point it is strongly in Amgen's long-term best interest to come back and work with us rather than become too noncompetitive because this is a very significant net present value drug for them no matter what because it's so important and so proven.
So if you kind run through that gauntlet then you can kind of answer your own question about what dynamics might exist 3 or 4 years downstream without me talking about exactly what the paragraphs of the contracts say.
Is that helpful? Yes it is.
I appreciate that.
That's helpful.
Two other quick questions here.
Did you guys looking back in 2011 here notice -- was there any noticeable increase in blood transfusions relative to what you've experienced in the past? First of all we don't have a good transfusion data no dialysis provider does because we don't get to capture it.
Almost all of that stuff happens outside our centers and as much as we would love to get all that data no one has an obligation to share it with us.
So we look forward to working collaboratively with CMS with Medicare in order to see if that's happening and if so to address it.
As you know doctors have this tough task in a world of very fluid science and very fluid clinical consensus on anemia management of on the one hand managing the risk on the downside which means people get anemic and need a transfusion against the risk on the high side of having too high a hematocrit or hemoglobin and the potential for harm in that area.
And so they have to balance those 2 and the exact science an exact formula is exact reality exact analysis to drive a formulaic answer to that that you can apply to each patient doesn't exist.
And so you have thousands of docs out there using their best judgment to balance those 2 things.
It's a long way of saying but hopefully a helpful way of saying that we don't have the data.
We'll work with Medicare to evaluate the data and then we'll work with docs so that they can strike that balance.
Okay.
And then last question just switching back to integrated care.
Can you talk -- how do you see VillageHealth and DaVita Rx fitting in there? And what kind of potential synergies would you expect? So the question was how will DaVita Rx fit into integrated care? Right.
Well VillageHealth is for those of you who don't know the name of our integrated care group team effort initiative however you want to label it.
And so it was founded based on the belief that one day we'd be able to do truly integrated care.
And in fact it's the vehicle through which we've done the demonstrations and other analysis to show that it is the right path for American ESRD.
So for VillageHealth it is hand-in-glove if they give us the right architecture.
And then DaVita Rx is a powerhouse capability that fits within it because once you're managing that total patient you want to do integrated medication management.
And that's what DaVita Rx does right now for our VillageHealth patients and would for any patients that came in under a pilot.
Your next question will come from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A few questions here.
Could you just talk a little bit about your international growth plan? Obviously you guys have chosen the route of de novo startups but I've been a little bit surprised that you have done a number of things across a number of different countries all at the same time rather than focusing on a couple of geographies.
Can you just tell us your thought process around that expansion? Very fair question.
What has been safer to just go into 1 or 2 spots and focus and do that for a few years stub our toes inevitably since we haven't done this stuff overseas before so that would've been safer.
We decided we would rather put incremental capital and talent at risk or in play in order to be more aggressive recognizing we probably will make more mistakes but in the end hopefully put ourselves in a position where it's relevant sooner.
In addition in some parts of the world we're worried that if we just sat out for the next 6 years in order to be conservative that we would have significantly impaired our ability to become a leader or a co-leader and so the extra cost and risk of doing more sooner has to be compared to the additional benefit if we pull it off.
Research Division</strong> I mean I guess given that thought process and the willingness to deploy some additional capital I mean would you expect that 2012 might be a little bit faster deployment than what you kind of would've thought when you first announced this initiative? Or do you still feel like that kind of annual spend is the right spend? Well first of all right now things are so uncertain and there's so many swing factors.
Since we're so tiny in a number of these countries that is very difficult to forecast.
We talked about this year we'd be in the neighborhood of a $20 million loss and we were at about $22 million.
Right now if we had to estimate we'd say that we'll lose in the high 20s in this next year.
Now that's actually a disappointment because we wanted to be at the same level of loss.
And for us that kind of percentage difference in what looks like it's going to happen versus what we expected is really embarrassing and unacceptable but that's where we are and it gives you some flavor for right now the variability in our performance and accomplishments since we learned our way into the international world.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess what is the delta to that? Is that because you're doing more revenue and therefore more losses? Are you saying that actually the actual performance at -- the revenue has been in line it's just the performance on that revenue has been disappointing? Yes I think that's a level of detail I won't go to since the forecast is still so lively for such a small chunk of the business.
I think that level of detail just wouldn't be very educational for you.
But it's the net number so it takes into account the overhead spending and the actual operating revenue and expenses.
And to start parsing through it when it's so tiny I think could be really misleading precision.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned that the VA rates were a headwind here I guess in the quarter.
Are we now done with that? I mean I guess obviously VA kind of just come back and open things up again.
But to your knowledge are we done with that for the near term? Or is it more to come? Appreciate the question.
And first I was just advised that I gave you some wrong information that our international losses in 2011 were $20 million not $22 million which then makes the difference between the high 20s in '12 versus our actual in 2011 even worse.
And now that I gave you that correction your question was what? Research Division</strong> It was the VA and I guess you mentioned that was a little bit of a headwind.
I've got it.
I've got the question.
Now this was "What is the answer?".
It's hard to know what they might do when and how we might respond.
So there's nothing dramatic happening right now.
But I wouldn't want to say to you we think it's going to be stable all year because we just don't know.
And on the one hand we take care of a lot of vets and they don't want that to change.
They on the other hand have a lot of power.
So how it plays out I just think giving a micro-prediction would not be helpful because it would presume a level of insight on our part that we don't have.
Suffice it to say that we are investing a bunch and trying to develop a stable high value-added relationship with them where both sides feel that we're at a reasonable equilibrium.
Maybe we are there now maybe not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I guess everyone's focused on budget deficits and when the next debt ceiling is going to be hit and what might be a result.
I mean how do you think about your ability to offset rate cuts going forward? I mean have you -- do you feel like your business is kind of fully adjusted to the bundled rate? Or are there more opportunity over time to become more efficient that might allow you to help mitigate what seems like inevitable rate cuts to most sectors going forward? I'd say 3 things.
Number one from an expense point of view I think we're more or less in a post-bundle equilibrium.
Number two having said that we strive for productivity improvements every single year.
We always try to select some parts of our cost structure to focus on and see if we can innovate our way to savings.
So when i say equilibrium you need to evaluate the use of that word in that perspective.
And then -- well maybe I would just leave it at those 2 comments.
Did I miss a part of your question? Research Division</strong> No I think that covers it.
Your next question will come from the line of Gary Taylor with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I'm sorry I must have missed right at the very beginning.
I assume Luis kind of went through the change in revenue per treatment sequentially and obviously the VA was part of that.
Did you say the VA was the biggest part of that sequential decline? Gary let me repeat those phrases for you.
The 4 factors that we cited were first decline in commercial mix.
The second one was at new lower VA rates.
Those rates came into effect on 10/1 of 2011 and so we had the full impact in Q4 versus just 1 month in Q3.
The third factor was a decline in physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals i.e.
utilization.
And finally we had a quarter-over-quarter decrease in the amount of revenue related to vaccinations.
So those are the main factors that reflect all our drop from Q3 to Q4.
Research Division</strong> And then the impact of pharma on the top line under bundling is what? Which pharma would be driving that? It will be the unbundled contracts.
Research Division</strong> On the commercial side? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And anything on just commercial bundled contracts in general? Any -- I know your competitors talked the last couple of quarters about some that has kind of weighed on sequential results moving unbundled commercial contracts into bundling.
You guys haven't talked a lot about that.
That doesn't sound like it was a material factor.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on Kent just on your comment about the investigation.
You were referring to Colorado correct? Yes sir.
Research Division</strong> Okay just want to make sure.
And then on integrated care I guess I have 2 questions.
One you would agree that the savings opportunity is on the incremental $50 000 or so of spend primarily right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And is there I guess when we look at -- we only have the benefit as far as I know of seeing publicly the first 3 years of those demonstration projects and we didn't see kind of what the savings amounted to in years 4 and 5.
And I know for example in the Fresenius data they saved more in year 2 than year 1.
They saved more in year 3 to year 2.
I think they've implied to the markets they saved even more in years 4 and 5.
So the question is if this was rolled out is there still the effect that the amount of intervention and integration you're doing means that the savings grow cumulatively? Or is it that you're learning through the 5 years of that demonstration and the savings upfront could be more impactful than were able to be demonstrated through the demonstration project? Very fair question.
Statement A we have gotten better every year and that continues.
Answer B actually in my mind our way of learning has been disappointing and we can get a lot better than we are.
And so unfortunately answer C is the impact both because of the challenges of scaling and because we've not done as well as we should have in terms of being more creative more aggressive more innovative that we've still got a lot more learning than I wish we had enough to see great results exacting results and be optimistic.
But when you think about scaling it and executing we don't give ourselves impressive grades for how well we've done in the last few years.
Research Division</strong> Do you have an estimate on that $50 000 what a reasonable savings percentage might be? Or do you not want to go there yet? I don't think it's a good idea to talk about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Very last question.
Luis on the tax rate for '12 is that primarily state local income tax effect that's bumping that up a little bit? Yes it's 2 factors.
It is partially state.
It also has to relate with the international losses deductibility of those.
We can't do this in the current year and so that puts up pressure on yields in the overall ETR.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry I lied.
I have one more quick question.
You talked about kind of the pharmaceutical run rate having stabilized.
Any additional thoughts to subcu? We've seen some data suggesting some of the small providers have moved a little bit more towards subcu dosing on EPO.
Where are you -- where's DaVita at in terms of considering the possibility of that? I don't know of any significant movement among our physicians to use subcu nor has there been any discussion that I've been a part of.
So I don't have an answer other than probably there's nothing going on because none of our doctors are talking about it.
If some of our doctors start to talk about that and move in that direction we would certainly report back to folks.
But I just haven't seen or heard of anything like it and so that's where we stand.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn this call back over to the panel for closing remarks.
I'll just pick up on one issue that came up which was Medicare rate cuts.
That while it is true that we have a lot of Medicare patients and it's rational to expect that Congress may do something with Medicare rates it is also true that we are about the most discreet health care service there is with 85% to 95% of our centers freestanding.
They only do one thing and all the expenses are submitted in a cost report to the government every year.
We personally have about 150 centers that currently lose money as it is.
And so in our segment if the government will get inappropriately aggressive and cut rates they could be faced with some serious center closures in centers that didn't have enough private patients to sustain the subsidy on the Medicare side.
And so while all Medicare providers have to be worried about rate cuts we in some ways have arguments of clarity of data and consequences of a mistake that other segments do not have.
With that final comment I want to thank everyone for paying attention to our company and we will do our best for you in the next 3 months until we talk again.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's DaVita Q4 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lorelle and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the DaVita Q1 2012 Investors Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Jim Gustafson you may begin your conference.
Thank you Lorelle and welcome everyone to our First Quarter Conference Call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations and with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Jim Hilger our interim CFO; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Jim.
Before I get going I'd just point out I may be a bit more brief than usual.
I'm under the weather so that may be good news for some.
The first quarter was solid.
It was solid clinically it was solid operationally it was solid financially.
I'll cover 2 topics: clinical outcomes and our outlook both specifically and more broadly.
On the clinical side we will continue to present our clinical outcomes first because that is what comes first.
We are a caregiver company now serving approximately 145 000 human beings each week.
First with respect to adequacy which as many of you know is essentially how well we are doing at removing toxins from our patients' blood this past quarter 97% of our hemodialysis patients had a Kt/V greater than 1.2.
Second with respect to vascular access 69% of our patients have fistulas the preferred form of vascular access.
Third with respect to phosphorus 80% of our patients had phosphorus levels less than or equal to 5.5 milligrams per deciliter.
For these and virtually all other clinical measures our patient outcomes compare very favorably to national averages.
This quality clinical care not only results in healthier patients but also drives reductions in hospitalizations and surgical procedures and therefore significant savings to the U.S.
health care system.
Next our outlook.
As many of you have heard we're increasing our operating income guidance to a range of $1.23 billion at the bottom end to $1.31 billion at the top.
And this range captures a majority of the probabilistic outcomes based on the swing factors that you're relatively familiar with and which you may ask questions about later in the call.
We periodically but regularly get asked "Gee your industry is awfully consolidated.
What does that imply for growth in the core business?" The fact is there's a reassuring answer even if one makes the entirely rational assumption that there can't be any more medium acquisitions by us or Fresenius because of the consolidation.
So that's a very a fair starting point.
You still should consider the following: a basic demand meaning increase in the number of treatments each year because of the increase in patients 3.5% to 4%; de novos and other same-store growth an additional 0.5% to 1.5%; acquisitions an additional 1 or 2 points above that; and then financial leverage which could come in the form of taking on additional debt and/or buying back stock.
Put all that together and you end up in the 6% to 9.5% range of EPS growth without assuming any operating leverage which we think over time is likely to happen and particularly will happen at the point that we become pessimistic about other sources of growth.
At this point we've been feeling quite good and achieving quite a bit of growth in other spheres.
And so it's been more appropriate to not achieve significant operating leverage in the fixed cost line because we've been able to invest in superior alternative sources of growth.
We hope that continues whether it be internationally through integrated care with the potential to do other U.S.
health care verticals.
Thank you.
I'll now turn the call over to our interim CFO Jim Hilger who as most of you know has been with us as Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for almost a decade.
Thanks Kent.
We experienced strong operating income and cash flow in the quarter.
These were driven by strong treatment growth and improved revenue per treatment.
Here are some specifics on the quarter.
Non-acquired growth was 5.3% when normalized for days of the week.
The quarter did benefit slightly from milder-than-normal weather.
Revenue per treatment was up about $4.
The primary driver was the 2.1% annual market basket increase for Medicare rates.
Our commercial mix was down slightly from the fourth quarter but has been flat for 4 consecutive months.
Dialysis patient care cost per treatment was up about $3.50 from the prior quarter.
This was due to increased compensation expense including seasonally higher payroll taxes and increased unit cost for Epogen due to lower rebates in our new contract with Amgen.
Note that our EPO utilization was flat with the prior quarter and based on conversations with physicians we expect utilization to be at slightly higher levels going forward.
Our dialysis G&amp;A per treatment was up about $2 from the prior quarter.
This was primarily due to professional fees including legal and compliance spending IT projects and spending on long-term growth initiatives.
International losses were $7 million in the quarter flat when compared to the prior quarter and losses in our other strategic initiatives were $11 million which was $6 million more than the prior quarter.
The main drivers for this increase were the timing of research projects at DaVita clinical research increased investment in our direct primary care business and seasonally lower DaVita Rx profits.
Looking ahead to the second quarter it's likely that operating income will be flat to down sequentially.
In particular we anticipate pressure on dialysis patient care costs in a number of items including increased pharma expense increased wage and benefit costs and increased travel costs due to our annual leadership meeting.
Now turning to cash flow.
Our operating cash flow was $332 million in the first quarter.
We expect second quarter operating cash flow will be lower due to the timing of cash taxes and our semiannual bond interest payments.
We still anticipate full year 2012 operating cash flow will be in the range of $950 million to $1.05 billion.
And finally I want to point out that in order to comply with new accounting rules in the first quarter we made a change to our presentation for bad debts relating to patient service revenues.
Previously we had reserved 3% of dialysis revenues for uncollectible accounts as an operating expense.
We now are reflecting the 3% provision for bad debt as an offset in revenue.
We have recast our prior quarters to reflect this new accounting presentation and this change has no impact on our reported operating income.
With that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Ben Andrew with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start by talking about integrated care briefly.
There was a recent National Renal Administrators Association meeting where we had the chance to talk to some of the people from Medicare and it sounds like they remain firmly committed to moving forward with the program.
Has there been any progress in your perspective Kent with regards to the timing of the project or the potential scale? Those are still unfortunately big question marks.
And if we were to throw out an answer it would count more as speculation and guessing which is just not really I think that useful for you.
LeAnne would you like to amend those words? No Kent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And thinking through sort of the growth dynamics in the quarter it sounds like most of the pieces were basically right on track with your targets.
If you think about some of the moving pieces over the course of the year where do you see perhaps making some larger investments Kent? Would it be international? Is that a primary target? Or domestic clinics? Or is it sort of all of the above and to be seen and stay tuned? Yes.
Unfortunately I think in terms of a satisfactory answer it's more the latter.
We continue to look at other segments of American health care where we think we can be on the right side of reform and driving some superior value propositions to patients and the taxpayer.
But you never know when you're going to find something that strikes your capitalistic fancy in those areas as well as fitting other strategic criteria.
Internationally we're going to continue to grow but it's not going to move the dial for you guys for quite some time although we're excited.
So I think it's same old same old until we find the right thing to move aggressively on and who knows when that might come.
I would go back for one second because on the ICM question the integrated care question you asked a moment ago despite the fact that we unfortunately have no basis for predicting I just want to reiterate how bullish we are on the striking value proposition we think we can bring to patients and families on the quality side and to society on the reduced cost side.
So we are exceptionally bullish about that in the long term.
We just don't know when the starting point is.
Research Division</strong> And I guess 2 quick follow-ups on that Kent.
Any idea when we might see more data from the demos? And then a quick question for Jim you talked about commercial mix being down after 4 flat quarters.
Can you give us a little bit more detail there? On the data on the demos let's take that under consideration and see whether or not we should talk some more in the future about that.
We've typically been relatively sparse in our comments.
And given we are collaborating with CMS there are some restrictions on what we can share because the data is not just ours and often they would prefer to keep certain things quiet.
In addition we continue to get better every single quarter so we always kind of want to wait another quarter or 2.
But let us think about whether or not we should do more in the next call.
That's a fair point.
I'll turn it over to Jim.
Ben your question on our commercial mix.
So where that -- our commercial mix was down quarter-on-quarter.
But the last 4 months our commercial mix has been flat.
And your next question comes from the line of Matt Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Could you just tell me about the -- your outlook on Medicare reimbursement as we go into next year? What type of calibration do you think we might expect beyond obviously the budget sequestration that's already on the horizon? Well let me turn that over to LeAnne who's in a different location.
So excuse any awkward telephonic hand-offs.
And then she may want to turn it back to somebody here but LeAnne is the best place to start.
Sure.
2 additional points beyond sequestration.
One we are as you know now scheduled to have an annual inflation adjustment to the bundled payment rate.
And so we would continue to expect that to be probably in the 1.5% to 2% range depending on the input factors.
And then number 2 I think there is concern about the deficit coming up in that many domestic programs including health care could be at risk.
So no prediction there but certainly something that we're working on and should be cautious about.
Research Division</strong> And just a point that you guys have made in the past which is that there are significant components of the industry the dialysis operators who at the reimbursement today operate at pretty thin margins implying there could be the risk of centers closing if reimbursement were squeezed.
Is that -- can you give us any granularity on that? And is -- any information about how that may have changed over the last year or 2? Yes.
The best source of information is really -- or what people in D.C.
look at is really how MedPAC analyzes margins of the various health care sectors.
And you would see from their latest report that dialysis is operating at about a 2% margin and that's before sequestration compared to many of the other sectors who have higher margins.
So I would direct you that that's the best place for you to look for information that members of Congress might be looking at.
I would amend that answer in a couple of ways.
First there are a lot of centers that operate in a relatively precarious way because of the overall economics.
And members of Congress and CMS are sensitive to that.
And so even if you look at their number the 2% and assume any kind of normal distribution of outcomes that substantiates that assertion.
Second their 2% margin is an incorrect calculation.
Parts of it we think they actually know are incorrect.
They don't want to come out and admit that we actually all of us lose money on average in Medicare across the country as you look over time.
And we now carry a whole lot of centers where we lose money that are non de novos which is part of being a good citizen given we have healthy margins in other centers.
And so what we've referred to is somewhat of a reimbursement safety net as long as we can operate more efficiently than small mom-and-pops as in fact still exist.
It's just difficult to quantify.
Research Division</strong> And can you point to what the main source of variation is between the MedPAC number and the way you think that should be calculated more accurately? There's a whole bunch of differences.
It really cuts across significant parts of the cost structure.
But I'll just give one example.
They put an arbitrary cap in the percentage of Medical Director compensation that applies to their calculation which makes no sense given 90% of the patients and more than 90% of the Medical Director's work is tied to Medicare and Medicaid patients.
And your next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Quick clarification question first.
I just wanted to clarify that the normalized non-acquired treatment growth is adjusted for leap year as well.
Is that correct? Well our NAG is not calculated based on the number of days in the quarter.
It's on a per day basis within the quarter.
So essentially yes that is taken into account.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
I just wanted to make sure.
Okay and then you said that you didn't see EPO rise in Q1 but you think there's going to be increasing going forward slightly.
Why wouldn't that have increased in Q1 if it is going to be going up through the year? I guess what it shows is that all we can do is listen to the consensus statements of our physician community.
And sometimes they end up being wrong in predicting their own behavior probably because in many instances they're answering our questions based on their prediction of what's going to be happening in their patient population over the subsequent couple of months based on what they did the last couple of weeks.
So if they're wrong in predicting exactly what the trends are in their near-term hemoglobin and hematocrit outcomes then they may very well be wrong in telling us what they expect to see in changed dosages.
So that's the most rational hypothesis for why we would've been a little off before but nonetheless coming back with a similar prediction.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then I know that nothing's really been finalized yet.
But at this point how do you think the integrated care demo is going to work? I guess the original ones that you guys did a few years ago were more like a capitative product.
But is this going to be similar to a capitative product? Or do you think it'll be more similar to the ACO regs where your patients still have like a fee-for-service open network type access to other providers? What I would say and LeAnne would probably have more fact-based insight that are -- my hope is that we're far along the spectrum towards global capitation because that provides us with the greatest degree of operating flexibility and strategic flexibility and we can really make some magic happen.
If however they opt for the more incremental shared savings the ACO-type approach we ought to be able to put a lot of exciting improvements on the table as well and then use that as the fodder for moving further along the spectrum.
In either case however it's very important for us to emphasize that we think we can offer a virtually 100% open network so that in our particular space given how often we see the patient in an outpatient setting some of the historical trade-offs around needing to start to close the network in order to achieve significant improvements don't exist.
And so one of the reasons we should be one of the first scale pilots and new initiatives that they implement is because we offer this wonderful triangle of demonstrable and transparent clinical outcomes saving money while retaining open networks.
And your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I do have a question about G&amp;A costs per treatment.
Jim I know you gave us I guess a few things that impacted that in the quarter.
I guess just stepping back would be curious to get some additional commentary on your view on G&amp;A costs per treatment.
We I guess had been tracking it the first half of '11 at around $27 or $28 a treatment.
And it's recently moved into the $30 to call it $32 a treatment range and it adds up on 20 million-plus treatments a year.
So I guess the question is what are you investing in there and can you help us just think about it a little bit more for the remainder of '12 and going forward? Darren great question.
We do believe that our G&amp;A spend will be flat for the balance of the year.
And into '13 we would see G&amp;A spend being flat to slightly up.
We're hoping to get some leverage with it but if we had to predict right now that's what we would predict.
Darren let me add there one of the things that's hurting us there is the increased spend on compliance and legal with the private litigation in some of the investigations.
And so someday those are going to go away and there'll be some nice pickup there.
Research Division</strong> And if you could just help us think about beyond compliance and legal which may be there for many quarters to come but is there any transient type of cost DSI integration anything that you could say about integrated care investment whether that shows up there or not? Anything to help us really put it further into context because it is a fairly significant investment in G&amp;A from how we're looking at it? Well as we said we have a number of IT projects that we're currently investing in and we've also been investing spending on a lot of a long-term growth initiatives to hopefully drive future returns.
So we have been spending a fair amount on the integration of DSI and we will continue to spend money on the integration of additional future acquisitions.
Darren we're not trying to be difficult on this.
But the fact is IT integrated care legal compliance DSI growth they're all kind of evenly weighted.
It would suggest a level of analytical precision that's not reflected in my comments.
But you got 4 or 5 different chunks which add up to the hefty couple of bucks that has you appropriately uncomfortable.
Research Division</strong> No I'm just trying to make sense of $40 million or $50 million of additional G&amp;A in the dialysis segment that's all.
My other question really is just more specific to the ancillary segment where I think you've moved some of the international investment.
And if I heard you correctly Jim some of the loss there was related to the CRO business and the investment you're making in the primary care business.
But can you just talk more specifically about international and how that investment shows up in the segment results there? Well Darren our results for the quarter had a $7 million loss in international and that was consistent with the prior quarter.
We expect that type of investment to continue for the balance of the year.
And we do -- Darren we do account for that outside of the dialysis segment its own operating segment.
So because it's not large enough to separately really support we -- it is reported in our All Other segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay last question here.
Just optimal leverage.
Jim stepping into the CFO role are you or the team thinking any differently about what I think you've really characterized as your longer-term target leverage in the 3 to 3.5 range.
Is that still the case? And are we under-levered at this point at 2.5? We have not changed our long-term view of the appropriate levels of leverage for the company in that 3% to 3.5% range -- or 3x to 3.5x range.
You're correct we are well below that range at the moment.
But we're comfortable being below or being above for certain periods of time over the long term.
But over the long term we do expect to be within the 3% to 3.5% -- or 3x to 3.5x range.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A number of post-acute providers have talked about their expectation that the Medicare rule-making will just be final notices without receiving a proposed rule.
Is that your expectation for dialysis or are you guys expecting to see the proposed rule also? LeAnne you're best to handle that.
Yes.
We have no indication of any change.
So we do expect to see a proposed rule that we'll be able to react to.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then for the first time there's an alternative ESA available for dialysis patients.
Are you guys at all second-guessing the decision that you made to go into the long-term agreement with Amgen or what are your thoughts there? Boy if we were I don't know if we'd ever admit it.
But with whatever credibility I offer up the answer that we're not.
Our decision did include a likely scenario that there would be a competitive product and some things have happened more quickly than anticipated.
But if you recall before they came out with their recent developments we kind of ran through the gauntlet of the 5 or 6 filters that will ultimately determine whether or not we picked the right partner or not.
And our partner always has the right to respond to any fundamental competitive steps taken by the other side.
So I could recast the filter perhaps.
But we have not second-guessed it.
What's happening now is not outside the range of scenarios that we contemplated.
But once again if it were not true I don't know if we would admit it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I mean and just in terms of the filters can you provide any more detail in terms of what some of the thought process was there? Yes I'll do it spontaneously and then somebody can amend the mistakes I make.
But filter 1 is will another product come out quality product.
Filter 2 is when will that be.
Filter 3 is how will physicians respond when they're comparing it to the gold standard of long-standing duration.
Fourth is how will they price it.
Fifth is for providers how much of their purchase will they change given what it might do to the pricing of the product they still buy from Amgen the gold standard.
And number 6 is what is the early data once you start using something more comprehensively in the real world not in the artificial world.
And then 7 if a competitive product successfully clears all those hurdles with seriously differential math [ph] what will our partner do to ensure that we don't want to go scurrying off big-time in the other direction when the contract runs out.
That's a reasonable approximation of the filters.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on that last one that's very helpful.
In terms of what Amgen might do I assume you're referring to any changes in price that they might have? Yes.
There is a lot of levers to pull in a partnership like ours.
That's certainly one of them but not the only one.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then maybe my last question it looks like the percent of patients with fistulas placed has remained fairly constant on a year-over-year basis.
Should we think of that as sort of being the plateau of where it's going to go or do you think you can still drive that percentage meaningfully higher? Number one the percentage will go higher.
I don't know how to calibrate "meaningfully higher " so I'll stay away from that.
Number two a more important number has been moving down even while that number has plateaued which is our catheter rate has gone down.
The fistulas have gotten a lot more press because of CMS's emphasis on them.
But more leveraged than increasing the fistula rate by 1% is reducing the catheter rate by 1% because when you take someone else -- when you take someone off a catheter they can go the fistula route or they can go the graft route.
And while in many instances for many patients a fistula is superior to a graft the graft is way superior to a catheter.
So our catheter rates continue to hit all-time lows every single quarter in the last 4 quarters during a period where the fistula rate has somewhat plateaued.
And reducing catheter rates has an incredibly powerful correlation -- it really goes beyond correlation cause and effect to reduced infection rate reduced mortality improved effectness -- and improved effectiveness of dialysis.
And if I didn't already say it reduced hospital rates.
So it's incredibly clinically and economically powerful and on that one we continue to get better every quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there a number that you can share with us on that on the catheter rate? We haven't shared it publicly before.
Why don't we talk about whether or not we start discussing it next quarter? And we'll discuss that internally in between now and then.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions here.
Kent I might have missed this but what do you attribute the strong 5.3% normalized non-acquired treatment growth to you? Is that patients getting more treatments per week or patients living longer now than previously? No is the short answer.
The primary driver of the improved non-acquired growth -- and that's the question right? What are the primary drivers of our increased NAG? Research Division</strong> Yes.
The primary drivers we're getting more de novos done and we're getting more same-store growth.
And then secondary from an analytical point of view would be the things that you cited any growth in more frequent dialysis and any increases -- or decreases in mortality increases in survivorship.
Now to some extent depending on the timeframe the ranking of those 4 factors might differ this quarter versus the last 6 months versus the last 12 months but it's a bit of a horse race across those 4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so de novos was the first one.
What was the second one? I'm sorry I missed that.
Just increased same-store growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just wondering.
.
.
Yes.
Let me add in one another point because they're furiously handing me notes.
In this particular quarter the warmer weather typically leads to fewer missed treatments and -- either because of people just missing a treatment or because of not going in the hospital.
So for this particular quarter you have to introduce that fifth variable into the mix.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And could you guys -- did you guys break that out? Or if you normalized for the mild winter what would same-store growth have been? Yes you can't normalize for that because it's impossible to come up with a metric that analytically codifies what's normal weather versus warmer.
So I mean I suppose somebody could if we allocated 3 astrophysicists to study it for a while.
But we're not going to do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good use of time.
And then I was just wondering if you could -- is there any update on the status of the various government investigations? There's really no developments there proceeding in the way that they normally proceed.
We feel very good about the merits of our case in every single instance.
But that we hasten to add does not mean that it might not be in your shareholders' best interest for us to settle in some cases.
I repeat however on the merits of our cases we continue to feel very very comfortable.
And I also -- it appears I have to amend my smart aleck comments about 3 astrophysicists because it appears our finance department had 3 astrophysicists work on it and we do have a number.
This is Jim.
It's between 20 and 30 basis points year-over-year because last year was an unusually cold and snowy winter and this year was unusually mild.
So that year-over-year comparison is about 20 to 30 bps this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Appreciate that.
That's very interesting.
And then just the last question and maybe I could shoot this over to LeAnne because I think she attended but I was just wondering what your thoughts were on the home dialysis summit that was held in D.C.
a few -- about a month ago or so.
Do you think that's going to go anyplace or what -- I know you guys are big purveyors of both PD and home hemo but I'm just wondering what her thoughts were coming out of that meeting.
Go ahead LeAnne.
Yes the meeting was really to raise awareness about the home modalities.
And as you mentioned DaVita is very much a leader in the industry in providing those to patients.
So creating awareness and options was a big part about what that meeting was.
And we participated as did most of the patient groups and manufacturers and providers.
So we're really excited about ensuring that patients have options.
Your next question comes from the line of RBC Capital from Frank Morgan.
LLC Research Division</strong> 2 quick questions here.
On the subject of increase in the EPO cost I think one of the comments was EPO utilization going up but also I think I heard pricing -- I wanted to confirm that that pricing was higher because of lower rebates.
Yes that's -- Frank that's correct.
We entered into a new agreement a new contract with Amgen.
And in that contract as we publicly disclosed some of our rebates are going down.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there any -- and I guess that cost went up year-over-year on a sequential basis I guess if it -- sequentially it'd be reflecting the new contract.
Is that correct? It is a new contract and the transition from last year's pricing to this year's pricing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there any other offset -- I mean obviously lower rebates is not a good thing but is there any kind of offset here? Or is this pretty much this is the rate going forward? This rate is generally reflective of the new pricing that we face.
We did have some transition from old pricing to new pricing in the quarter.
And it will of course -- obviously is dependent upon utilization when you look at the total cost.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it sounds like maybe EPO utilization going back up.
So is it fair to say maybe that EPO costs come down a little bit incrementally? No you should not assume that.
And right now we cannot tell you with certainty exactly what EPO pricing will be as the years unfold.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
One other quick one here on the flattening out of the commercial mix in the last several months.
Do you have any early theories on that in terms of that actually developing into a trend or any reason why it could at this point just be a head fake? Well it is difficult to predict private mix.
In general if you look over 10 years it tends to correspond in a very crude way to the healthy economy and employment.
However as we all know there's a lot of discontinuity showing up in macroeconomic data these days as we hover back and forth between recession and recovery and different things happen with respect to international economics.
So the fact that it's been flat given there has been some flattening out of unemployment claims and some pickups in employment flat versus down is not surprising.
But exactly what happens depends so much on which sectors are growing or contracting and the confidence around growth or the flattening out of unemployment.
So it's not surprising that it's flattened out given what's happened in America.
And what happens in America will most likely continue to be the primary driver of which way it moves or doesn't move going forward.
But we can't get any more precise than that.
Is that responsive? LLC Research Division</strong> That's fine.
And your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions.
In the comments earlier about G&amp;A being flat through '12 and flat to up a little bit in '13 was that on a dollar basis or a percent of revenue basis? That'd be on a per-treatment basis.
Research Division</strong> Dollars per treatment? Yes.
But it will fluctuate hopefully within a narrow band.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my other question is is there any consideration of subcu for EPO? I guess at one time a few years ago doctors were talking less about targeting lower hemoglobin using more iron and then eventually moving towards subcu.
We have seen a little bit of pick up with the small providers doing a little more subcu.
Is that something that you've completely ruled out or still unknown at this point? We have not ruled it out or ruled it in.
We really follow the guidance of our physicians and you can see how wrong a lot of the experts were who said that once the bundle went in there'd be a wholesale move to subcu.
These are the same people who said "Oh the reasons that subcu wasn't used more before were economic " which is why of course they predicted with such certainty and such flair and drama that it was going to increase dramatically as soon as the bundle went in.
They were wrong in both counts.
The clinical data around subcu was unclear before whether or not it led to sustained lower doses.
You had the issue of patient preference which tends to come down very soundly against subcu although you never know what changes there might be there with new technologies that make it less uncomfortable.
And then you have the big clinical bogeyman of the occasional incidence -- I'm not going to give the right name it's been too many years of red blood cell aplasia or something like that a very serious potential byproduct of subcu which in Europe x years ago led to some serious patient harm and made a lot of doctors uneasy about it.
And so you put all that together we don't know how many more physicians will start exploring it yet again and what the results will be.
And our behaviors and actions will follow their decisions.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last question.
Kent I heard your brief comments on the investigation update.
I just wanted to ask specifically about Denver only because on the last call you had mentioned that a few executives had been called to testify I think in front of that grand jury.
Is that -- can you comment if that -- those testimonies have been completed if that's still ongoing? Is there still an active process happening in Denver? They have done some and they're going to do some more.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Chuck Ruff with Insight Investments.
The $17 million operating loss for ancillary services strategic initiatives international can you give us some idea of where we should expect that for the year? We would -- Chuck we would expect our international losses to stay in and around the results of the first quarter.
Our -- and we would expect some improvement in our ancillary businesses over the course of the year.
Okay.
So it won't be 17x4 of 68 should -- is 50 a reasonable number for the year? I don't think we're in a position to give that -- to give a specific number Chuck but it should be less than 4x17.
Okay.
And on the cash flow statement there's a $7.1 million loss on disposal of assets.
Is that loss in G&amp;A or where is that on the income statement? And is it a recurring type thing? Let me get you an answer to that.
I'm going to -- I'll come back to that question in a minute.
Okay.
And can you give us a feel for where we should expect CapEx to be for the year? And I don't know if you can put any kind of range on the acquisition use of cash for the year.
We don't typically give CapEx guidance.
But we would expect our CapEx to be in line with -- the maintenance CapEx to be in line with prior year.
Acquisition CapEx is somewhat driven by the opportunities that are presented to us.
And at this point we really don't have the ability to give guidance on that figure.
And your next question comes on the line of Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Kent just one quick follow-up.
You made a comment about DaVita Rx being seasonally lower this quarter or at least the profit was.
Just wondering why that is.
Is there a lot of seasonality in that business? Or what drove the lower profitability this quarter? The -- I'll take a stab but other people have to correct me if I'm wrong.
I think what we found is that the first quarter when people are having their co-pays and deductibles actually does influence their decision-making around adhering to the pharmaceutical prescriptions that their doctors have recommended.
We've seen in DaVita Rx over the years how powerful microeconomic forces and incentives in fact are in determining what a lot of people with limited funds do on the pharmaceutical front.
I'm looking around the room now.
Is that the right answer? Yes Kent that's the primary driver.
And your next question comes from the line of Martin Brunninger with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> If you can just give us an update on what your plans in international growth and the expansion plans and what you have achieved so far.
I will take a stab and then you come back at me if it's unsatisfactory.
We've been pleased and excited by what's happened so far the fact that we are active in Germany India Saudi Arabia and China and also have a center in Singapore and a couple being built in Malaysia.
And so we are excited and encouraged by that.
We always hasten to remind ourselves however that we're new that we're going to make a lot of mistakes and hit a bunch of speed bumps.
So we are committed to continuing.
We're going to get smarter and better and more efficient.
But at this point there's such a wide range of potential outcomes as to exactly how many centers and what revenue and what operating contribution we're going to have at any given date and time that any alleged guidance that we would provide wouldn't really be very useful.
Research Division</strong> But could you maybe give us a broad sense of the strategy whether you're pursuing a greenfield approach in various countries? Or is there a difference in the geographies whether you prefer greenfield approach or an acquisition strategy? What do you think makes more sense mid- to long-term? In almost all cases we will devote acquisitions and de novos.
And in many cases we'll be working with local partners to help facilitate our learning.
Research Division</strong> And with respect to Germany what kind of market share do you think you can get to and what do you -- what are the regulations there at the moment that give you the biggest pushbacks? Yes.
We just don't know since I think our market share right now is probably something like 0.25%.
And we've only been in the country a few months.
We're just -- you probably know what more than we do about what to expect.
We love the fact that it is such an open market in the sense there is a very very little chain presence as you know.
But there's also a reason why the chain presence is so low compared to other countries which is there have been a lot of obstacles.
And we're hoping that we can prove with our outcomes and the way in which we collaborate with the government that some of those obstacles should be removed and then there is an awful lot of open field running opportunity in Germany over the next decade.
So we're opening -- we're hoping to accelerate that change but pretty impossible today to predict at what rate that will happen.
Research Division</strong> Maybe the last question on European countries.
I'm sure you've done lots of research there.
What's the typical profit margin on these dialysis clinics that you're looking at? Yes.
It varies so dramatically.
I don't think there is such a thing as typical not only across countries but within countries.
And for us as important as the current margin is our assessment of the expected margins over the next 10 to 15 years which creates even more variability in the forecast as you try to anticipate government reimbursement versus significant elements of the cost structure including labor so I am afraid there's no short way to answer that question because it varies across countries within countries and over time.
Sorry we don't know more.
And I'd like to return to Chuck's question.
Chuck you'd asked about on our cash flow statement our loss on disposal of assets of $7 million.
It's disposal of assets and other noncash charges.
And principally the answer to the question is the amortization of our deferred financing cost is the vast majority of that line item.
And hopefully that is responsive to your question.
If not feel free to jump back in the queue and refine the question.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Matt Weight with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly here.
The sequential increase in patient care cost per treatment about $3.50 was that predominantly due to the lower rebates or is that overstating that? The patient care cost it's a number of things -- a number of factors add into it.
But in order of relevance it's the compensation expense and higher payroll taxes would be the largest impact.
And then increased cost for EPO.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you say how much DSI integration costs were included in G&amp;A this quarter? It's about $5 million in the quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think previously you thought that that integration would be complete by the second quarter.
Is that still on track? We're still on track with our integration plan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And just last question.
When we start thinking about integrated care is there any differences or challenges in how you would incorporate or manage a home dialysis patient versus in-center? Say that question again please.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well within integrated care are there any challenges or differences when you look at a home dialysis patient versus one that's in-center? In-center I'm assuming it's easier to monitor their weight and then so I'm just -- what other challenges there may be or differences? All right let me take a stab at it.
There's a lot of differences in how you take care of a home patient versus in-center.
And this is because there is a lot of differences.
Separately from patient preference there is differences in which patients can do one of the 2 home modalities versus in-center modality and then there's also the variable of which patients can and would prefer nocturnal.
And so there's a bunch of differences.
I don't know where to take it beyond that.
Some things are easier about working with home patients some things are harder because you don't see them as often and vice versa with the in-center.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The demonstration project do you have home dialysis patients in that? Boy I'm not -- I presume so.
I've always presumed so.
And so I actually can't answer the question because I've never asked it.
And maybe there's some bizarre fact that I'm not aware of where we don't have them in.
Just -- and I'm looking around the room.
None of us know.
So presume the answer is yes.
And if it's not we'll get back to you.
And your next question comes from the line of John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Some of the -- a couple of the private companies are particularly enthusiastic about the physician JV model.
As you move forward is it reasonable to expect 5 years from now you'll have more doctors under JV than you have now? And is that -- would that change be driven by your preference or just by the realities of the marketplace as people compete for your docs and new docs coming out of school? If you're talking about joint ventures where both the physicians and we own -- we together own equity at the dialysis center is that what you're talking about? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No.
We already do more joint ventures dialysis centers with doctors than anyone else in America by far and that's been true for a long long time.
So we were leaders in that space.
We think it's really good for the patient and the taxpayer as well as for our shareholders.
And we don't expect that to change going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And has that percentage been increasing over the past 5 years? Short answer is yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And have you ever disclosed what percent are JV versus medical director model? We have at different times thrown numbers out and we'll probably do it again at our next Capital Markets Day.
So I don't have the number at the tip of my fingers right now but we'll disclose it I would guess at the next Capital Markets.
And for a reasonably up-to-date number you could go to the transcripts for the last Capital Markets because of course in any given year it doesn't change that much.
And your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just coming back for one more.
I just wanted to go to the kind of the seasonality of operating income this year and you had made some comments about 2Q operating income probably being down sequentially and you'd talked about a few different factors driving that.
And I was just kind of looking back in my model as far as I can see and I don't have a 2Q operating income number down sequentially.
So is the biggest part of this that annual meeting is typically a 1Q event and this year it's a 2Q event? Is that the biggest factor? Or is there an extra treatment day or something? Could you give a little more color on your expectation there? Well our annual leadership conference has always occurred in the second quarter.
We typically have fewer days in the first quarter.
It's usually 2 days on average sometimes 3 days on average than the rest of the year and that is the principal reason why our first quarter typically is lower seasonally.
Of course you also have payroll tax reset which occurs in the first quarter.
This year we have -- with our new -- with our expectations on utilization our new EPO contract and the leadership conference in the second quarter we could be flat to down sequentially.
Research Division</strong> And the 2Q treatment days do you know what would those be? It will be more than -- I think it's one more day.
People are shaking their heads here.
I believe it's one more day in the quarter.
Let me go ahead and go back to the question raised by the previous questioner.
In our 10-K we reported 18% of dialysis revenues were generated from JV centers.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
All right.
Thank you all very much for your continued interest in our company.
We will work very hard between now and the next call to try to generate an attractive risk-adjusted short- and long-term return on your capital.
Thank you.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Candace and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to DaVita's Q2 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Jim Gustafson you may begin your call.
Thank you Candace and welcome everyone to our second quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations and with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Jim Hilger our interim CFO; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included on our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Okay.
Thank you Jim and welcome to everyone.
Thank you for your interest in your company and our company.
The second quarter was a rock solid one as probably you already know from looking at the release.
We did perform well clinically operationally and strategically.
And I'll cover a few topics here before we turn it over to Jim.
As usual covering clinical outcomes I'll provide an update on legal proceedings as well and then talk a little bit about our outlook.
First clinical outcomes.
We always present those first because that is what comes first.
We are first and foremost a caregiver company serving now approximately 150 000 patients in the U.S.
and some elsewhere as you know.
Rather than provide the normal clinical metrics I'm going to take a little bit of a different path today and give you a sense of the dynamism and living our core value continuous improvement and just give you a sense of some data that I shared with about 3 000 of our leaders from across America just a few weeks ago.
June was our best month ever in 3 categories: fistulas placed fistulas in use and day 90 catheters.
And looking at Q2 overall it was the best quarter -- excuse me the second best quarter ever -- excuse me the second quarter was the best ever I can't read my own handwriting for Kt/V less than 1.2 and URR less than 65.
So in addition to us still looking very good on the normal metrics we report just wanted to give you a sense of how closely we monitor our continuous improvement for some of those categories we have had improvements every single quarter for over 2 years.
And one of the great things about this is not only does it mean that our patients are experiencing the benefit of higher quality care and better outcomes but also those improvements in those outstanding absolute and relative levels of clinical performance drive reductions and hospitalizations and surgical procedures and therefore drive savings to the U.S.
health care system improving our value proposition each and every quarter.
On to the second topic which is not nearly as positive.
Just a brief update on our recently announced legal settlement.
We did as most of you know agree in principle to settle the Woodard case for $55 million plus attorney's fees and some other related expenses.
This was an exceptionally frustrating situation because we do not believe we nor the physicians prescribing EPO to patients in our clinics to this period did anything wrong.
Please remember the government thoroughly investigated these allegations on their own and decided not to intervene.
But the individual that had filed this suite still had the right to pursue their claims on their own.
And the sad fact is that sometimes agreements like this are in your best interest and we respect that.
Third category our outlook.
And here I'm going to take a few minutes to put a fair amount of color around it.
Although there is nothing new in what I'm about to say just important to refresh it every now and then.
We are increasing our 2012 operating income guidance to a range of $1.275 billion to $1.325 billion excluding that second quarter legal accrual.
This guidance captures a majority of the probabilistic outcomes of course we could fall above or below.
Maybe one doesn't fall above but maybe might fall below and reach above.
Looking out further however let's restate some of the more significant business risks that you should worry about because we do as well as the strengths and upsides that we derive comfort from and you should too.
On the risk side I will cite 4: a government reimbursement no one needs any significant elaboration there; b commercial patient reimbursement because it does not only account for 100% of our profits but in fact more because the private patients unfortunately much more than Medicare in order to subsidize the losses we sustain on the 90% of our patients that are government reimbursed not an optimal system for society but it's the one we live in.
This commercial patient reimbursement remains an area of risk.
As a reminder we just want to say that we may be forced in some cases to turn away patients rather than accept new patients at unacceptable rates and there remains a lot of uncertainty around the impact of exchanges on our private patients as it does for lots of other health care service segments.
Item 3 under risk factors oral drugs will be added to the bundle in 2014 at a currently unknown number.
And item #4 under the risk category our new models of care such as ACOs Accountable Care Organizations that everybody's talking about and changing affiliation models for physicians like employment by hospitals that also everyone is talking about.
The bad news is that when you have new dynamics like this is that they may well create downside for us.
The good news is that they may well create upside and only time will tell.
Moving away from those 4 significant business risks I'll cite 6 strengths and upsides that you can balance against those risks.
Number one excellent and continuously improving clinical care.
That does significantly reduce shareholder risk separate from its consistency with our mission.
Second our steady volume growth.
Third the history of solid cash generation and deployment.
Four a strong national market position.
Five our capability to provide integrated kidney care which significantly increases quality while decreasing cost and customers more and more open to that kind of improved value proposition and willing to do the administrative work to put it in place.
And then finally number 6 an extension of MSP although we make no prediction about when that might happen.
So moving away from outlook maybe give me a 1 moment to cover HealthCare Partners which we expect to close in the fourth quarter of this year consistent with what we said before.
As we discussed at our Capital Markets Day integrated care is where we believe the health care book is heading.
This is not exactly an insight anymore.
It's where a lot of a people think the puck [ph] is heading too and remain very excited about the potential.
As we had hoped the announcement of our combination has precipitated significant additional interest from a bunch of organizations across America and we are working with our wonderful new teammates the HealthCare Partners leaders to respond to all that interest.
And I will now turn the call over to Jim Hilger.
Thanks Kent.
During the quarter we experienced strong operating income and cash flow driven by strong treatment growth.
Our non-acquired growth was 4.7% when normalized for days of the week.
Dialysis revenue per treatment was consistent with the prior quarter and our commercial mix was flat with the first quarter.
Dialysis patient care cost per treatment was up about $1.50 from the prior quarter.
This increase reflects higher compensation expense higher travel expense due to our annual national leadership meeting and increased unit cost for Epogen.
Please note that EPO utilization was flat with the prior quarter.
And based on our conversations with physicians we continue to expect utilization will be at slightly higher levels going forward.
These increases were somewhat offset by lower accruals for self-insurance reserves in the quarter.
Our second quarter dialysis G&amp;A per treatment was down about $1.50 from the prior quarter.
This decrease was primarily due to lower professional fee spending and a continued decrease in DSI integration costs as the DSI integration is almost complete.
Note that in the second quarter we had approximately $10 million in HealthCare Partners transaction related expenses.
These expenses and the $6 million of transaction expenses that we incurred in the first quarter are now reflected in our corporate level charges and not in dialysis G&amp;A.
Despite the fact that we had some nonrecurring transaction costs in the quarter we review -- we view our Q2 operating income to be a fairly representative run rate as we had some other operating items including favorable insurance accrual true-ups previously mentioned in the quarter to offset these transaction related costs.
On to international.
Our international losses in the quarter were $12 million reflecting higher legal and professional fee expense related to our development efforts.
We now expect international losses to be in the mid-$30 millions for 2012.
The main drivers for this change are the higher legal and professional fee expenses that I just mentioned delays in closing certain transactions and our decisions to do -- to not do some deals due to their valuations.
As an update on our international activities.
We have recently entered Saudi Arabia expanded the number of centers in India and were awarded a second management contract in Singapore and also received a license to operate in Malaysia.
In addition we expect to be operating centers in China in the third quarter.
All this underscores what we have said before.
While international expansion is a long-term growth opportunity it will require investment and continued losses in the near term.
Now turning to cash flow.
Operating cash flow was $202 million in the second quarter.
We still anticipate full year 2012 operating cash flow will be in the range of $950 million to $1.05 billion.
This range includes the expected payment in 2012 of the $78 million legal contingency that we recorded in the quarter.
Now with respect to HCP.
After HealthCare Partners' second quarter results are finalized we will include them in our planned S-3 filing which hopefully will be filed in the near future.
HealthCare Partners continues to perform according to plan and its results are consistent with the 2012 and 2013 EBITDA outlook that we provided in June.
First quarter results were strong and we do have an indication that EBITDA in the second quarter will be approximately $135 million.
We repeat this is on-plan and consistent with expectations.
But as always our outlook captures a majority of likely outcomes but actual results could fall above or below this guidance.
And in regards to the DaVita merger process with HCP I'm happy to report that the transaction remains on plan.
In fact we're launching our bank financing this week and the bond financing hopefully later this month or potentially in early September.
Demand for this offering appears strong.
In fact we have already received commitments for 95% of our Term Loan A.
And with that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess maybe just to step back to some of your comments on the G&amp;A line.
Was the $10 million that was included in G&amp;A or that was not included in G&amp;A? I'm sorry that just wasn't clear.
Gary that $10 million is reported in our G&amp;A line in our financial statements.
But in the supplemental data in our press release what you'll see is the $10 million is now reported in our corporate level charges and not in dialysis G&amp;A and that's for purposes of segment reporting.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what was the amount of the med mal true-up? We're not breaking out the different insurance trips.
It was in a couple of different categories Gary.
But in aggregate it offset a bunch of the transaction expenses.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess big picture since you announced the HCP acquisition obviously the Supreme Court ruled in favor of healthcare reforms.
I guess can you talk about the HCP acquisition in that context and do you feel better or worse or any different about the acquisition post that decision? I think the most important response is that it wasn't a big deal either way.
There were some upsides and downsides in each direction.
And we think independent of the specifics of that decision that the trend is clear.
The demand is clear the need is clear.
Having said all that reforms staying in place probably means that ACOs and some other organizations that we think reinforce the need for what HealthCare Partners does differentially well probably accelerates those.
And so is a net incremental positive.
On the other hand if it had been repealed there were some immediate P&amp;L pickups that would've been kind of nice but not strategically essential.
So I think it's a slight positive.
We've got Matthew the CFO of HealthCare Partners here.
Matthew I don't know if you want to add anything to that? That was perfect.
That's the way we look at it based on that decisions.
Your next question comes from line of Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two things.
I wanted to just talk a little bit about international.
I understand you've increased your losses.
Can you just share with us the revenue and loss contribution from international in the second quarter? And I guess just maybe some forward-looking comments on the number of clinics that are in the works here for the back half of the year just so we can put the international losses into more perspective.
Well let me talk about the number of centers and then Jim will respond to what you asked about the revenues and expenses to the extent we're prepared to do that.
I think the number of centers we had approximately in Q1 was about 15.
Now it's about 19.
And there's some more in the pipeline.
But with deals particularly international deals when you're learning like we are you can never be too sure if and when they're going to close.
And so there's more variability than we're used to in the domestic side of the business.
So on the center level and patient level the growth is chugging along with some fits and starts.
Is that responsive for you on the center and patient volume side? Research Division</strong> Yes.
No I think so.
I mean I guess you've given us a flavor for some new countries that you'll be in.
So I think that's good.
Maybe just some numbers on international and then I just had a question on HCP if I could? Okay we will come back to HCP.
Darren the -- on international still very early days as we've just getting under -- our feet underneath those.
But our revenue in the second quarter was approximately $4 million.
And we had a heavy professional fee expense that really the transaction that we're working on that resulted in the approximately $12 million in losses in the quarter.
And maybe Gary before we go to your HCP question.
If I read into your questions about international a broader higher-level question which is are we happy with the level of P&amp;L expense versus the current reality and trajectory of revenue and operating contribution from centers.
The answer to that question is no.
On to HCP.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Fair enough.
So HCP I guess the question thanks for giving us the EBITDA numbers which look pretty much in a band with what we saw from Q1.
But I guess the question here is this somewhat volatile reporting season for managed care? And we did hear a little bit about some volatility in the MA books of the some of the other companies in the managed care space.
So I guess just maybe a broad comment or 2 if you would on HCP's performance in the context of what you saw relative to how you priced PMPMs.
Matt I know you're in the room so any sort of broad brush commentary you can say about the performance of HCP and what looks to be a little bit more of a difficult operating environment for your managed care partners there.
Let me take a cut at answering and then Matthew will correct any mistakes.
That some of the trends being discussed by others are a result of their PPO books of business.
And our book of business is dominantly on the HMO side which has very low out-of-pocket expenses et cetera.
And therefore utilization tends not to be as affected either way.
Meaning it didn't go down in the last few years because of recessionary effects or any of the other effects that are often cited nor would it therefore go back up to much more steady state because the economics of our base of business just don't change in the way that the books of business that are being commented on by others change.
Having said that I will now turn to the person who taught me all that Matthew.
Thank you Kent.
I think that's accurate.
And the way we look at this is in the managed care even the very small co-pay and coinsurances that these patients have and some of the health plans as you know have changed their benefit.
That even hasn't changed any utilization and we tracked that.
Especially for the Medicare Advantage population because the Medicare Advantage population normally have very very small co-pay and coinsurance.
And they're really -- the physician is in control of the utilization.
So we have not experienced any trend like what these health plans have been reporting.
Our exposure to -- we don't have any PPO that's capitated for us or we take any risk whatsoever on that book of business.
Those are all based on fee-for-service.
I'll make one other point Gary because it's so important and we made in our Capital Markets Day but this kind of underlines it which is one of the reasons that we chose HealthCare Partners is because how strong their clinical emphasis is.
And they proactively pursue trying to identify what chronic conditions patients have and then proactively try to get them more time with the doctor.
And that's all because keeping people healthy is the most powerful long-term economic driver.
But this is yet another reason why some of these microeconomic or microbehavioral factors that other plans or delivery models refer to don't affect us because what our doctors think is right for the patients and our care manager thinks is right for the patients is totally unaffected by anybody's deductible or co-pay.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Andrew with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Kent if you might give us some insights into some of the potential partners that have approached you after the HCP deal whether it relates to size or geography and if there's things there that are of -- whether near-term or maybe 2013 -- interest? I think I can't give a useful answer because we've been contacted by organizations from all geographies and all sizes contacted by both payers and delivery organizations both hospital-oriented and physician-led.
So it's pretty much runs the whole gamut along all the categories you cited.
Which ones of those will turn into partnerships and done deals and new business of course time will tell.
But it's been very encouraging nonetheless.
Research Division</strong> Kent do you view that as more sort of partnerships as opposed to acquisition opportunities or also again same answer? Same answer.
It's just so early on.
It's certainly some of both and we're certainly open to both.
But boy it's way too early in the game to start getting more specific.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one other question if I may.
I know in the past you'd invested aggressively in IT infrastructure in an attempt to build out your capabilities on the accountable care side.
Have you been able to get a better understanding of how HCP may allow you to taper some of that or are you still learning how those 2 systems will dovetail and what you may need because we didn't see a real change there in trajectory on those investments it appears this quarter? Yes.
Fair.
Very fair observation.
The short answer is no.
We do not expect the combination of the 2 companies is going to lead to any change in IT spending in either company.
There's too many differences and both of them are so busy adding to their capabilities for their different businesses that it would not make economic nor strategic sense to divert talent to try to pick up minor synergies.
So you're not going to see any relief in the IT math on either side.
And your next question comes from Matt Weight with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kent last quarter EPO utilization was flat.
It was flat again here in the second quarter.
It sounds like you're still expecting it to be slightly up.
Is this continuing just to be from what physicians are saying or is there some hard evidence this is occurring? I know it's what physicians are saying.
I do not know of any actual trend but there could be one because it's not something that I'm necessarily conversant on over the last 4 to 8 weeks particularly given the general consensus from what a lot of docs are saying which tends to typically end up being true.
We with our physician community have been experimenting and exploring and comparing different anemia management protocols and since that work continues even as we speak it's kind of hard to get any more definitive.
But the answer to your question is it's from my point of view totally based on what doctors are saying perhaps just someone else in the room that as the call proceeds will be able to answer more specifically with respect to any hard data trends.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then just the only other question here with the Woodward settlement there.
Is there any potential to see some reduced G&amp;A spend with presumably lower legal compliance? Well certainly.
The spending on that lawsuit will go way way down and away very very quickly and so that's a definite pickup and a nontrivial pickup.
Whether or not anything else is going to ramp up and keep us at the prior level I actually don't know for sure because each of the different major legal issues tends to ebb and flow.
And so I can definitely assert there will be a pickup in nice savings.
I just don't know if anything else is going to pop up to offset it.
Your next question comes from Kevin Fischbeck from the Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I appreciated the numbers on HealthCare Partners for the EBITDA this quarter.
Do you have the number for the previous year quarter? I don't think that was disclosed in the proxy? We have not disclosed the Q2 2011 numbers yet nor have we disclosed other than giving you an indication of how Q2 2012 was going to result.
We will have that in our S-3 filing but that is still being prepared and those numbers are still being finalized.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess Kent in your comments you made some comments about integrated kidney care and how that more payers are open to that type of structure.
I guess that it would include commercial payers.
Are you seeing -- or do you actually have more kind of larger bundled type contracts with commercial right now is that something that's going on or is it in discussion stages? Nothing significant has happened.
And I would assert that you shouldn't presume that anything material will happen on the commercial side within your investment timeframe.
So it's really good for hopefully reinforcing the fact that we're differentially effective in managing total cost.
And hopefully that will buy us some incremental patient volume and security on our current rates with the right annual inflation increases.
So I think most of the economic value tied to that conversation is going to be embedded in those 2 things as opposed to expecting any big commercial globally capitated contract anytime in your investment time frame.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it sounds like you're experiencing [ph]  A little bit more losses in the International business now but you obviously raised the guidance.
What were the drivers to the guidance range? Well I don't have a good concise answer for that one.
Why don't you let us play with it a little bit while we answer the questions and see if we can be useful and organized.
It was pretty broad based which is why we didn't cite any 1 or 2 drivers.
But let us reflect a little bit as we move through the call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question capital deployment.
Obviously you have some pretty big capital deployment by year-end.
Should we just assume that cash kind of builds up on the balance sheet after you do some of the smaller U.S.
and international deals that you kind of always do? Or is there room to do things like share repurchase et cetera between now and year end or is just cash building up for that the most logical use? Yes.
A very fair question.
I think we just can't answer anything other than the normal generic way we have for 10 years that we take deployment -- the generation and deployment of cash as your sacred trust in us.
And every quarter we look a lot at how much leverage is appropriate given the near-term outlook and debt rates whether or not this is the right time to repurchase stock.
Are we likely to do a bunch of acquisitions? How much cushion should we have? And so I just don't think that it's a good idea for us to start predicting what's going to happen with our cash balance over the next x months.
Because the fact is whatever prediction we have today could change tomorrow because of all those other factors and our desire and long-standing inclination to be nimble and responsive.
So I don't mean to avoid the question.
But I think we just better stay away from it because it's so darn situational.
And your next question comes from Gary Taylor of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones on dialysis first.
Other revenue was up $20 million sequentially.
Were acquisitions a part of that or what else was driving that sequential revenue growth? It's principally DaVita Rx.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's a big sequential jump was there a new contract or something that...
DaVita Rx just continues to expand at a pretty steady rate.
We're very pleased with our performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understandably.
And then the other dialysis question is really since I guess the bundled payment rules got finalized you've really had some much higher acquisition activity that just continued last quarter this quarter another 33 centers.
Is your outlook that you can continue that really substantial pace through the rest of this year.
And is the primary driver still just the change of payment model and small guys getting out? Well first what we expect for the balance of this year is incorporated into our adjusted guidance with all the normal caveats around it.
Second it is so difficult to predict when more people are going to want to sell and with what intensity are they going to want to sell it at what prices are they going to be willing to sell.
So I don't know that we've demonstrated a lot of confidence in predicting that over the last few years.
It is certainly the case however that what you said is true.
That lots of the smaller players with everything that's going on in the country and everything that's going on with government spending and everything that's going on with health care that you have more of the small players who are saying this is a reasonable time to exit and/or find a stable and value-added partner.
So I think there's going to continue to be deals but whether or not it's going to continue at the pace that we've enjoyed for the last 1.5 years or so we just don't know.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Last question is on HCP and maybe I'll direct this towards Matt.
We're just trying to understand the risk contracts a little better particularly the California contracts that you've disclosed in the filings where Europe bookings shared savings but not really booking the gross per member per month revenue.
And so I kind of have 2 questions around that.
One do you have the same risk in those contracts as you do on the capitated contracts? So if total medical expense exceeds the per member per month do you take losses on those contracts? Or are you broadly capped? And secondly there's about $800 million of managed revenue under various shared saving type contracts that is not being booked as revenue.
I guess how much of your booked revenue represents shared savings earnings from that $800 million of managed revenue? Just give us 1 second here to confirm before we respond.
Hold on 1 second.
Gary those are fair questions so in California because we don't have what's called a [indiscernible] license we are not capitated by the health plan for what's referred to as institutional risk.
So those risks are being capped by the HMOs.
And then we have various risk share arrangement with them that those are confidential information at what risk we have.
As far as the number you quoted for the managing the institutional that number is what we are still managing that care.
However what you're recognizing in our financial statement for California is the net results.
Research Division</strong> And is that a figure as it impacts your revenue line that you'll ever disclose for us?  I guess we're -- obviously we're just trying to be in a position to model that better.
We're still sorting out what's going to be the right way for us to report so that you guys get all the information you need to make your decisions.
And at the same time we don't sacrifice any competitive advantage or limit our ability to add future value for you in how we contract.
So we're still sorting that out and of course the deal is not even closed yet even though we're working very closely together in driving towards the future together.
So I think on that one you just have to wait a few more months.
And your next question comes from John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on Gary's line of questioning.
Generally speaking how direct or not is the relationship between the gross rates received by say a Medicare Advantage payor and the rate that HealthCare Partners gets either in a traditional model or what you're doing in California and other places? All of our Medicare Advantage contracts are as a percentage of what CMS pay the health plans.
So I would say it has a very direct relationship or correlation with that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And generally speaking in years past let's say when pricing was not so good what did -- what's the -- because you guys look like you just performed right through all cycles.
But what steps are -- what levers are there if -- let's look at 2013 with sequestration or 2014 with MLR regs and what have you.
What -- generally what levers are there for you? Because you're already operating at a very high level with your cost performance.
What additional levers are there on the margin side to manage through a negative pricing cycle? As far as our activities I mean every single day we have ideas by our providers and physicians and care management and clinical people how we can do this with a higher quality service and reduced cost.
So we still are very bullish at our ability to reduce cost for Medicare Advantage patients.
So from that point of view I think we feel and I think we have Incorporated that in our projections that fee for service equivalence reduction on the Medicare we still -- the results are we continue doing very well on Medicare Advantage.
And what I'll add to that is you are pointing towards some of the sort of structural and programmatic risk on the revenue side.
Parts of our cost structure are directly contractually linked to CMS reimbursements.
So the cost structure adopts proportionate to the revenue structure for a subset of the business.
In addition when Medicare revenue economics are bad that tends to affect the entire health care arena hospitals nurse and other caregiver and physician compensation expectations et cetera.
So there is a less direct meaning not contractual linkage between revenue and cost structure.
But nonetheless a very real one.
None of this in what Matthew said and what I'm adding means that we're totally buffered.
We don't mean to suggest that.
Rather there are some significant offsets and those are 3 of the categories in which you find them.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And that is a great help.
Just a couple of little additional things.
In your mind generally speaking if you looked at the 100 largest markets in the U.S.
are there structural -- because 1 of the critiques we hear is well they've done great in laboratory perfect conditions with high Medicare rates and physicians willing to play ball.
But as you look across the U.S.
you think about exporting this model you think about your M&amp;A.
Do you find any huge structural barriers? Is it going to work in 25% of the markets 50% of the markets 10%? How do you think about the opportunity to export the model beyond the states that you're in? Well that's a fair question John.
So I'm going to answer it from 2-point of view.
One is that Medicare Advantage and managed care in your traditional HMO.
We still feel that there is tremendous opportunity there and also the population health.
We also are trying with this Accountable Care Organization which is basically incorporating the population health and all the things that we do with evidence-based medicine in a fee-for-service environment.
That's both Medicare and the commercial.
So we look at the opportunities are endless out there both in the markets that they are not producing the kind of quality service and cost that we're producing on HMO and the markets that they this fragmented fee-for-service and there is no metric on equality and service.
So we see the potential is incredibly rich out there for what we do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is the -- I think you mentioned this before but please remind me.
I guess in our simplistic mind the 85% MLR mandate should increase the demand for what you do because you're able to solve a problem with your customer your upstream customer? Is that a good way to think about it or is that -- are we missing something? I think I'd look at it a little bit differently.
I'd look at it that we're at this position that anything that health plans pays us is calculated towards their MLR.
We are not under any MLR rules or restriction.
Therefore the opportunity is to give us even more opportunity to take the entire risk.
And for that the HMOs can include that in part of their MLR.
Yes.
So I think the -- what Matthew is saying is your assessment is correct and he's talking about some of the reasoning why it is.
At the same time we don't think it's any reason to start dramatically changing forecasts of anything.
The world is too complicated for that.
But directionally your hypothesis is correct and then he's talking about the next level of detail as to how they think about it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you guys mentioned before that I think maybe some of us made the mistake of thinking you're like this captive Kaiser model and all the doctors are employed.
And you mentioned that a lot of the doctors are essentially just contract.
Have you -- did I miss this have you provided a breakout of employed versus contracted doctors? And is that something that you have a preference for one way or the other? We actually love both.
The fact is it's wonderful to have a foundation of employed doctors because that means the level of operating integration and mission alignment and all the rest is just so so tight.
At the same time in order to have a superior value proposition to the patients and to the payors having network physicians around and in between employed leads to just a higher value products.
So we're always going to have both because it works best.
In addition in many instances the affiliated docs who end up subsequently becoming employed docs once they have gotten comfortable and familiar with the mission alignment and the basic operating competence and economic fairness.
So that would be my response.
Matthew? Yes.
And I would add to that the difference is Kaiser employed all of their physicians.
We appeal to both group of physician.
The physicians who want to be employed and the physician who wants to stay independent and just contract with us for all of the services that we bring to them the hospital list the after-hours care all kind of things that we do.
So we are comfortable as Kent said with both group and we don't mind growing in each segment from that point of view.
And your next question comes from the line of Whit Mayo with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I don't think I heard a direct comment on this maybe you gave it.
But can you elaborate more on the second quarter EBITDA number with HCP just the 135 when I square that with the 150 it's obviously lower on a sequential basis.
So anyway to put that number in context for us? We obviously don't have the benefit of seeing some of the details behind that.
Well we're not prepared to go into a detailed breakdown on the differences between the quarters.
But suffice to say that we did view Q1 as a strong quarter but within plan.
And our full year of guidance remains unchanged.
Q2 is in line with what we had expected.
And again our guidance for the year remains unchanged.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned that you plan on launching the financing pretty soon maybe this is public and I've missed it.
But any details with how you're thinking about the structure of the debt financing between bank debt and bonds at this point? Yes.
We hope to raise approximately $3 billion in bank debt.
And some of that in Term Loan A and some Term Loan B.
And then in addition to that we expect to raise roughly $1 billion in notes.
And the term -- the split between the Term Loan A and Term Loan B will be somewhat dependent upon demand.
But we are currently expecting a little more Term Loan A than B.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it's probably a little too premature to ask sort of what the indications of interest are in terms of rates.
Well in our S-4 filing which I point you to we had to use pro forma rate of 5.24% including swap rates for the overall debt that we'd be raising from the new debt.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And maybe one last question here maybe fair unfair not sure how you want to look at it.
But not to undermine or belittle Jim's contribution.
But Kent maybe can you talk a little bit about where you are in the search for a full-time CFO and what the timetable looks like to bring someone onboard? I'm sure there are a lot of kind of variables at play there.
No.
I appreciate the straightforwardness of the question.
And the fact is we've just started the search.
And actually let me go back and you may want to ask a follow-up question but I want to go back to a question that was asked maybe 15 minutes ago and try to be a little more helpful.
As you look at our cash and our balance sheet perhaps the way to shed some more light on where that question was going is post deal close our leverage ratio will be 3.7 that is slightly outside our historical range of 3 to 3.5.
But of course we've always said there will be times when we're below and times when we're above.
That is a fairly small amount above and even if we do quite a few acquisitions we will delever to be beneath it relatively quickly.
This means our ability to have the full spectrum of options with respect to cash deployment which means acquisitions versus debt paydown versus share buyback will continue to exist throughout this entire period because in the right situation we're not averse to being above 3.7.
However we love the fact that absent any significant opportunities for cash -- deploying cash elsewhere we'll delever beneath that quite quickly.
Now back to the CFO question.
Did I -- I think I answered the one you asked is there anything else you wanted to know? Research Division</strong> Well you said that the process has really just begun and I was kind of curious if there is -- the board if you had a conversation with the board in terms of timetables with which you'd like to bring someone onboard? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Any way to elaborate any further on that? No I don't mean to be cute.
Yes the board and I have had lots of conversations.
And yes we've talked about different timetables.
And no I don't think it's a good idea to share it.
It's so unpredictable to figure out when you're going to make decisions in an important search process.
And so I just don't think there's any particular upside in doing that and a lot of downside.
Your next question comes from Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
Kent I was wondering if on the dialysis side have you seen any integrated care pilot programs with any of the commercial payors? Can you ask the question again I missed the first part.
My bad.
Research Division</strong> Are there any integrated care pilots that you guys are participating in with the managed-care payors? On the commercial side? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well yes is the short answer and have been for some time doing some work with some commercial payors on integrated care.
It's not globally capitated but a number of different arrangements where we do stuff beyond dialysis to manage the patient in a more holistic way and one way or another we get compensated for it.
Research Division</strong> So that's been going on for some time.
Can you say about how long these pilots have been going on? I wouldn't call them pilots because they're just basic contractual arrangements with a small number of commercial payors.
And it's been years.
The good news is it's been years and we've generated good results for those payors.
The bad news is it's never really caught on and grown to be material enough to talk about to you.
But we appreciate the question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
Now your big competitor mentioned it today on their call and I thought there might have been some new pilot that rolled out but I guess not.
And then I know someone else asked the question about the integrated care RFP from Medicare.
Do you have any idea on the timing? And what about the size have you caught wind of anything new out of Washington? Short answer is no.
It's still very little guidance on what the specs will be and that's of course just discussing the first draft and then what emerges subsequent to a comment period or all the interaction even more difficult to predict.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what about the home therapies? It sounds like -- can you give us any update on how home dialysis is trending for you specifically PD versus home hemo? Both PD and the home hemo are growing and we will repeat what we've said for quite some time which is that there are folks who have a vested interest in pushing one or the other of those modalities and talk about glorious clinical and economic results from increased utilization and forecast amazing growth.
And then there are others who have a vested interest in other modalities and are very critical of what those outcomes are and issues of self-selection and are quite skeptical of any differential economic or clinical performance across the broad patient population.
We are totally impartial.
We do more of them than anyone in America and we are still learning a lot every quarter about what subsegments of the patient population benefit.
And if there is a clinical benefit for the patient at what cost to society does that benefit come is it higher lower or the same? So they are both growing and we remain incredibly curious and eager to keep generating clinical insights and economic insights every year.
Did I answer the question? Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
That's helpful.
And just one last one on HCP.
We understand that HealthCare Partners is a standalone business versus the dialysis business.
But is there anything within HCP's integrated care model that you can take out and maybe apply to the dialysis business especially when we've seen an expanded bundle or integrated care program rolled out from Medicare? We are going to have a very intense session very soon comparing what we do in integrated care with kidney care patients to what they do because they have over 1 000 of those types of patients in their delivery model already.
So there'll be some very rigorous idea sharing there at a  superficial level we do a lot of the same things which is no surprise.
But there could be some nice learning at the second or third level.
Beyond that there is nothing obvious that jumps out and would be economically material.
But who knows as we go through the next year or 2 of what learnings might flow in each direction as we work in different ways with the same payers some of the same doctors some of the same integrated delivery systems.
So we are sure there's going to be some more real insight sharing back and forth.
We're just not sure when and in what area.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Matt Weight with Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up question on HCP for Matt here and it's more of a process question.
Matt when new members come on during the annual enrollment period Medicare Advantage fully capitated how long does it typically take you to cycle through these members so you can understand their health status get the risk code accurate send it on CMS so you can ultimately get a higher risk score or higher reimbursement for those members? That's a fair question.
So what we try to do in the first 30 days that the member has signed up we want that member to come to our physicians whether those are employee physicians or contracted physician and have a full physical on -- at the same time while we are asking for the medical record from the previous providers for those new patients to be transferred.
So usually is much shorter than 30 days.
But our goal is within the first 30 days have that patient has a very comprehensive physical exam done.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So would you say that after the first year those new members are running profitability rates similar to what you would say existing members are? I think it's hard to predict.
Every market every population is different.
So I wouldn't say it might -- some patients it might take us day 1 some patient it takes us a little but longer.
What we care about is what I refer to as if they are deferred care that we need to provide and sometimes recovering if you will for those deferred  care might take 3 months or 6 months or 1 year.
But the key is to find out all the issues with the patient and have a treatment plan and refer them to the right specialist or right treatment plan and caregiver and care education.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was just surprised because I was under the assumption that CMS only updates risk scores twice a year.
So if somebody came on in January.
I would've expected that maybe it would be difficult to get an updated risk score that quickly in March.
You are absolutely right as far as the risk score for the purpose of paying us but we like to capture all the -- because risk score is a proxy for all the conditions chronic conditions that the patient have.
That is the most important thing for us which is capturing those chronic conditions so we can develop a treatment plan for these patients.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back to our presenter for closing remarks.
All right.
Thank you very much for your interest in DaVita HealthCare Partners.
We will work hard for you over the next 90 days and look forward to talking to you again then.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jona and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the DaVita Q3 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Jim Gustafson you may join your -- start your conference.
Thank you Jona and welcome everyone to our third quarter conference call.
We appreciate your interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations and with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Jim Hilger our interim CFO; LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President; and Matthew Mazdyasni HealthCare Partners Executive Vice President and CFO.
Also Bob Margolis HCP's CEO may be joining us later in the call as well.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements are based on the information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally I'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Okay.
Thank you Jim and thanks to all of you for joining on this call and we are hoping that all of you and your families and friends are safe and are going to get through the storm okay.
The second quarter was a solid quarter.
We did well both clinically and operationally.
I'll cover 3 topics: Clinical outcomes our outlook and then HealthCare Partners in turn.
But first clinical outcomes as we always do because that is what comes first.
We are at our most basic a caregiving company serving approximately 151 000 patients now and soon many more when we close the HealthCare Partners combination.
With respect to adequacy which is essentially how well we're doing at removing toxins from our patients' blood this quarter 98% of our hemodialysis patients had a Kt/V greater than 1.2.
Second with respect to vascular access 71% of our patients have fistulas.
Third with respect to phosphorous 81% of our patients have phosphorous levels less than or equal to 5.5 milligrams per deciliter.
We also did very well in vaccinations in a number of other areas.
And for these and virtually all other clinical measures our patient outcomes compare very favorably to the national averages.
And this quality care not only results in healthier patients but also drives reductions in hospitalizations and surgical procedures and therefore significant savings to the U.S.
health care system.
Subject #2 for me is our outlook.
But the good news is that both DaVita and HealthCare Partners have continued to perform according to our plans and expectations perhaps even a little better than that.
And the ultimate 2012 outlook reflects that trend.
In addition we are initiating operating income guidance for 2013 and that's to be in the range of $1.75 billion to $1.9 billion NOI which of course includes the HealthCare Partners contribution and this guidance incorporates the majority of the probabilistic outcomes.
We also have a significant number of headwinds and challenges to face on both sides of our enterprise.
On the dialysis side some of the most significant risk factors that we had to take into account are: a potential 2% cut to Medicare reimbursement due to sequestration; additional risk around additional Medicare reimbursement reductions as there is risk that the physician fixed will take place and will be paid for by across-the-board cuts to other Medicare providers or not across-the-board cuts to other Medicare providers; and then third the uncertainty around our commercial book of business both mix and rates because sadly we continue to lose money on Medicare treatments and have to rely on private insurance to fill that gap.
Despite these formidable risk factors the fundamentals of our core kidney care business remained noteworthy both in terms of excellent and continually improving clinical care strong market position steady volume growth and a history of strong stable cash generation.
So as we look at the intermediate and longer term we're well positioned in this essential therapy and we're eager to get the government's permission to expand our abilities to provide integrated care to more patients and families across America.
We will improve quality and save money once we're unleashed and allowed to do that.
And my third and final topic is an update on the HealthCare Partners combination.
We expect the acquisition to close soon.
The integration process is going according to plan.
We have started to work in partnership with HealthCare Partners management on enhancing their infrastructure to drive new market growth.
This will of course take some time.
And throughout the process we've become ever more convinced of the foundational strengths of the HealthCare Partners business practices in terms of: a improving health demonstrably improving patient health; number -- b providing patient and physician-centric services; and c controlling the long-term health care spend in a highly differentiated way.
Once the combination is completed our leverage ratio will be about 3.7x net debt to EBITDA which is only slightly above our long-stated preferred leverage range of 3.0x to 3.5x although we have also said for a long time the lead periods when we go above or below.
Thus through this combination we will have added tremendous upside onto our shareholder platform without much of a change to our balance sheet.
On a combined enterprise we'll have a very distinctive potential for free cash generation as HCP is highly likely to contribute significant free cash flows in 2013 even after the initial debt cost to finance the deal.
I'll now turn the call over to our interim CFO Jim Hilger.
Thanks Kent.
Non-acquired growth in Q3 was 4.4% when normalized for days of the week.
The U.S.
dialysis revenue per treatment was down about $0.74 from the prior quarter primarily due to a decline in mix in the quarter.
Note that this decline occurred after our mix had remained stable for the first 2 quarters of the year.
I would like to point out that our private pay population continues to grow in absolute terms.
But its growth was outpaced by the growth in government programs such as Medicare Advantage and the VA in the quarter.
U.S.
dialysis patient care cost per treatment was up about $0.20 from the prior quarter which is within the normal quarterly fluctuations.
Dialysis G&amp;A per treatment was down about $0.35 from the prior quarter benefiting from lower professional fee spending and a continued decrease in the DSI integration costs as the DSI integration is almost complete.
Please note that G&amp;A costs generally fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and we anticipate higher G&amp;A expense in the fourth quarter due to increased IT spend and the timing of legal costs.
International losses declined to $8 million in the quarter reflecting some reduced legal and professional fee expenses.
We expect international losses to be in the mid- to high-$30 million in 2012.
Debt expense in the quarter was impacted by the recently completed HCP-related bond offering in late August.
This offering resulted in approximately $9 million in interest expense and related fees in the third quarter.
This HCP-related debt expense reduced our earnings per share by $0.06 below where it otherwise would have been.
And operating cash flow was $367 million in the third quarter.
Now a few additional points on our outlook.
We are updating our 2012 operating income guidance to legacy DaVita to a range of $1.315 billion to $1.33 billion excluding the second quarter legal accrual and certain fourth quarter transaction expenses related to the HCP acquisition.
Furthermore the remainder of -- for the remainder of 2012 we expect HealthCare Partners to contribute $25 million to $30 million per month in operating income once the merger closes.
We are also providing 2013 operating cash flow guidance of $1.35 billion to $1.5 billion.
Next I would like to provide an update on the operating results of HealthCare Partners and some important effects of the HCP acquisition.
HealthCare Partners continues to perform according to its plan delivering strong results in the third quarter reporting an EBITDA of $161 million.
These strong earnings were a result of 2 factors: First seasonal Medicare Advantage revenue true-ups which occur in the third quarter of each year and have historically provided a boost to operating revenues; and two seasonally low utilization.
We do anticipate that HCP will see lower operating income results in the fourth quarter as indicated by our guidance.
We now expect HCP to exceed their 2012 EBITDA earn-out target of $550 million.
And for 2013 we forecast HCP's segment operating income to be in the range of $400 million to $450 million.
Following are a few more details you should consider when modeling the impact of the HCP transaction this year and next.
We anticipate total debt expense in the fourth quarter to be approximately $102 million.
We anticipate our total debt cost in 2013 to be about $425 million.
But this could vary depending on any hedging we might do and the LIBOR impact of unhedged debt.
In addition following the close and subject to the finalization of purchase accounting we anticipate HCP depreciation and amortization expense to be approximately $14 million per month approximately $12 million of which would be amortization of intangibles.
We expect equity compensation for HCP to be approximately $1 million per month.
And the effective tax rate attributed to income for the combined company in 2013 will be in the range of 40% to 41%.
We will have one-time deal costs for the HCP acquisition in the fourth quarter.
We will call out these costs when we report the fourth quarter.
And finally keep in mind that we will be issuing 9.38 million shares of DaVita's stock upon closing of the deal.
And with that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a few things here.
I guess just in terms of the outlook would be interested in just getting your thoughts on sequestration in particular.
I'm familiar with your probabilistic language in terms of how things get baked in from the risk side of the equation.
But I guess I'd be curious just to know how probable or high the probability is in the outlook relative to sequestration just to help us get our arms around that.
I think most of us have assumed in our model that that's close to 100% probability.
So specific to that maybe would like to hear how you're thinking about that on the risk side.
We also ascribe a high probability to something like that happening.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So high -- greater than 50%? Just maybe you could qualitatively help us think about how that's baked into your outlook.
Yes.
Darren it's KT.
I think as you know and significantly above 50%.
We think it's highly likely that something like that will happen relatively soon no matter who's elected.
It is not 100% but we put the number up pretty high and I repeat that either it or something like it will happen as scheduled or sometime soon.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then if I could with Matt in the line we obviously appreciate the detail Jim on the HCP performance in Q3.
I would be curious to know what the year ago Q3 was we're also getting a hand on the seasonality of the business.
So just with a comparison on EBITDA.
And Matt specifically if you can just help us think about the seasonal true-ups and the utilization and sort of what the your order of magnitude was for those in the period.
Sure the utilization in third quarter usually it's better and we had the same phenomena happen last year third quarter.
Also there were true-up based on our risk adjustment factors that's at the time of the year that Medicare CMS pays us and updates the RAP score.
So that exact thing happened also in 2011.
Research Division</strong> And the EBITDA number in '11 in the third quarter against the 161 it was what? I don't think we want to go in the history of that level of detail Darren because there are some so many puts and takes.
But suffice it to say that what's happening this year Q3 Q4 is comparable to what happened last year Q3 Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then just one last thing if I could.
I'd be curious to know if LeAnne's on the line or somebody if you could comment.
We're obviously expecting a pretty important rule-making cycle for dialysis in this next year.
And I just would love to get your thoughts on how robust you think CMS's data set is.
I'm sure you've had a lot of conversation with them.
But specifically as it relate to the orals how do you feel that CMS is sort of prepared to include a thoughtful rule for 2014 on that? Yes let me take a first pass Darren and then LeAnne is on the line and she can amend any of the statements.
The good news is that CMS is working hard because they know their data set is fundamentally flawed and incomplete.
And so they know that and they are doing good work and good analysis and doing good listening to try to figure it out.
The tough reality is it's not easy for them to do that and the dynamics of orals are pretty intense.
And so we continue since we're the leader by far in that arena in terms of providing a comprehensive array of orals to patients we're unique in having the data that shows what well-managed utilization protocols and practices and conventions are that correlate with the best clinical outcomes both for health and for macroeconomics for the health care system.
And we are of course dutifully reporting to those to them every opportunity we get.
So good news is they're working it hard and showing it the respect it deserves as an important and difficult issue.
The bad news is that it doesn't necessarily mean they're going to get it right and if they get it wrong it's really bad for patients.
LeAnne what would you amend? Nothing Kent.
That was well stated.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess on the HCP front there was an announcement of an acquisition during the quarter into a new geography.
Could you comment on how that's going and maybe more generally on how you think about new geographies as you enter them and what makes them attractive? That is the acquisition -- it's ABQ Health in Albuquerque New Mexico.
We consummated that transaction effective September 1.
And we are now in the process of helping them to have all the core competencies that HealthCare Partners has and implement that for that market.
And what I would add Gary is as is been documented in the public realm that's we're in a bit of a spat with one of the other local organizations there and so right now battling it away and impossible for us right now to predict what the outcome what the short-term outcome of that will be.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is it possible for you to give us any color on the spat? No it's pretty typical stuff when you can't agree on a rate between a plan and a provider that then you get into a bit of a tussle.
And that's what's happening so it's pretty normal as those things go.
And also it's an intense exchange and that's why we just have to say we just can't predict how it's going to come out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe a couple of housekeeping items.
I'm not sure if you said it but what percent of commercial -- of total dialysis treatments was it? 10% Gary.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's rounded I assume? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as you are negotiating the commercial book of business are there any updates as it continue to sort of be the same back-and-forth or is it getting more difficult or easier? I would say at this point it's the same which is to say always difficult always a big challenge.
We are holding our breath a bit.
And at the same time there's always some opportunities and it kind of nets out in the last couple of years to a relatively smooth trajectory.
It's pretty misleading in terms of how it feels like to be in the boat.
But there is nothing dramatically different going on right now in terms of the things being harder or easier.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was there any impact from pharmaceuticals on the cost per treatment in the quarter? Did prices go up or down meaningfully in the quarter? Gary not really.
It was pretty flat in the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you could just update us on how you're thinking about the use or I guess the potential use of any of the competing drugs that are out there today? Gary a particular one in mind? Otherwise we might ramble too much.
LLC Research Division</strong> Omantis was the one I had in mind.
Yes that's what I figured.
Well for us as you probably recall and many others recall we made a -- established a serious partnership with Amgen with Epogen which is the gold standard for anemia management.
And so we've got our partner with a very well established proven drug and therapy.
At the same time we're paying a lot of attention to of course what else is going on and we'll be very curious to see exactly what does unfold.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you're not doing any kind of small demo or trial with Omantis are you? No we're not.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'll assume that's me then.
This is Kevin Fischbeck.
A question for you about the guidance for HealthCare Partners for next year.
I know that a lot of times the Medicare Advantage plans talk about the selling season or their benefit design versus their competitors.
I mean I guess when you guys outlined your operating income projections for next year I mean what factors are you looking at to give you comfort with that range for next year? Boy Kevin I had pretty much -- Matt and I would just list off the generic stuff.
We had to take it all into account.
What you think is going to happen with rates what's going to happen in existing markets with non-acquired growth what deals we're going to close all of the various components of the medical loss ratio so how much expense we're going to add to ramp up our ability to go into new markets.
So can you come at us again because I'm worried that we're being so generic we're not helping you? Research Division</strong> Well I guess it's just that we've seen kind of utilization be pretty low for quite some time.
I mean how do you think about utilization going forward and your ability to control that in the context of where your rates are settling out? What kind of assumptions you're making about membership growth and the plans that you guys are aligned with because that's going to help drive your client base as well? Kevin I think as far as our utilization is concerned we are pretty comfortable with our projection.
By October 15 usually we have very good visibility on all the benefits that all the health plans have filed.
So from that point of view we are able to incorporate that to our projection.
And I think on enrollments we have looked at our rate of growth for the past few years and incorporated that into the projection.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you could just remind me you mentioned deals and I think you guys have talked about doing good number of deals each year.
So in your guidance you're assuming a certain number of deals you just assumed that it's prorated overtime? And if you can just remind me kind of how to think about the EBITDA contribution from deals each year? Well I think what we did emphasize in the capital markets is that they didn't flow evenly not like dialysis where we do 20 30 deals a year huge numbers of de novos that HealthCare Partners the new business in terms of deals comes much more in chunks.
And some of them have a lot of potential for post deal ramp up and others don't.
So it's going to be chunkier than what DaVita shareholders are used to.
Having said that we are very confident that in the next few years we will be getting exciting or attractive deals done.
We just right now wouldn't be very good at predicting when.
Is that responsive? Research Division</strong> I thought that the guidance at the capital markets it was something like it's $80 million of deals a year and then chunky bigger deals on top of that.
Is that not the way to think about it? And if it is then what did $80 million of transactions mean from a contribution perspective? Well as to your question about what prior guidance was provided everyone in the room is telling me that no we did not say what you thought you heard.
And then as to the second one sort of generically what does $80 million in deals buy you.
Boy it really differs so radically because sometimes you might get an asset with no earnings but tremendous potential.
Other times you get one with nice healthy earnings at a solid multiple.
And other times well I won't go through more scenarios.
But I think you'll see from the announced transactions that there's deals that get done in sort of the 6 to 7.5 multiple ranges captures a high percentage of transactions that are actually completed with some outside that are on either end.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was getting confused.
Maybe you're assuming that paydown in your worst case scenario maybe that's what I was thinking about.
Okay then last question.
If you gave the international losses for 2012 I didn't hear a 2013.
What are you assuming for 2013 in your international losses guidance? You are right.
We didn't provide -- that it is of course incorporated into our broader guidance and why don't we provide that next quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Weight from Feltl.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question on the guidance for HCP.
Can you confirm does that include the 2 most I guess recent acquisitions ABQ and I think the other one was Arta? Yes it does.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Matt I appreciate the color on the risk coding adjustment that you guys received here in the third quarter.
When you look back historically what kind of a contribution has risk coding done in terms of percent of growth from your kind of revenue PMPM? That the level of detail -- first of all it moves up and down quite a bit.
And second that's not a level of detail that we've provided up to this point.
I don't know that we ever will but certainly aren't doing it now because it does move amount a fair amount.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Thought I'd ask.
And then the other one with ABQ I'm wondering would you be able to provide any sort of break out with the membership? I believe they had about 26 000 in MA members in total maybe 180 000.
Could you break the rest out between commercial and Medicaid at this point? Yes the 26 000 is MA and then they have about another 20 000 Medicare regular fee for service and there is about 60 000 Medicaid and the rest of it commercial book of business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also I missed the explanations in terms of the G&amp;A expenses.
They look like lower than what we are estimating here for the quarter.
Can you provide that again please? Yes G&amp;A expenses in the quarter benefited from lower professional fee spending and a continued decrease in the DSI integration cost.
So it was $0.35 per treatment improvement.
Matt this is Matthew Mazdyasni.
I want to go back to your earlier question about the coding.
I think what is most exciting to our organization and our physicians and caregiver is by appropriately coding and documenting it it really help us to do the disease management the population health the treatment of these patients.
So the fact that we are very good at it I think mostly is because we're looking at it from a clinical point of view and using that information to help us treat the patient more effectively.
So I just wanted to add that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
And last question.
It looks like for the quarter your provision as a percent of the dialysis revenues kind of ticked up a little bit there.
Was there anything that you guys want to point out to that increase? Yes Matt.
That was primarily driven by the changes in bad debt recoveries in the quarter where -- and as a result from changes in the new bad debt the Medicare bad debt rules.
We expect that to be sustained.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on the G&amp;A question to Jim Hilger is this level sustainable is this a good run rate or is there anything where that would push back up? Well we haven't given specific G&amp;A guidance for 2013 and we're not prepared to do that yet as we are still putting together our budgets for next year.
But we do expect G&amp;A expense to increase in the fourth quarter.
And again that's due to IT spend and the timing of legal costs.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And yes the legal cost what is -- is that related to the closing of the deal or something else? These are not related to the transaction costs.
These are other legal costs that relate to compliance and legal spend costs.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
And then going to HCP.
In the press release you guys talk about the $275 million of earn-out payments that will be paid this year and in 2013.
Is it split evenly between the 2 years? And will it be paid upon closing or how should we think about that? It's split evenly across the 2 years and it's based on the completion of the 2012 results and then the 2013 results.
It would be paid shortly thereafter.
I don't know the precise definition of shortly.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then as we all look to incorporate HCP into our models is there a good way Jim to think about modeling the revenues? Do you want us to just use kind of what HCP had provided in the S-4 or I mean is there a more defined or greater level of detail that you can help us or walk us through? I think what was in the S-4 is a good thing to base your modeling on.
May I just remind you that HCP has reported that revenue is not -- does not represent the full amount of medical funds under management it is a higher number.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Good points.
And then...
When we say under management we mean the dollars where we are coordinating the care.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
And then you gave us the amount for amortization per -- D&amp;A per month of $14 million.
Was that the same as what was provided in the capital markets presentation where you gave the guidance of $550 million to $600 million for EBITDA? It was the same that was in the S-4 filing that we did Kevin.
In the -- we did not -- I can't recall the dollar amount we actually put in the capital markets day presentation.
But it is the same as that we had in the S-4 filing and we do expect to update that number once we complete our purchase accounting.
And if you give us a follow-up call we can let you know exactly what we said in the Capital Markets session.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
And then just lastly on the international front you guys have been slowly moving there.
Is there anything any new markets that are looking interesting maybe South/Latin America anything like that? We are looking at 1 or 2 new countries because they look distinctively attractive and we have specific opportunities that are differentially attracted to us.
But I think it's probably in your best interest to keep them quiet until we see if we get something done.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Unfortunately for me I missed about the first 20 minutes so please just refer me to the transcript.
I want to ask something again.
But I just wanted to confirm one thing.
On the $14 million of D&amp;A per month that includes both the modest depreciation that HCP had and all the deal amortization correct? Yes.
It's the depreciation expense which should be similar to what HCP had incurred as well as the amortization of the intangibles.
That does not include goodwill which you do not amortize.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And on the 2013 operating income guidance do both ends of that range include sequestration or is that -- can you hit the top end of the range if sequestration stays in place? Gary the model of course is a combination of our assessment of the probabilities across a wide range of variables not just picking one number for each variable.
So could we -- if theoretically we said we had the full impact of sequestration but did well everyplace else could we hit the high end? I don't -- none of us here on the table know the answer to that specific question because we wouldn't have run that specific model.
There are so many swing factors and we play with lots of different probabilities.
So I'm afraid we can't answer that specific one.
We can just state the obvious that if you do math then sequestration alone has a very big incremental impact.
But it's a little bit -- we'd be a little bit I think tenuous to say that something like that is going to happen and everything else is going to go really well.
That's just not usually how the world works.
There's usually more of a distribution of outcomes across the swing factors.
Research Division</strong> And what's the dollar amount you'd roughly put as a sequestration impact? It's about -- it's 2% of the Medicare revenues.
Medicare represents about half of our dialysis revenue so roughly 1% of our dialysis revenue.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
Last question Kent when you think about 2014 -- I know you just gave '13 guidance I'm already asking about '14 but just conceptually.
When you think about 3 big moving parts for the dialysis business in '14 any potential rebasing? Obviously the oral is coming into the bundle and where the final payment amount will be for that and then obviously some opportunity presumably with EPO going off patent.
When you look at the combination of those 3 factors what's your confidence level that those 3 factors are a net positive to DaVita a neutral or net negative versus '13? That's a very fair question Gary and I think I'll disappoint you in the answer and there's also I would say exchanges into the mix as another big new development potentially or not.
So there's really 4 of them and in each one a pessimist would find comfort in being pessimistic and an optimistic would find some comfort in being optimistic.
And it's probably going to end up being sort of a mix of outcomes across those 4.
So right now we don't have a tilt in any direction other than that much change always feels on a net basis kind of scary when you've got a successful operation that's doing good things for patients and societies.
So maybe the only leaning I could give you is we would prefer not to have so many big swing factors kicking in in 15 months because that's scary stuff.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any new developments on any of those I guess coming out of any DC to any color to add or not at this point? Nothing I think that would help any of us predict the outcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Andrew with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Maybe for a change of pace Kent can you talk a little bit about your latest thoughts on integrated care within the traditional dialysis business? It sounds as though perhaps there's a greater impetus towards an RFP early in 2013 of some size.
Yes it does.
I don't know.
At some point you just worry about losing all credibility.
Although I think we always hedged with sufficient clarity that we're not actually wrong but it does seem that in the next 6 to 9 months they are certainly intending to come out with something.
And they had hopes of doing it in 2012.
That was their own goal.
But I think it would be unfair to criticize them for not hitting it because it's very tricky and the good news is that they're asking a lot of right questions and soliciting a lot of the right input.
So I would be quite surprised if we got through unless the election results or some other external factors throw everything into disarray I'd be very surprised if by 6 months into next year we didn't have an RFP to react to a comment period.
Research Division</strong> Are we wrong to think it could be of significant scale even as much as say 10% of the overall market? No we do not know.
And so someone would have to have better intelligence than us in order to answer that question.
We just don't know how confident they're going to get in the end.
We are still confident that we can give a great clinical and economic gift to patients in America if we're given a fair shot.
But as to how risk-averse they'll be in the end I just can't say.
We of course try to point out the -- as opposed to the risk of something going wrong by trying a new approach like that.
Right now we have the reality of things going wrong for a lot of patients because it doesn't exist.
And so it's really hard for us that our caregivers do deal with all the constraints on providing such a powerful gift.
But I got to go right on back to say they may be too risk-averse to do something anywhere close to that.
We just don't know and I don't know that they've decided yet either.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrea Bici with UBS O'Connor.
Just a couple of questions Kent.
First as you move towards the bundle and you said CMS is working really hard has the discussion come up that one of the orals that will be put into the bundle goes generic in the first quarter of 2014 which is ostensibly kind of the first quarter the bundle is being implemented? Second when you look at the HCP opportunity and look back as you Renal Care Group and a few others really consolidated the dialysis industry how would you characterize almost the running room that HCP has versus the running room DaVita Gambro that you all had probably in the mid-2000 time frame like 2005 or so? Let me answer that second one and I'll turn to LeAnne for the first one regarding early 2014 patent situation.
On the issue of sort of market fragmentation if you will and the potential for a few key players to emerge as leaders to a fair amount of consolidating on the one hand the population health management industry or community that's a more complicated -- it's a more complicated operation compared to a pretty unidimensional kidney care.
Although within kidney care there's a lot of richness at the level of your question there's quite a difference.
Having said that we do believe that the dream of DaVita HealthCare Partners is to do the same thing there that we've done here which is be different enough be credible enough for the capital markets and be aggressive enough to in fact become not just a leader in a few regional markets but a national leader with a differentiated value proposition for patients and for the taxpayer and premium payers.
So over the long term we think that there can be a parallel story even though it's more complicated.
And well the next question is also for LeAnne.
Oh did you want me -- sure.
As you know Roche and Amgen entered into a marketing agreement in '11 to bring their product to market at the end of May in 2014.
I'm not familiar with where they are with respect to actually introducing their commercial product.
Okay.
Also on the bundle how do we think about it the bundle coupled with the orals? Do we think about it as some sort of neutral transition as an uplift to revenue per treatment just based on how the discussions are going or is that too forward of guidance to give? LeAnne do you want to take that one? Sure.
Obviously right now we don't have specific visibility into the answer to that question Andrea.
CMS has not announced their intention specifically whether they are going to rebate the entire bundle or not and they obviously have not yet given specifics around how they're thinking about the oral policy and the introduction of that.
We're having good conversation with CMS.
They understand the magnitude the challenge of introducing these oral drugs and at the same time doing it in a way that allows clinical quality to improve while the economics are reasonable for providers.
So that is certainly something that will be the subject of continuing discussion between the industry and the agency as we move forward in 2013.
Great.
And one last question.
Sorry to be such a pest.
How do you think about labor inflation? If next year is kind of a make-or-break year we'll either be in a recession or the economy could turn around and improve.
And obviously you've done scenario analysis modeling.
And just maybe how do you frame it or how have you been thinking about it? Let me take a first stab at it and then you come back at me if I'm missing the point or if someone else here on the table wants to add.
And by the way LeAnne is in another city so if some of the handoffs are a little awkward that explains most of it at least.
On the labor front 2 things.
If a bunch of the bad stuff happens sequestration using some of our money as part of their physician fix et cetera then we and other health care service providers are going to have to ask our teammates to help absorb some of that burden because it would be quite a blow.
And so that's one factor.
The second factor is the impact of those kinds of measures as a part of broader government policy are pretty difficult to then translate into a forecast for how overall unemployment and wage movements are going to behave.
And apart from industry-specific things like sequestration or dialysis-related cuts to fund part of the physician fix we've got the big just macroeconomic forces where we know that those ripple through into what happens for our people.
And so those are the 2 big influencers of what happens next year.
We of course are hoping that we have a strong year and do kind of merit increases and profit-sharing with our team that we like to do.
But in the face of lots of other bad news that may not be possible.
That is helpful.
And can you maybe provide in your guidance what percent of your cost structure is labor? Just so we know what number to kind of work with as we're incorporating all these scenarios.
I think these people are going to give you a couple of numbers to make sure we get the right definition between field versus corporate or SWBs versus related.
And so why don't we fire that exact number back to you in a couple of minutes? Your next question comes from the line of Whit Mayo from Robert.
Research Division</strong> I guess first just a quick technical question on the earn-out I'm just trying to figure out exactly how that works in 2013.
It doesn't appear that it's in the guidance.
So I guess I'm trying to get an idea of how you accrue that cost do you accrue it at all is it onetime in December and to what extent you'll provide transparency around that.
Yes Whit this is Jim.
The earn-out is actually put on the opening balance sheet as a contingent liability and then each quarter the probability of achievement of that is reassessed.
And if it increases it's run through as an expense.
If it decreases its a negative expense effectively.
That would go through the 2013 financials but there will be a probability of achievement already on the books on the closing financials.
Research Division</strong> So implicitly you are including part of the earn-out based on various probability and assumptions here for 2013? Yes that's right.
We will make an assessment a probabilistic assessment of the likelihood of achieving the earn-out in '12 and '13 as part of our purchase accounting.
And we will record that as where the assets acquired and also a liability which as Jim said may fluctuate and run through the P&amp;L as the actual results are achieved.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I wanted to go back to ABQ for a second.
As you look at that deal sort of in hindsight can HealthCare Partners be successful in that market without Lovelace? And does that dynamic at play or I guess the spat as you call it does that in any way reshape the thinking on entering new markets or the development strategy at all? I'll take this one and then Matthew might want to add.
Number one it does not affect our appetite for new markets.
Number two yes we can be successful without Lovelace and at the same time we have no particular desire to but that's the answer to the question.
And number three I didn't want to try to minimize it when I used the words spat and so when you replay it for me it makes it sound like I had been trying to trivialize it.
It's a very very intense competition going on there.
And so please forgive me if I in any way was interpreted as trying to minimize it.
Within the context of that market within the context of HealthCare Partners overall the EBITDA run rate there was about 2% of total HealthCare Partners EBITDA.
So in that context it's quite tiny but I did not mean to minimize the intensity of the competition in the market.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
I guess I was just trying to get a sense of -- do you think about relationships with payers and providers any differently after dealing with that contractual argument at this point in time? No not at all.
And over HealthCare Partners' 30 years of consistent success there have been other times where they've gotten in battles and standoffs and the rest with different payers.
However while that is a true statement the overall track record and one of the areas where our philosophies blend well is that that's not what we believe in.
What's far more noteworthy than the 2% EBITDA that has these battles going on is the 98% where we worked constructively with payers for years and years and years both sides benefiting and then both sides helping the patients' benefit.
So that's the dominant element of our philosophy and our strategy and it's just unfortunate that Albuquerque is an exception to that general rule.
Matthew would you like to amend that at all? Yes it is truly an exception because when I look at what we are hearing from payers who want to partner with us and really ask us to go through different areas it is very much -- they want to work with us because very much they are interested in partnering with us.
So it is truly an exceptional situation that exists.
When we look at the opportunities on all the other markets the payers are more than interested for us to grow with them.
Research Division</strong> That's fine.
And I guess one last question.
We've covered it a lot but Kent back to your point on looking into 2014 and some of the risk with exchanges I presume you're referring to the unknowns of the small group market and the individual market and whether or not MSP does or does not apply there.
Can you just elaborate a little bit more on how you're thinking about that dynamic and what conversations whether LeAnne's having in DC at this point in time? And the conversation on which topic please? Research Division</strong> Looking at the exchange -- the unknowns around exchanges and whether or not we'll see the small group market compromise and the individual market grow and the questions around whether or not MSP applies to the individual market in the exchanges.
I thought that's what you were referring to when you said there were some risks around the exchanges.
Maybe we're talking about 2 different topics here.
Okay let me take a stab at it because we just got a note that LeAnne's line got cut off.
Otherwise I would have turned to her.
And I'm going to go back to Albuquerque one moment just to dive into the weeds in one way given you asked sort of a broader question about what that suggests or implies for other payers elsewhere.
One of the unusual elements of the Albuquerque situation is Lovelace is a plan in a hospital that are in one organization.
So as opposed to most plans across America that have a real strong interest in improving quality and reducing costs they have a very strong interest in keeping hospital costs up.
And so that made it a lot less surprising for there to be a difficult time in reaching any kind of quick agreement.
We're just feeling really good about what our model does for society and patients as opposed to one that's quite focused on maintaining high hospital admissions and high hospital rates.
LeAnne is back on.
I'll take a cut at your exchange question.
No there's nothing that we know that should create any concern beyond what you had before in this area nor any good news beyond what you would have already heard.
It's just the uncertainty about the actual architectural detail of how they are going to operate.
And the mechanics means that we still don't know if we're going to have lots of new patients with insurance at good rates or we're going to have fewer private patients at good rates.
It's impossible to predict now how many uninsured people will become insured and more attractive from an economic point of view versus how many private pay patients that pay a certain level today will be paying at a lower level then.
And you can create very very feasible scenarios in either direction and right now no one knows the answer.
That's why I listed as the fourth significant swing factor around which we still have a very neutral stance in terms of predicting this.
Does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
No it does.
I guess I was trying to dive a little bit more specifically into the individual market and whether or not -- if it's complicated because MSP doesn't apply there and if you begin to see the small group market compromise over time.
I guess it's a sort of longer-term question that we all sort of have.
Yes.
We think it's -- well I'll let LeAnne go ahead and comment.
Well I do think what Kent -- Kent's remarks were correct.
Yes most of us do not know how this will play out.
A couple of things that we can offer which is that the benchmark plans do cover dialysis so that's a good fact.
It is a fact today that individuals do pay out of pocket and maintain their commercial insurance.
Hopefully within the exchanges that same type of level of policy would be reasonably affordable.
I don't believe we can yet make predictions about what the policies would look like more specifically or who will purchase them.
I think that's just not knowable at this point in time.
And it's certainly the case just to add on that if the government would start taking -- a lot of people around private insurance start taking their insurance away that would be unpopular with a lot of folks in a pretty intense way.
The next question comes from the line of John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dive into the weeds of Albuquerque.
Is the MA a global capitation or is it just a physician capitation at this point? If you're talking about the MA that we have with Lovelace it has been based on a discounted fee for service payment not capitated.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Does it cover the whole spend or just the physician spend at this point? The numbers with ABQ is only the physician spend.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So is it potentially an opportunity to expand that to the global healthcare spend [indiscernible]? That's what we want in every market over time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just to be clear when you ran the economics on that deal you ran it based on the business as is or was it just the physician piece of the spend? Well we never get into any market without the intention and goal of moving to a coordinated care physician where it's either globally capitated or some form of shared savings coordinated care.
So that's always a part of our motivation.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 really clarifications.
One Jim you guys mentioned just with regards to the earn-out the accounting treatment for that.
I just want to confirm that you plan to expense that as a contingent purchase price expense.
I guess that's the accounting treatment that we're used to seeing now for earn-outs.
So essentially you take the $275 million and just divide it by 8 and that's what's in your OI guidance as an expense.
Is that generally speaking the right way? No Darren that's not correct.
What we will do in purchase accounting is estimate the probabilistic outcome of the total earn-out.
So if the total earn-out is $275 million we will record as part of the purchase price some amount that is less than $275 million because there is some probability that they won't achieve the earn-out in '13 or '14.
And then as the earn-out is earned and as things progress quarter-by-quarter we'll reassess that probabilistic outcome and the change in those estimates will then result in either a P&amp;L charge or a reduction of expense in the quarter of the change in estimate.
So I would not expect significant quarterly swings here Darren unless there is a significant change in the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so the starting balance sheet for that contingent liability what will be the number that we should just be thinking about or expect to see when that balance sheet is set up? Well we haven't finalized that yet but my guess is it will be in the range of -- and I'll give you a broad range but just to try to size it $225 million to $275 million somewhere in that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the last thing really this one is for Matt.
Can you give us the average star rating across all of your health plan partners for 2012 and then to the extent you have any visibility on 2013 what you think that average will be? Sure.
The average currently is 3.5.
And as you know the star rating it's not only based on what we do.
HEDIS which is the measurement that we contribute it's part of that star rating.
The rest of it it depends on how the plan does business and how good they are in responding to the patients' calls and lots of other things.
So we are working with certain health plans to see how we can improve upon that.
That is now a bigger item if you will when health plans come and we have a monthly or quarterly meeting with them.
They're paying a lot of attention to it and they are asking us to help them also.
And we believe in the long term it's going to also incentivize and encourage these plans to really work with the groups who really are effective in those measures.
And some of the smaller groups and IPAs unfortunately they are not investing and have not invested in those infrastructure to improve the HEDIS criteria.
Research Division</strong> Any sense for whether you think that will improve from 3.5 next year? I'm just trying to understand if that's possible swing factor for next year.
I can't predict what the number is going to be but I think it's an opportunity as they're finding out that we can help them and others cannot perhaps bring some more enrollment to us.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrea Bici from UBS O'Connor.
Sorry just following up.
Did you get the labor number? Yes.
Labor for dialysis is in the range of 36% to 38% of revenue.
That's fully loaded Andrea.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
All right.
Thank you all very much for your consideration of our enterprise.
And once again we hope you and your families are and continue to be safe in the Northeast.
Thank you.
Take care.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Laportia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the DaVita HealthCare Partners Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Gustafson you may begin your conference.
Thank you Laportia and welcome everyone to our fourth quarter call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations.
And with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Bob Margolis the CEO of Healthcare Partners; Matthew Mazdyasni HealthCare Partners' Executive Vice President and CFO; Jim Hilger our interim CFO of DaVita HealthCare Partners; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent quarterly form on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements are based upon information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during the call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Okay.
Thank you Jim and thanks to all of you out there for your interest in DaVita HealthCare Partners.
Fourth quarter was a momentous one in one important respect in that we completed the acquisition of HealthCare Partners to become our new company.
That's transformational for us and hopefully over time transformational for many markets in American health care.
I'll talk about kidney care a bit then I'll make a couple of quick comments on HealthCare Partners and then talk about our near-term outlook followed by a summary of things to feel good about things to worry about.
So kidney care first.
It was another solid quarter.
We performed well both clinically and operationally.
Let me elaborate on the clinical side.
We will present these outcomes first because that is what comes first.
We are first and foremost a caregiving company which on the kidney care side alone serves approximately 153 000 dialysis patients in the United States.
With respect to adequacy which is essentially how well we're doing in removing toxins from our patients' blood once again we hit the 98% level in terms of a Kt/V greater than 1.2.
With respect to vascular access we set yet another personal best with 71% of our patients having fistulas which is the preferred form of access not only better clinically but saving taxpayers' money.
Third vaccinations this year over 91% of our patients were vaccinated for influenza and pneumonia once again improving health care and reducing taxpayer cost.
And number four is just a moment's reflection.
Since 2009 we have reduced the use of catheters by 43% among our substantial population 1/3 out of all the dialysis patients in America.
Once again that constitutes wonderful clinical improvement wonderful taxpayer savings.
For these and virtually all other clinical measures our patient outcomes compare very favorably to national averages and this quality not only results in healthier patients but drives reductions in hospitalizations surgical procedures and costs.
So good news on the clinical front.
We think that's not only good news for our patients and the taxpayers but it's good news for you.
On to public policy on the kidney care side.
As part of the fiscal cliff negotiations as most of you know Congress mandated a rebasement of part of the bundle for 2014.
It's sort of a bogus way to do it but that is what they did.
This could create a headwind for providers in 2014.
So let's just revisit the core facts surrounding this issue: number one we and the rest of the community still lose money on Medicare; number two many of the dialysis centers in America are in a fragile financial states already including a bunch of ours; number three the legislation did not mandate a savings level therefore a while CMS is directed to rebase a portion of the bundle they have both the authority and the obligation to ensure overall payments are adequate to take care of these human beings and so we'll have to wait and see what they do.
But in order for you to think about some of the facts that they will be thinking about while it is true that pharma utilization particularly ESAs has gone down over the past 2 years it's good to remember the following.
We took a 2% cut going into the bundle because of the changing clinical science and physicians' points of view on ESAs.
We took a 2% cut going in because people knew physicians were going to start prescribing fewer of them and since pharma was about 25% of our costs that meant you would need an 8% cost reduction in pharma to offset that 2% cut on the overall bundle.
Fact number two industry pricing for EPO is up about 15% since the bundle went into effect.
So if you put those 2 things together 15% higher pricing more or less on average and the 2% cut on the total bundle going into it you need pharma utilization reductions of around 23% which is right about what has happened.
So there has been no tick-up on an aggregate basis in the industry.
These are facts that CMS must take into account.
In addition there were other unexpected cuts at least by us included in the bundle because of what happened with the case-mix adjusters outlier payments et cetera and so the net economics were actually worse than what I just summarized.
And of course on top of this is any additional sequestration that will further strain a lot of the centers across the country.
And if they get it wrong the centers will close patient access will be hurt.
So we'll have to wait and see what happens.
Second significant bit of policy news on the kidney care side is that we were excited that CMMI released an RFA for a renal-specific integrated care program.
We have waited for years for the opportunity to give the gift of integrated care to every kidney care patient in America.
Unfortunately based on our current understanding of the terms we would not participate in this program.
The proposal is incomplete first of all.
But second some of the stuff that is there and is definitive is sufficiently negative to make the program unattractive and we'll have to hope that there are some changes.
We are as I said absolutely eager to take our proven capability -- we have proven that we can reduce total cost while simultaneously improving quality in an incredibly transparent fashion.
It is and will be so frustrating if we're not allowed to bring the gift of integrated care to our patients and to our taxpayers on a broader basis and we've done so much and proven so much for so many years in so many ways in so many places so we remain hopeful.
And it will be stunningly frustrating if we're prevented from spreading that good work.
A couple of comments on HealthCare Partners.
I think the short summary is that the performance economically and clinically continues to be solid in their core markets in line with our and presumably your expectations.
On the growth front our pipeline continues to be robust and we closed some tuck-in acquisitions in existing markets in the fourth quarter.
Now on to our near-term outlook.
We are going to maintain our 2013 OI guidance of $1.75 billion to $1.9 billion and this includes on the kidney care side $1.35 billion to $1.45 billion; and on the HealthCare Partners side $400 million to $450 million.
This guidance captures the majority of probabilistic outcomes taking into account all swing factors.
But as we all know these are very dynamic times on multiple dimensions and we all must acknowledge the risk that we could fall outside that range.
I'd also like to take a minute now and wrap up by just stepping back and staring at what one should be worried about in investing in our shares and what one should feel good about.
The most abbreviated summary would just say we think there is big upside and we know there are serious risks.
Things to worry about on the kidney care side.
Of course the longstanding concern of our reliance on commercial rate and mix; and second the often-discussed government investigations and private lawsuit risks which are substantial.
And then to those 2 we need to add government reimbursement risk being incrementally higher these days because of everything going on.
And then on top of that the uncertainty of exchanges.
So these are serious things to be concerned about on the kidney care side.
Things to feel good about on the kidney care side.
First and foremost excellent quality a transparent attitude about it and quality that reduces cost.
But beyond that stable demand growth.
We are well positioned with scale that matters when you're talking about managing a large patient population transparent economics with significant share of government accountability because most of our centers do only one thing.
So these are really good things to feel good about.
On the HealthCare Partners side what should you worry about? Well you should worry about how quickly we can develop a stronger new market capability that by strategic design was not well developed up to this point.
In addition Medicare Advantage has its own reimbursement pressures and because it is a hot space there's a lot of competition so these are significant things to worry about as we do.
On the other hand things to feel good about from a HealthCare Partners point of view is that they are very good at what America needs to have happen in a lot more markets in terms of health-oriented population management pragmatically delivered the physician/caregiver centric model.
In addition as you all know better than we the market opportunity is stunning and that's not even counting potential new markets and things like duals and ACOs.
If you look at the combined enterprise what you can feel good about is a it's already been mentioned twice a high-quality clinical focus and the philosophy of transparency around it; second a very attractive place to work.
Lots of good people because of the substantial potential and because of the goodness of what we do are interested in coming to work for our new combined enterprise; and third our strong and consistent cash flows.
Hopefully you feel good about our historical and critical decision-making with respect to deploying those cash flows.
So that's it for me until Q&amp;A.
I'll turn it over to Jim Hilger now.
Thanks Kent.
First a few more dialysis operating metrics.
Non-acquired growth was 4.4% when normalized for days of the week and our commercial mix remained flat in the quarter.
U.S.
dialysis revenue per treatment was down $1.77 from the prior quarter driven by one a decline in revenues related to immunizations which are seasonally highest in the third quarter when most annual vaccines are given; two small declines in pharma utilization; and three a decline in lab revenues.
Dialysis patient care cost per treatment was down $1.52 from the prior quarter driven primarily by the items I just mentioned.
Dialysis G&amp;A per treatment was up $0.70 from the prior quarter.
As we indicated last quarter we anticipated higher G&amp;A in the fourth quarter due to increased IT spend and the timing of legal costs.
We experienced $12 million in international losses in the fourth quarter reflecting higher transaction-related costs associated with our acquisitions in Poland and Portugal.
International losses for the full year of 2012 were $38 million in line with our prior guidance.
We are continuing to make operating progress internationally and right now we expect operating losses in 2013 will be less than $30 million with a caveat that these could be greater in 2013 if we receive some government tender contracts on which we are bidding.
Please note that if we successfully obtain these contracts we will have to make some upfront infrastructure investments in 2013 but we expect this will lead to solid contributions in 2014 and beyond.
Next a few details on HCP.
Performance was solid in the quarter with operating income of $67 million for the 2 months following the completion of the DaVita HealthCare Partners merger.
We note that this is slightly above our previous guidance for the fourth quarter although $3 million of this is due to amortization expense related to the acquisition being lower than previously expected.
The fourth quarter is typically the weakest quarter of the year.
It is a seasonally higher utilization and lower PMPM revenue.
And as we discussed before while HCP is a fairly steady business you should expect greater quarter-to-quarter operating income volatility than you are used to in the dialysis business.
Now on to the overall enterprise.
Our debt expense was $98 million in the fourth quarter reflecting the completion of the HCP acquisition on November 1 and simultaneous funding of our term loans.
We benefited from an effective tax rate attributable to DaVita HealthCare Partners of 38.5% in the quarter which is below the 40.1% effective tax rate for the full year.
In our earnings release we did call out some onetime items in the quarter including transaction-related expenses refinancing charges and expenses related to legal settlement that had been announced in the second quarter.
The details of these are included in our non-GAAP reconciliations in the back of our press release.
Turning to cash flow.
Operating cash flow was $200 million in the fourth quarter bringing our operating cash flow for the fiscal year 2012 to $1 101 000 000 modestly above our prior guidance range.
2013 operating cash flow guidance remains at $1.35 billion to $1.5 billion.
A few more details as you model the impact of the HCP transaction this year.
We continue to expect our total debt and costs in 2013 to be about $425 million but this could vary depending on any hedging we might do and the LIBOR impact of unhedged debt.
At this time we anticipate HCP amortization expense to be approximately $134 million in 2013.
And the combined company tax rate attributable to DaVita HealthCare Partners for 2013 should be in the range of 39.5% to 40.5%.
And with that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Matt Weight.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kent you spent years working on an integrated care model so I wonder if you could provide a little bit more specifics where the actual shortcomings are that would cause you not to participate.
Yes I'd be happy to.
And you're right.
I've been waiting for and hoping for this for a long time.
Let me list off a couple of the issues: Number one -- and these are not in order of importance.
And again in some instances their language is ambiguous and so we need to clarify on the other hand so it's not so ambiguous.
Their methodology penalizes those people who had better outcomes and therefore lower costs in the past.
And of course for us that's a big problem given how differentiated our quality is in some of the areas.
Number two the actual benchmark methodology they use in how they treat the baseline groups and how they think about mortality appears to be flawed in a way that doesn't work in a population like kidney care.
Third they're talking about rebasing in the very near term.
And given the investment required particularly on a subscale set of pilots like they appear to be contemplating you don't have time to make the investment and get a return before they're talking about rebasing.
And fourth they also have some explicit economic discrimination against the larger organizations which we think makes no philosophical or pragmatic sense and penalizes the physicians that we're associated with and penalizes the patients that we take care of and just doesn't make philosophical sense either.
So there's 4 examples.
Now given the thoughtfulness that they've brought to so much of this for so long we hope that through constructive conversation with them they'll realize that what they have here could get in the way of thousands of human beings getting better care in a totally transparent fashion that would save the taxpayers in a very quantifiable and demonstrable way a lot of money.
So I want to emphasize we're not giving up hope at all.
After 10 years of working on it we're not going to give up that quickly.
But we were a little bummed out by some of the -- well a little.
We were very bummed out by some of the provisions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay it didn't sound like there was going to be a comment period.
So how can I square that with kind of what conversations you guys are having with the CMS? Even if there's not an official comment period they have the right to make adjustments if they decide to and we hope they do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching over a little bit to HCP.
Can you give us an update on the ABQ acquisition and maybe kind of shed some -- what you may have learned with some of the difficulties you've had over there? Yes it's a fair question Matt.
We don't want to go into a lot of detail despite the legitimacy of the question because it isn't that big a deal.
And we've already acknowledged that it exposed the fact that we -- as we had already indicated before it happened knew we had to work on our new market capability.
And so you've got sort of the macro point and there's been a lot of learnings on a micro point basis.
But it's not really in I think our shareholders' best interest that we go into all sorts of detail to talk about an ongoing market bet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
With that said would that slow -- does that impact how you think about future new market acquisitions? Well yes I guess yes and no.
Yes in the sense that we are now having to spend more time there than we thought and that chews up some of the people that would otherwise be working on other new markets because we've had so many people contact us and want to talk to us.
So yes in that sense it changes our deployment of scarce resources.
No in the longer-term sense not one bit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question here I'll jump off.
With the orals being delayed until 2016 I've heard some talk about trying to get some momentum to bring that in potentially a little earlier than 2016.
Anything possible with that? And how disappointed were you with that getting pushed out to 2016? The answer to the second question is we were very disappointed not because of reimbursement because we didn't even know what reimbursement was going to be rather because that we know that we've proven that we can improve the care of our patients and save taxpayers' money even if you held reimbursement equal to cost.
So we were disappointed.
And then as to whether or not some of the stuff going on in D.C.
about changing it will get any traction I think that's anyone's guess.
We don't have any particular insight and we're actually much more focused on all these other things.
Thanks a lot Matt and sorry it doesn't make sense to go into more detail on the Albuquerque situation.
Your next question is from the line of Kevin Ellich.
Research Division</strong> I guess first starting off with HCP.
I was just wondering in the other revenue segment which was $24 million what does that consist of? And then on top of that do you guys still own the Camden Group? Yes this is Matthew Mazdyasni.
That is -- the answer to your second question is yes we do own Camden Group and that revenue -- some of that is in that line plus we have other management fees with the joint venture we have.
So that's all reflected in that line item.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you -- is Camden the majority of that $24 million? Do you want to get to that level of specificity? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what percent of clinics Kent do you think would shut down or close if rebasing goes through as is in 2014? A fair question but impossible to answer without knowing the actual number of rebasing.
It is just literally impossible to answer.
Research Division</strong> Understood okay.
Jim Hilger made a comment on the international discussion saying that you guys are bidding on some more contracts.
Just wondering if you could provide any more color behind that.
What's happening across the globe and part of why we decided to do this -- and I'll hasten to add if I was a better CEO we would have started doing this 6 or 7 years ago.
But one of the reasons we decided to do it now is because there's a lot of governments deciding that they need to guarantee funding for dialysis because the global transparency around health care is leading a lot of people to find out it exists.
And with it you live and without it you die and when it's low quality it's not nearly as good as when it's high quality and so that creates a lot of pressure.
And then as soon as governments realize that there's going to be a fair amount of it and they've got to figure out a way to fund it.
They want to get out of the business of actually providing it for all sorts of reasons including the fact that they're not that good at it and they don't like being accountable for things like that.
And so across the globe you have more governments focused on creating a supply of quality dialysis as a real policy objective.
In the same way that in America 20 and 30 years ago you had similar thoughts and similar actions.
And so in those cases sometimes when government hospitals have been providing a lot of this care they issue outsourcing contract proposals where they will make a decision to transfer a whole bunch of patients from their organization to someone else's.
Those are the kind of things that we're competing on.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then 2 last questions on HCP.
First off the ratio of patient care cost as a percent of total segment net revenues which was 71.1% should we think about that as kind of a medical loss ratio? Is that the right way to think about it? Kevin no because that does not reflect all the institutional revenue and cost because we are showing in some of our markets the net number.
So I wouldn't want that to be confused with the medical loss ratio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay appreciate that just trying to get a better understanding.
And then I think tonight ends the Medicare Advantage I guess disenrollment period.
Are you guys expecting any changes or many changes? We don't.
We usually -- there is that 45-day period that the patients can disenroll but we have not seen since the open enrollment was instituted a few years ago a significant drop.
As a matter fact in some of our markets we -- it's close to none.
Let me just add while we are in conversations with several governments across the globe I wouldn't want anyone getting overly optimistic about the timing.
Often governments separate from our own miss their deadlines so we needed to highlight to you the fact that there might be one in particular that has some significant investment.
But if history is any guide it's more likely that it won't happen.
Next question is from the line of Justin Lake.
Research Division</strong> First Kent you've mentioned the competition in the M&amp;A space for new physician groups is intense.
We've seen them get taken out recently.
Can you give us some more color around what you're seeing out there? And any kind of guidance in terms of what would you be -- what you would think is the most likely outcome from an M&amp;A perspective for yourself on the HCP side? Okay Justin.
I mean it's a very very important and fair question and our answer is going to be relatively worthless that it is so difficult to predict who in fact is going to cross the line and decide to sell as opposed to think about it and then whether or not we're going to win versus some of the other people that are bidding.
So on the one hand if we went to the next 15 18 months without closing another noteworthy transaction I would be sad.
Unfortunately I could end up being sad.
And on the other hand there's no way we're going to close 4 or 5 big deals in 2013.
So I can bracket it in that way to go further is just kind of impossible given the dynamic of the deal process itself.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I can ask the question this way then in terms of the larger deals that are going -- that have taken place there've been a few.
In your mind are the larger deals being done at multiples that are just you can't get to from a reasonable return perspective? And so should we think about maybe the size of the deals being on the smaller side in terms of groups that might be pre-risk or pre-capitation and therefore being smaller deals but with significant upside in terms of the ROI longer term like let's say in Nevada? That's very thoughtful.
Yes it is true that we may do some deals where groups do not currently have a lot of what we're very good at and therefore they'll be less expensive but also take longer to develop.
And so that is one category and I'd be surprised if we don't do something in that category in the next 18 months.
And then as to whether or not multiples on some of the other stuff that's taken place some of the big stuff were out of line I guess maybe the evidence says in our mind it was since we were a part of some of those processes and we stopped bidding before someone else.
And if we thought going higher was a good idea we would've.
Now that's a little bit not fair because at some point the process just ends and maybe you would've gone further so I'm not trying to be cute.
I think it's the classic situation the more you pay the more risk you expose your shareholders to.
And we think we're going to have a lot of quality growth opportunities with lower risk profiles than some of the other stuff that's happened.
And maybe we also just got outperformed so you've got to take that into account too.
So I can't give you a clear answer on whether or not we think those multiples were out of line other than saying that we stopped bidding before other people did and that certainly implies that to some extent that's what we think.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And so if I just take that question to kind of the endpoint which is capital deployment then.
It sounds like the -- maybe investors should expect that the deals that are being done obviously you can't put as much capital to work.
Returns will be great on Nevada type of deals but the dollars that are spent there are less significant.
If that ends up being the case where do you see capital deployment opportunities? Dialysis feels like it's mature.
If it's not in HCP is it share repurchase? And how should we think about your thoughts there? Okay Justin.
You could answer the question that you have asked and so I'll go through it that we every quarter of every year look at our alternatives for cash deployment and our overall capital structure.
And at different times in our history we've bought back a lot of shares we've paid down debt and we've done acquisitions and sometimes we've also just held a fair amount of cash.
And then on the capital structure side as you know our long-term stated goal is to be between 3 and 3.5x in terms of a leverage ratio and there are times that we have gone much higher when we thought that we weren't exposing our shareholders to inappropriate risk for the near term because the probabilities that we were going to quickly move it back in line were exceptionally high.
And there's times that we've gone under and in some cases that was because we wanted to prepare for doing a large deal.
And so we haven't changed one bit in terms of our analytical discipline around thinking about what to do with cash.
If we don't spend -- and this would be sad but if we don't have enough opportunities to spend our cash in growth then we will stare at share repurchase versus debt repayment.
And so much of that will be driven by what we've hedged and what we haven't what's going on with interest rates and what's going on with our share price and markets' expectations for the future visvis ours.
So I know that's a pretty comprehensive yet generic answer and if you want to push back on some part of it feel free.
But otherwise it's sort of same practice we've always had.
Your next question is from the line of Kevin Fischbeck.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe I will push back on that last answer then.
I guess when I think about the cash on the balance sheet right now I mean historically DaVita operated somewhere between $300 million and $500 million cash on the balance sheet.
And when you got above $500 million it kind of felt like you were closer to doing something with that cash in that realm of moving towards share repurchase or debt paydown what have you.
Is that the same way to think about it after HealthCare Partners? Or as a bigger company do you need more cash on the balance sheet to run the business? Or does that not really change your view about...
Yes I think you wouldn't want to use the same number going forward as you've used in the past just because the number is more a question of proportion and our larger size and some of the dynamics around being a new enterprise with a new line of business would also affect that answer.
But directionally we might very well carry more cash in the future than we have in the past just because we're a lot bigger and because on the HealthCare Partners side of the business there might be some very serious deals on the table in the years to come.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
The counterargument could be you're more diversified and therefore the risk of having a situation where you had a cash flow situation in a given quarter or year would be less as well.
You might not need to change that but it sounds like it's partly just being a bigger company but partly also flexibility and the opportunity set that you see.
Is that correct? Your point is very well taken and then you've got to factor that -- in addition to what you just said you need to factor in the capital structure at the time because if our leverage ratio is unusually low then we might be even more comfortable with having less cash.
If our leverage ratio is relatively high then it goes the other way.
I already referred to sort of the outlook on near-term scale acquisitions and then of course also just our expectation of what's going on in the debt markets.
So it's -- that's why we revisit it so holistically every 3 to 6 months because there's so many variables to take into account in order that we get you guys the right risk-reward relationship on that cash.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking about the quarter and the guidance.
I mean obviously it's early in the year so that could explain the rationale for kind of keeping the guidance where it is.
But given how good the quarter was versus your early expectations on it why isn't there more flow-through into the 2013 numbers? Okay.
Say that question one more time so I try to [indiscernible] Research Division</strong>.
Well you exceeded both the dialysis operating income and the physician operating income and -- but you kept the outlook for 2013 intact so why wasn't the better Q4 run rate annualized into the following year? Yes I guess a little bit like if your quarterback has a really good game and completes a very high percentage of their passes and doesn't have any interceptions you applaud them because the game was the game and you won but you don't necessarily predict that for the next game or for the rest of the season.
The fact is both enterprises operated really well in 2012.
And part of that was good scale and hard work and there's always an element of luck in tailwinds and headwinds.
And so I think we had a really good game and we're proud of it.
And it goes in the books and the cash goes in the bank.
And the clinical outcomes go to our patients and the savings go to the taxpayer.
And 2013 is a new game and we're playing against some formidable opponents.
And we've got to wait and see how we do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- but there's nothing unusual in that Q4 number that would argue against you completing 70% of your passes next year per se? I don't have a good answer to that.
I'll give other people a moment to think.
What I would say to you is that even if the answer is no there was nothing unusual nonetheless extrapolation from a strong year is a dangerous thing to do.
Research Division</strong> I guess there were 2 things that you guys mentioned in your comments.
I don't know if they have any impact on this.
I guess you sold your -- obviously you are selling your home infusion.
I don't think that deal has closed yet.
Does that have any impact on operating income versus your original guidance? We closed it.
That is a good thing for shareholders basically got our money back mas o menos a little and it doesn't have any impact on our income.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think you mentioned that D&amp;A came in $3 million lower than what you were thinking.
I mean I guess you guys gave a -- you gave the guidance for D&amp;A but does that -- wouldn't that flow through to 2013 as another $20 million tailwind to the number annualized? Let me just amend my HomeChoice comment.
It would have no material impact on our operating income very very tiny.
On your other question I'll turn that over to Jim.
The D&amp;A impact in -- against what we have previously guided to is more in the range of $12 million to $15 million not $20 million.
And that is -- that adjustment was in the range of our guidance although of course it moves us -- our point estimate then would move within that range because of that but other factors could play against it.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then last last question -- or maybe 2 questions on this.
I think Kent you talked about the CMS demo as being subscale and I guess wanted to understand what that comment was referring to.
I guess it looked like there was a minimum of 500 patients and I guess in a geographic region the way CMS is defining it here what is a reasonable population to think of if you were to participate in a region and what number do you think that needs to be to be a "scale" demonstration? Well there's 2 different issues there.
One is what's minimum scale.
And the second is what is the scale that we think we could handle and dramatically improve clinical care a lot of people get and the economic performance that the taxpayer gets.
So those are 2 very different answers.
But they're talking about 10 to 15 markets and the way they've defined market is such that if you assume -- if we decided to do this which again right now we wouldn't and if we were granted 4 of them out of the 15 so this is all just setting up a scenario that we probably couldn't do more than 6 000 or 7 000 patients which is a lot better than 600 but frustrating given we could do so much more.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that -- but that's still not the -- I guess when you say scale you talked about the scale necessary to recoup the investments that you'd be making after the 3-year kind of rebasing of things.
Is there a size that you have in mind where it has to be x or y before you get to that tipping point? Given their current provision the -- it would take infinite scale because it looks like the model doesn't really work.
So we can't -- until there's some clarification and unless there's some changes there may not be enough patients in America to reach the scale required to get a return.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question I think you just answered it.
But when I was reading that 10 to 15 participants I wasn't sure whether they meant markets or whether they meant actual participants whether DaVita would be one participant or 5 markets in that analysis.
Your understanding is that it would be markets and that DaVita can be multiple markets or multiple participants in that 10 to 15? Exactly.
Your next question is from the line of Matt Borsch.
Research Division</strong> This is Brian Zimmerman in for Matt.
Now that 2014 is drawing near can you give us a refresher on how coverage expansion under health care reform will affect your top and bottom lines from a directional standpoint? I'll comment on it for kidney care and then I'll ask Bob or Matthew to comment on it for HealthCare Partners.
On the kidney care side it's impossible to know right now and there's probably more downside than upside.
That the variables are how many patients that we currently take care of or would otherwise take care of at private rates that are higher than what the exchange will reimburse will move into exchanges because each one of those who does is of course an incremental negative versus how many people are currently uninsured and/or in some form of reimbursement like Medicaid or other special program who move into being covered by private insurance and are at higher rates.
And so it's a question of volume moving each direction and the average differential rate.
And of course our point of view is we don't want to be doing dialysis for lower rates in the exchanges than we do for our current private payers.
Some of them will want us to do that at a lower rate and from our point of view there'd be no reason to.
So it's going to be quite the tussle for everyone.
And so on the kidney care side those are the elements of the equation and you'll have to plug in your own assumptions.
Our current range of estimates is way too wide to be useful to you.
You'd just get frustrated if we shared it.
I'll now turn it to Bob.
I think on the HealthCare Partners side I can reflect a lot of the same uncertainty you just heard from Kent.
Some of the variables are that we believe that as an organization that wants to serve all of the members of our communities that it's a big opportunity to learn how to in a high-quality manner and with some margin be able to serve folks that don't have insurance.
There'll be millions more under Medicaid.
As you well know under health reform this is outside the exchange but we are honing our capabilities in -- by acquiring affiliate networks as we've announced that have some experience in successfully managing the Medicaid population.
So we think that's a bit of an upside opportunity though it's yet to be determined whether that will have any margin.
On the exchange piece it's very much the same unknowns.
The rates have not been defined as to how the exchange will contract with organizations and at what rates be they Medicare or more towards Medicaid.
If there are newly insured patients at reasonable reimbursement it could be a nice upside.
On the other hand if a lot of employers choose to move their employees from fully insured products into the exchange and drop the employer-based benefits that could be a negative drag if the rates don't support good care.
So I think for modeling it's still way too early to make a firm determination.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I know you guys mentioned the exchange rates are pretty wide.
But I guess we're just trying to make some assumptions around that would you say that they're going to be closer towards commercial rates or more towards Medicare-type rates on the dialysis side? If the government steps into the world of mandating them then they're going to be closer to Medicare.
It doesn't appear likely that that's going to happen.
But if the government mandates premiums it creates some real derivative pressure on anybody who's subject to that.
And then you move to predicting what other providers will do.
And I don't think a lot of providers in the kidney care area are going to want to offer lower private rates to the exchanges except to the extent that they can because you've got some people at lower rates now that are moving in and therefore you could offer a lower private rate because the net keeps you whole.
In a world where the 10% of our patients that are private subsidize the 90% that are in the government there's very little room for providers to move any provider.
So I always have to add that you can never predict for sure what the government will do and what other kidney care providers will do.
But everybody operates within the same economic reality and so you're going to have payers trying to push for lower rates and providers pushing back and it's pretty hard to say who's going to win.
And Bob on HCP? It's very much the same.
As we just said rates are you've seen one exchange you've seen one exchange.
Unfortunately as you well know the government -- the federal government punted the essential benefit package back to the states so every state and every exchange is defining whether they're going to have a rich benefit package and how they balance that against the affordability requirement of the Affordable Care Act.
And as we all know about half the states are waiting for the federal government to set up the exchange so we don't have any idea how that will get the timing of that and the effectiveness of it and the membership within the exchange.
So I think you can take to the bank at the moment that there's so much uncertainty that you can't take much to the bank.
Your next question is from the line of Darren Lehrich.
Research Division</strong> I did have some questions on HCP.
And given that this is our first opportunity to see how you're going to be reporting some of the business metrics there I guess I just want to understand exactly what we'll be seeing here.
And so the disclosure around capitated membership first I guess the question would be can you just maybe clarify for us what is there? I mean it seems like some of the acquisitions that had tens of thousands patients in the fourth quarter are included in that number.
So should we be thinking about those patients on a path-to-risk basis? And maybe can you just help us think about the sort of the scope and scale of HCP in relation to the patient numbers we're getting now? Darren could you please repeat your question so we don't ramble all over? Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
So I think you've given us in some of the S-4 filings enrollment numbers for HCP.
And what we have here in the December period was 723 999 capitated members.
But there were I don't know I think 180 000 patients in ABQ.
In Arta they were -- there was another number.
So I'm just trying to foot to the membership numbers just to understand what we're going to get on a quarterly basis and then how some of these other patients fit in? I hate to say it but it's a little bit complicated for us to report because each member is different.
For example in some of our commercial revenues or membership we have point-of-services members that we're not capitated for it.
What we try to do here we tried to only report the members that we are either receiving global cap or we're managing global capitation for it.
So it does not include as far as that number is concerned any of our fee-for-service members or patients and any members that we have that we are either not receiving global capitation for it or managing global capitation.
Just to give you an example in Nevada we have some commercial members that they were based on professional capitation.
So that's what we reported here at this time.
And then we separated our revenue by sources because Medicaid member capitation is very different from a Medicare Advantage very different from a commercial.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's exactly what I thought.
I just -- I wanted to be perfectly clear about this it will obviously be in your press releases going forward.
So if we think about just the patients that fall outside of this enrollment metric I mean can you maybe size that for us and give us a sense for the numbers maybe broadly speaking that might be on a path to some global cap? We'll think about that Darren.
We're still noodling over what are the most useful set of metrics to provide to help you guys assess risk and reward and performance so it's a good thought.
We're playing with it.
The math the shareholder math is dominated by the global population numbers which is why we've put that out there.
And how we refine that or add to it gets tricky because some of the numbers could be quite misleading as they go up or down in terms of any impact on your equation.
So let's just keep discussing it every quarter and we'll try to get to the right place.
Research Division</strong> Understood okay.
So just on the point of membership I think a prior question had asked about the 45-day period.
I'm actually curious just to know what your health plan partners did experience in terms of open enrollment.
Can you just maybe comment broadly on membership growth in the legacy business? Hold 1 sec just so we get our act together in terms of what we've already disclosed and what we haven't.
So given this is our first time we want to make sure we don't confuse anyone.
Your next question is from the line of Gary Lieberman.
Just on the last question Darren we haven't made any disclosure to this point on what's happened so far in January and this year and we're not in a position to do so.
Go ahead Gary.
Sorry about that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just ask a couple more questions on HCP.
So in the second quarter of 2012 I think the reported member number was 620 000.
Is that a comparable number to the 600 -- to the 724 000 that was reported this quarter? That's accurate yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so is most of that increase from acquisition? Or could you tell us the percentage of increase that was from acquisition versus organic growth? I think most of it was from acquisition and that's why we're also showing you member months because for example we had an acquisition in southern California effective September 1 so the member months for that acquisition is only for 4 months during 2012 versus our legacy member that has 12 months.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if we're thinking about member months on a -- sort of on a run-rate basis quarterly is there a way you can sort of give us a range of kind of the number we should be thinking about? Is it sort of 2.1 million or 2.2 million? I think as Kent said we'll continue thinking about how we can best report all of our membership numbers that would be useful to all of you.
Gary the member months in there represent 2 months because that's the time period during which this has been a combined entity and this reporting reflects the November December time period.
So hopefully that helps you pro forma that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's useful.
And then I guess just going back to the guidance of the $400 million to $450 million for HealthCare Partners maybe you've said this before.
Does that assume some number of acquisitions? Or does that assume no acquisitions? We do incorporate our acquisition expectations into our forecasts.
And of course it's always a prediction that has a wide range of potential outcomes below or above what we predict.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then and you may have answered some of this with a previous question but given that HealthCare Partners did $67 million of EBIT in the quarter combined with the statement that fourth quarter is usually a light quarter it's already on a run rate of over $400 million of EBIT.
So is that a fair way to look at it? And so are you guys just being conservative? Or is there something else that we should be taking into consideration? Well I'll repeat what I've said and then any of my partners here might want to add to it.
2012 was an outstanding operating year for both companies.
Anybody want to add anything? I would just say that it's an operating income not an EBITDA range of $400 million to $450 million Gary.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry if I misstated that.
Okay.
And then I guess moving on to a couple of kidney care questions.
Did you guys have any EPO price increase on the beginning of January as you typically do? I don't know that we've disclosed anything about what's going on with EPO pricing.
So let us think about that and you can ask again next quarter.
But up to this point we have not disclosed anything.
And to everyone please do share your thoughts with Jim Gustafson about what other quarterly reporting you think we should add in order to be useful.
Your next question is from the line of Ben Andrew.
Research Division</strong> First question for me is has there been any directional change in behavior or magnitude of change on the part of the commercial payers given some of the changing backdrops? Or is this more anticipatory commentary? I think on both sides we're experiencing the normal intense debates and discussions with commercial payers about our rates and other terms that it's always been intense.
It will always be intense and there's nothing dramatically different.
Maybe on the margin you say exchanges -- exchanges create more conversations but the intensity is the same as it always has been and always will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe a question on HCP more generally.
Have you noticed a difference in the behavior pattern aside from maybe what's going on in Albuquerque with the different constituents that HCP interacts with after the execution of the transaction? Has there been sort of a change in tone or behavior pattern that is noticeable or meaningful? I'll try to answer that.
We've not seen anything that's dramatic.
I think that as you might expect folks noticed that this transaction was large and that our historical financials were now transparent.
But we deal primarily or often with plans and with big systems that are also for-profit.
So to them that's not a giant change.
And our conversations with physicians with other constituents have been pretty much on line with what we had before.
So pretty much everyone is aware that we're part of a bigger enterprise that we have a great opportunity to transform American health care in a positive view and we're pushing forward with that conversation and that mission in all these discussions and I think folks view us now as a more larger and more credible partner in that transformation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Kent just briefly in terms of the ACO project is there a time frame that you have in mind where perhaps you could influence and lead to a change in what that structure of the program might look like? Is that 6 months 3 months another 3 years? I mean how do you think about that internally? I think the time frame is -- a fair question.
The time frame is quite short.
They're interested in feedback from not just us but from the community very quickly and they may change nothing and they may change a lot.
They have total freedom.
But I think it's all going to happen relatively quickly so it's not years it's months.
Research Division</strong> At this point it appears both LDOs don't have a lot of interest in the program.
Would you suggest that they would fail to the extent that that doesn't change? I -- you'd have to ask them of course but even if you just get a couple small players to do it you're really putting at risk having this proven technology established and standardized in the way that it could benefit everyone.
So I think from a policy point of view it would be hugely disappointing given everyone's objective is to improve the care and reduce the cost.
So -- but who knows they may be just fine if 2 LDOs don't do anything.
And they get some smaller players to do smaller things in some parts of the country maybe they would be happy with that.
I think a lot of other people would be really disappointed but I think you'd just have to ask them.
Your next question is from the line of Gary Taylor.
Research Division</strong> I have a few quick ones.
First I think at least 2 of the last 3 quarters you've given us kind of a full quarter pro forma HCP EBITDA figure.
Would you provide that for the fourth quarter? Can you repeat the question? Research Division</strong> Do you have a fourth quarter 2012 HCP EBITDA figure for the full 3 months? We don't have that in front of us.
I'd have to -- I don't know if we've disclosed it before.
If we have I can give it to you later.
We haven't disclosed it but there were a number of distinct charges in the fourth quarter that make that number difficult to be comparable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I know we've had it at least 2 of the last 3 quarters but I'll move on.
Another question I know the L.A.
Times last week reported that HCP was applying for limited Knox-Keene license in California.
I presume there'd be some increased capital requirements it looks like you could easily handle.
But I have 2 questions.
One would this in any way make your California business subject to the minimum MLR ratios? And two why are you pursuing that limited license? Great question.
We as we previously reported are a Pioneer ACO in 3 states including California.
We are in the second year of the Pioneer ACO.
According to the rules of the Pioneer ACO we can if we're successful in the first 2 years and it makes economic sense apply for full global capitation for that capitated -- for that population that's in that ACO.
According to the state in order to take full capitation including institutional we have to apply and obtain a limited Knox-Keene license.
Now let me just describe what we call limited Knox-Keene.
I think it's called a Knox-Keene with certain limitations it's not officially called that.
It's a requirement by the state but it does not put us in the position where we are a fully licensed insurer.
We're not in the position nor do we plan to be in the position to market and sell directly to employers.
It's just a requirement of the movement to the Pioneer ACO.
At the same time you have seen that we have all of this global capitation including some that's under management as opposed to direct and we would have the opportunity in the Knox-Keene should we choose to take that direct global capitation in California instead of just under management.
So those are 2 reasons that the Knox-Keene makes good sense.
There are capital requirements but those are minimal and actually no greater than the reserves that we have in place for this managed global capitation or global risk that we manage now.
Let me try to also answer the first part of your question.
Would that make us subject to MLR? That's not the case because we're not receiving premium from payers or employers.
We are -- it's a plan-to-plan so we as a limited Knox-Keene will be contracting with full Knox-Keene plans who are receiving.
So those entities are subject to MLR.
We are not because we're not directly receiving from the payer with exception of Pioneer ACO.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And would you anticipate pursuing any other limited license in other states you operate in as part of the Pioneer ACO or for other reasons? Is that foreseeable? Only if it makes sense because of the market requirements in order to produce the kind of global management that we think benefits patients and coordinates care.
At this point we do not intend to become an insurance company if that's the question that you're asking.
Also the other 2 markets that we have Pioneer ACO which is Nevada and Florida do not require any special license because these are Medicare.
So it is allowable without any special license to receive global capitation from CMMI which is part of CMS.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
Appreciate it.
Last question is for Kent.
My actual question is I'm not sure if you saw it you probably did this morning but Affymax had put out a release today about Fresenius I guess discontinuing the -- I guess the demonstration they were doing and they cited -- Fresenius in a letter to physicians had cited some potential allergic reactions that patients were having.
The question I have is if this proves to be problematic for AFFY and we have less ESA price competition in the future does that have any implications for your existing 7-year contract with Amgen? This is news to me.
And so please take that into account as I grope for a response.
If AFFY is less credible I don't know that that implies less credible in the near term I don't know that that implies anything for us.
As we've said many times the reason we did the 7-year partnership with Amgen is -- was heavily influenced by the fact that it's the gold standard of ESAs in the world.
And so I can't think of anything that would change in anything that we've said.
But I know so little I only know what you just told me that I have to reserve the right to change that answer in the future.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I think some analysts have speculated there was perhaps some sort of price guarantees in the Amgen contract and I thought there was some commentary from a conference earlier this year where you had stated that that equivocally was not the case.
But I didn't presume this would change anything.
I don't know if you'd care to comment on that or just let it go.
To the best of my knowledge everything I've said on the subject has been true.
Whatever I said I think still applies.
I couldn't tell exactly what you were saying which is why I'm wording my sentence...
Research Division</strong> No I think you're -- I think everything you've said is consistent so I was just giving you a chance to elaborate on that but I get it.
I appreciate it.
Thanks a lot.
And let me break in with one thing Gary.
I think we can report that normalized for nonrecurring deal items for HealthCare Partners the full year EBITDA was $583 million for 2012.
So we're comfortable disclosing that.
Your next question is from the line of John Ransom.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> As I think about you going into new markets what are the dynamics now versus maybe a couple of years ago? Are hospitals in particular already rounding up the big physician groups and trying to engineer these risk-sharing models? Is there less oxygen in the room? And how do you think about the various players in the let's say the top 100 markets hospitals versus insurance companies? They seem to be taking the lead.
And how is the role for HealthCare Partners different the same versus a couple of years ago when this was kind of novel? Well let me take a shot at it.
It's the kind of question that we -- provokes a lot of strategic discussion internally.
As you aptly stated hospitals are the center of the universe in a lot of communities for the physician networks.
Hospitals in our view and I don't think this is in all cases but in many cases have chosen to employ or buy practices of a lot of physicians especially specialists that would provide the high reimbursement procedures.
And in our view in most cases the hospital consolidation has caused increases which as you may have read caused a bunch of inquiries as to whether it's appropriate.
So that is going on and reduces the number of physicians in certain communities.
Certain health plans most notably Optum United as well as Humana have announced deals and so on.
So competition is a reality but the facts of the matter are that it's a vast country.
Most of health care in America is in the atomized or fragmented fee-for-service individual and small group practice.
There are a lot of practices both large and small that don't see linking up with a hospital and/or a health plan as in their best strategic interest.
And as we've previously described our pipeline is strong.
And so it's a big America and I don't think that the oxygen has been sucked out of the room as you say.
But you're right there's competition and as Kent mentioned earlier there may be price competition that we think is not in our best interest and some acquisitions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm either -- again we're just still learning basic things.
But let's say for example that the Medicare Advantage rates in your market next year are down 6.2% or something.
Is it a straight line? I know it's not a straight line but how should we extrapolate the MA rates to the rates that you get? Or is it just straight one for one and it is a straight line and you've got to find ways to offset it? The parity that is demanded under the Medicare Advantage changes that was passed a few years ago is baked into all of our analyses and assumptions and varies as you know state to state.
But it is specifically mitigated in some cases and in many cases by the fact that benefits are extremely rich relative to fee-for-service Medicare in all of the markets that we're currently in so there's some shift in benefits that reduces the impact of those direct cuts in other words making the benefits a little bit less rich for the patient but still significantly rich enough to encourage patients to choose Medicare Advantage.
There's the risk adjustment which is based on accurate and good documentation that is a significant and has been a significant offset of the Medicare cost rebasing.
And last of all there's the opportunity to significantly continue to improve clinical performance and reduce the cost of the care that we deliver.
So while we think we do it quite well we know there's still significant variation in the results across networks and certainly across America.
So those are headwinds there's no doubt that's been told in many of these conferences up until now.
But there are offsetting factors.
And the last one which I should mention of course is the quality ratings the star ratings of the health plan.
While the star rating is at the health plan level not at the HealthCare Partners level certainly in markets where we're a significant portion of that health plan our quality ratings are usually higher than their network average and help bring up their star rating and therefore their reimbursement.
And actually it's another reason that health plans like working with us and potentially helping to consolidate their networks with HealthCare Partners and DaVita to improve their quality ratings.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you still think about something in the neighborhood of a 40% apples-to-apples difference between what you can do and what an unmanaged population looks like? I remember that number maybe it was hospital-based but is that -- how do you think about today the apples-to-apples cost differences between identical populations? I don't [indiscernible] specific cost of care but -- because I don't have that off the top of my head.
But you're right in the Medicare Advantage space our utilization of hospital days have been traditionally about 40% less than national average.
Your next question is from the line of Lisa Crye [ph].
Just going back to the discussion around exchange rates.
One thing that's just confused me about the discussion here is historically insurance companies have been competing against one another for big contracts from employers.
And under the exchanges they're simply going to be competing with each other albeit on a different type of playing field but still it's a similar head-to-head competition nonetheless.
So in my view I think the only thing that really gives them more leverage is as you said the government does get involved in terms of setting premiums et cetera.
But in the absence of that do you think that just the structure of the exchanges somehow gives insurance companies more leverage with health care providers like hospitals like dialysis clinics? I just figure it's really that change in negotiating power that can potentially change rates.
I think if you posit that plan can offer a provider incremental volume because there is increased market fluidity prompted by the exchanges then I think there is linear logic to support the notion that a payer would pick up some new leverage.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then just one second question.
Just looking at the health care business the dollars under management that you reported of $614 million I just want to make sure I'm comparing figures sort of apples to apples.
It looks like it was down on what you reported as a 2011 full year figure.
Could you just comment on that? I have the 2011 but this is obviously -- the 2 months you're referring to you're extrapolating from the 2 months? Yes it was just a little bit unclear whether it was sort of -- whether it was just a figure for 2 months or whether it could be compared on a full year basis? I'm sorry so that's only for 2 months.
That number is only for 2 months.
Your next question is from the line of Whit Mayo.
Research Division</strong> Kent this question really relates to the comments you made earlier on exchanges.
Do you have a sense of what percent of your dialysis commercial patients are actually small group? I just have to believe that it's relatively small.
We do know that number.
We've never disclosed it.
So why don't you let us think about whether or not we would disclose it over the next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That might just be helpful to sort of help us size up what any exposure could be if obviously employers in the small group market did dump their employees but I think it is small.
The other question that I had is I guess for Bob.
Looking back at 2012 and recognizing that there's a lot of moving pieces here what do you think that the organic revenue and EBITDA growth was? I'm just trying to get a sense of really what the business growth profile is.
I know it's kind of a complicated question but would be helpful.
Could you repeat the question please? Research Division</strong> Yes I guess if you just made a guess and said looking back at 2012 we take out some of the acquisitions take out some of the outlier items what the organic revenue and EBITDA growth would've been.
Yes that -- okay.
No we cannot answer that now.
Should we think about answering that in the future is a good question.
It gets to be pretty seriously definitional however because tuck-in acquisitions are really an important part of our HealthCare Partners model and we almost think of that as organic growth because so much of it is -- might be IPAs with whom we worked for 5 years or practices with whom we worked for 5 years et cetera et cetera.
So it's a little different than our kidney care model.
Although even the kidney care de novos to some extent are very linked to our existing positions in many markets which is why we provide non-acquired growth that combines both classic same-store growth with de novo growth as opposed to reporting same-store by itself because often we cannibalize our same-store growth in order to secure greater overall market positioning.
So I don't know if we can come up with a metric there that's going to work for you but let us think about it because it's a very fair question.
Just to add to that I think this growth will become interesting because we are not only experiencing the groups who are talking to us we are also working with health plans who want us to go to new markets and that's not going to be something that we are acquiring.
We're just going to new markets and growing that way too.
So this whole issue of organic versus growth is going to get even more complicated.
Research Division</strong> Yes I understand.
And I guess one last one here.
I think if I recall there's been some historical discrimination with the Medicare Advantage that I think a lot of the dialysis patients cannot be enrolled in an MA plan if they already have ESRD.
And I guess I'm just wondering if there's any movement from an advocacy perspective to try to alter some of that discrimination I know if LeAnne's around -- so just kind of curious where that stands.
Yes the fact is it's a historical artifact when HMOs were invented and people were in some cases legitimately very concerned about caregivers and owners of HMO plans withholding care because of that concern dialysis patients were excluded from signing up for a plan in order to protect them from their own selection if they already had had kidney failure.
So that's the historical logic for it.
Now it is quite the ridiculous provision that actually hurts these patients because often in our work with Medicare Advantage plans we're able to provide additional services consistent with the Medicare Advantage plan offering additional services in many other areas most prominently by working with people like our HealthCare Partners team in order to do a lot of extra stuff and save in total cost.
And so it's gone from something that was to protect the patient to something that hurts thousands of patients.
Having said that we've had so many other policy fish to fry the last several years that we've never mounted and the patients have never mounted a serious attack on this quite ridiculous discriminatory -- uniquely discriminatory provision.
And so maybe that's something that we'll work on in the next year or 2 or 3 because there really is terrible terrible policy.
And your next question is from the line of Kevin Ellich.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go back to Gary's comment or question on AFFY.
It sounds like Fresenius actually just paused the trial they didn't discontinue it.
But nonetheless have you guys given any consideration in using other ESAs as an option Kent? The answer to the question you asked is yes we have given a lot of consideration to this and we'll continue to.
But up to this point we're very happy with the quality of our partnership with Amgen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last thing.
Is there any update on the CFO position? I know Jim is still interim.
We like working with him but just wondering if there was any movement on that front.
Jim is still interim and the search process is continuing.
But given how he's been willing to tolerate working extra hours we're picking up some nice P&amp;L savings.
There are no further questions at this time.
All right.
Well I thank everybody for your endurance for all of you who are still out there.
We're going to go back and root for not only Peyton Manning but also Aaron Rodgers.
And we'll work hard for you and talk to you again in 3 months.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Sharon and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the DaVita HealthCare Partners Q1 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Jim Gustafson you may begin your conference.
Thank you Sharon and welcome everyone to our First Quarter Conference Call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations.
And with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Bob Margolis the CEO of HealthCare Partners; Matthew Mazdyasni HealthCare Partners' Executive Vice President and CFO; Jim Hilger our Interim CFO; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Jim and welcome everyone to a relatively sober quarterly call.
I'll first cover kidney care then HCP and I [ph] discuss their near-term and longer-term outlook.
First with respect to kidney care from a business performance point of view another solid quarter both clinically and operationally [indiscernible] loss contingency reserve which of course I'll discuss in a bit.
We are first and foremost a caregiving company serving approximately 153 000 kidney care patients [ph] [indiscernible].
[Technical Difficulty] This is Jim Gustafson again.
My understanding is that you have -- were able to hear the disclosures statement I was making at the beginning.
And so with that understanding I would like to turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Okay.
Thanks Jim and I'm going to assume that nobody heard anything I said clearly.
So I will start from the top.
First this is relatively a sober quarterly call somewhat symbolic that we had telephone problems.
From a business point of view kidney care performed fine in the quarter both clinically and operationally.
I will discuss the loss contingency reserve a little bit later as well as normal covering clinical outcomes and a public policy update before I talk about HealthCare Partners and then ultimately our outlook.
We will continue to present our clinical outcomes first because that is what comes first.
We now serve approximately 1 out of every 3 dialysis patients in America as well as about 800 000 population health members to HealthCare Partners.
On the kidney care side first with respect to adequacy which is essentially how well we're doing at removing toxins from our patients' blood.
This quarter 98% of our hemodialysis patients had a Kt/V greater than 1.2.
Second with respect to vascular access 71% of our patients have fistulas which is the preferred form of vascular access.
For these and virtually all other clinical measures including nutritional status vaccinations et cetera our patient outcomes compare very favorably with national averages.
This quality care not only results in healthier people but also drives reductions in hospitalizations and surgical procedures and therefore drives significant savings to the U.S.
health care system.
Now on to the issue of the reserve.
This is regarding the 2 physician relationship investigations that we've previously disclosed now for about 3 years in total.
We took a reserve as you have noted for $300 million.
That is a part of a comprehensive offer to settle all the related civil administrative and criminal matters.
To be clear we may not reach a final settlement.
This is an estimate.
An important reminder this investigation is solely about physician relationships.
It primarily relates to our physician joint ventures that as you know are subject to complex regulations under both anti-kickback and other laws.
There have been no allegations concerning: One the quality of care we provide; number two the cost to the government; or number three the utilization of medical services.
Nonetheless the government attorneys have taken the position that some or all of our joint ventures do not comply with the anti-kickback statute.
We disagree but we are talking with the government about its concerns and perspectives.
We believe our joint venture practices were consistent not only with regulations and the law but with the kidney care community and with health care services overall.
We look forward to working with the government to establish greater clarity and a level-playing field for JVs in the industry.
We understand that you may have many questions on this topic.
Please we ask you to understand that we can't answer most of them until such time that the process is concluded in a settlement hopefully.
In addition as of April 2013 our HealthCare Partners subsidiary was served with a civil complaint regarding Medicare patient coding practices.
The suit names HCP along with a number of defendants including several of the nation's larger health insurance companies.
We also did have some good news on the legal front in the quarter.
As the Turner-Hooks matter one of the previous Qui tam matters that we have previously disclosed was dismissed with prejudice which means that the matter is done with with no discovery no trial no settlement no fine no finding against DaVita at all.
On to public policy on the kidney care side.
With respect to the ESRD Seamless Care Organizations or ESCOs as most of you know CMMI did delay implementation a couple of months.
We now have a deadline of May 15 for indicating our interest and binding proposals would be due by July 1.
CMMI has continued to be a constructive partner listening to the community so we are hopeful that there will be some changes to the program design.
And our participation as you know is contingent on seeing some changes in the design so that it is set up to be successful because we do believe that if we're allowed to provide integrated care on a sustained basis to that population we can do dramatically wonderful things for the patients their families physicians caregivers and the taxpayer.
On that front I'll actually share one new and bright success story in the area of kidney care services.
A recent study published by the American Journal of Kidney Disease a peer-reviewed article found that patients who used DaVita Rx our integrated medication management services are 21% more likely to live longer and 14% -- have spent 14% fewer days in the hospital each year than patients who do not use that service.
And we now have over 50 000 patients on that service something that we invested in for several years before we could get it to breakeven and the wonderful clinical and economic results that we're now experiencing.
On the HealthCare Partners front.
And very good news on that performance.
And HCP's 3 legacy markets continues to be solid and in line with our expectations.
On the growth front we closed some tuck-in acquisitions in the first quarter.
On the reimbursement front the bad news is that the Medicare Advantage cuts that we feared would take place and talked about at the time that we announced the combination have actually taken place.
It was on April 1 that CMS announced its final 2014 reimbursement decisions.
While those rates were better than the preliminary ones announced in February they still represent a significant decline for HCP in particular due to the recalibration of patient risk coding when you compare '14 to '13.
We estimate that that final notice will represent a rate reduction of about 6% to 9% somewhere in that range on average across our Medicare Advantage patient population.
About 10% of that will be offset through contractual pass-throughs to the provider network.
We in addition expect to offset some of the remaining rate cut impact but will not be able to give you very specific guidance with respect to that.
Up to half of the remaining hit could be offset through benefit design changes that our health plan partners can and may make because CMS will allow up to a $34 increase in per member per month total beneficiary cost.
And since our 3 legacy HCP markets are currently no-premium markets that means more or less the average payer could use that full $34 a month and still [indiscernible] 75% of the current gap in benefits.
In other words the extra benefits that an MA beneficiary receives versus a normal fee-for-service beneficiary that you could use the full $34 allowance and still retain on average about 75% of the current superiority.
So given the size of that benefit gap we do expect many plans will reduce their benefits or increase beneficiary cost but we could be wrong.
It is their decision not ours in virtually every case.
In addition to plan design we will of course work on incremental cost and efficiency initiatives to try to offset even more of this dramatic rate reduction.
And of course as we move forward we will give you updates as we have them.
As to our overall outlook regarding the balance of 2014 (sic) [2013] we are increasing the lower end of our range.
Our 2013 operating income guidance excluding the impact of the loss contingency reserve is now $1.8 billion to $1.9 billion.
This includes dialysis and its related businesses' operating income in the range of $1.4 billion to $1.45 billion and then HealthCare Partners OI in the range of $400 million to $450 million.
As always we could end up above or below this guidance but it does capture a majority of the probabilistic outcomes and incorporates all known swing factors.
I will now turn the call over to Jim Hilger.
Thanks Kent.
First a few more dialysis operating metrics.
Our non-acquired growth was 4.4% when normalized for days of the week and our commercial mix improved slightly in the quarter.
One of the reasons for a continued strong non-acquired growth is that we have closed very few centers over the last couple of years choosing to continue to operate a large number of centers that are losing money.
However this could change with sequestration and rebasing and a poor rebasing result could lead us to close more centers which would adversely impact our growth.
Next our U.S.
dialysis revenue per treatment increased $10.28 from the prior quarter.
This was driven primarily by increased Medicare rates normal commercial rate increases and a slight improvement in our commercial mix.
As you model revenue for the rest of the year you should take into account the impact of sequestration which resulted in a 2% cut in our Medicare rates which is about $20 million per quarter reduction in our dialysis Medicare revenue.
U.S.
dialysis patient care cost per treatment rose $3.52 from the prior quarter driven primarily by seasonally higher payroll taxes and seasonally higher fixed cost per treatment due to fewer treatment days in the quarter.
Dialysis G&amp;A per treatment was up $1.29 per treatment primarily driven by compensation expense including seasonal fluctuations related to fewer treatment days in the quarter and higher payroll tax.
During the quarter we experienced $7 million in international losses reflecting improved international performance with the addition of our operations in Poland and Portugal.
Please note we still continue to expect operating losses in 2013 to be less than $30 million absent securing any large new contracts that would have associated startup costs.
And now a comment about HCP's operating performance.
HCP's performance was solid in the quarter with operating income of $110 million.
Total capitated HCP members (sic) [HCP member months] grew 5.8% sequentially of which 2.1% was acquisition-related.
Year-on-year member months grew 20.3% of which 16.2% was acquisition-related.
And note that this compares incorporates dates prior to the completion of our merger which occurred on November 1 2012.
For the overall enterprise our debt expense was $106 million in the first quarter.
Given the current debt levels our expectation is that debt expense will be around $430 million for the year which includes the impact of the interest rate hedges we put in place late in the first quarter.
The effective tax rate attributable to DaVita HealthCare Partners excluding the loss contingency reserve was 40.7% in the quarter.
And we continue to expect an effective tax rate of 40% to 41% for 2013 excluding the impact of a loss contingency reserve.
Now turning to cash flow.
Operating cash flow was $379 million in the first quarter.
And our 2013 operating cash flow guidance remains at $1.35 billion to $1.5 billion.
This guidance excludes the impact of any legal settlement we may reach.
And with that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Borsch from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Brian Zimmerman in for Matt.
With the rebasing in mind can you talk a little bit about what levers you could pull to mitigate some of the potential cuts on the cost side? Sure.
This is Kent.
We have always tried as everyone does to run themselves pretty efficiently.
So while we will be taking a second and look -- second and third look at everything on both sides of the house right now we can't offer up any material number with the degree of confidence that would warrant publicly mentioning it.
So we're going to do the best we can but right now we can't attach a number to that for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then regarding the CMMI pilot program you said that you've had some positive discussions.
I was hoping you could give us a bit more color on that? And then when would you expect to see any changes to the program because May 15 is coming up pretty quickly? Yes you are right.
Although in many respects it's the later date that's more relevant because that's the binding proposal.
And I should correct the mistake I made earlier.
Evidently I said 2014 when I was talking about outlook and guidance going forward and I should have said 2013 so I apologize for that.
With respect to CMMI the positive interaction is a commentary unfortunately just on the quality of the process and the fact that they're listening it is not that they have told us that they're going to change anything specifically or generally so we have high hopes and we're just glad that they listen to us and we've got a quality dialogue.
But they haven't given us any indication that they actually will make material changes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is you mentioned that you saw a bit of a pickup in payor mix this quarter.
What percentage of your dialysis volumes were from commercial payers? It's approximately 10% of our patients are commercial.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it was 10% last quarter too is that correct? Yes it was.
It just -- it improved just slightly from that.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to ask some questions here about MA in your comments obviously about 2014.
You talked a little bit about some of the contractual pass-throughs that you expect and quantified that.
I guess on the other 2 pieces you said you're working on other offsets and so I'd be curious just to get your thoughts and maybe you can share with us Bob or Matt how you might be able to accomplish that? And then as far as the benefit design changes by the plans at this stage of the game what kind of visibility do you have into the half of the offset that Tim mentioned from what the plans are going to be doing? Bob Margolis here.
I'll try to answer it pretty similar to actually Kent's answer about the rebasing and that is we always to try to run a very efficient operation.
There'll be opportunities we think to be more efficient in some areas and to really look hard at our cost structure going forward.
You did mention that there's a pass-through of about 10% of it.
And as to the benefit question as you've heard in other analysts' analyses it's a fairly significant $34 per member per month that CMS has allowed to be shared with the beneficiaries.
And there's still an enormous gap of better benefits in Medicare Advantage versus Medicare fee for service.
Whether or not the plans will choose to pass some or all of that $34 on to beneficiaries is out of our control.
They do inquire and discuss with us benefit in many of our markets.
But ultimately they make the determination not us.
I think it's relevant to point out that we are in relatively rich benefit markets none of which have Medicare Advantage premiums.
And so there is a fair amount of room and some expectation on our part that there will be movement in that direction.
But again it's something the plans will make -- independently make that decision in their initial filings in May.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then Bob maybe just a bigger-picture question for you.
You've seen lots of MA cycles over time.
We'd love to just get your view on enrollment and how you think enrollment in your 3 core markets might be disrupted by some of this? Again it's not possible to be very precise on that.
We believe that the MA program is still strong as we've seen over the last couple of years despite some projections of some of the people in the administration that the program would shrink.
It's actually grown pretty robustly.
We've seen a good new membership this past year as was reflected in the numbers that Kent offered up.
And it really is still a strong program so we're hopeful to see.
But of course if you move more of the cost to the beneficiaries it's less of an incentive than it had -- they had before to join the program.
So we don't expect it to be dramatically bad.
But we don't have any way to project accurately what it will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And just one last question.
Just as it relates to the joint venture model Kent you -- we've all thought about it as sort of a time-tested model given that JVs have been around for so long.
Can you just maybe confirm for us whether part of your settlement offer is to stop doing JVs in the future? And maybe just help us think about the status of the JVs that you currently have overall whether the structure would need to change? None of the specifics have been worked out at this point Darren.
And for us the strategic imperative is a level-playing field.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should assume then that JVs will still continue to be part of your operating model? At this point I'm afraid I just can't give you a definite prediction in either direction.
The government has agreed that non-Safe Harbor joint ventures can be legal and we're still discussing exactly what structures qualify and which ones they think do not.
We of course have been under the impression for a decade that the way we've been doing them is fine.
And so we're having to do a lot of sorting through with them.
And right now there has been no resolution.
This is Jim Hilger.
I just wanted to correct a statement I made earlier.
When I was discussing HCP's operating performance and describing the growth of total capitated HCP member months I believe I just said total capitated HCP members and I intended to say member months.
Your next question comes from line of Justin Lake from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Mike Newshel in for Justin.
Another question on the settlement.
Can you just clarify whether you're negotiating with the Colorado AG and the federal attorneys separately or are they negotiating together with you? It's one set of multipart negotiations.
Research Division</strong> And since you sort of put a dollar estimate on there I mean is the major point of the sessions going forward more in terms of oversight or the structure of JVs how -- what they think is acceptable? Or is still like the dollar amount still a big part of the discussions? Dollars are still under discussion as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Weight from Feltl and Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jim I think you were talking about the non-acquired growth of dialysis.
How many centers are actually operating at a loss? Well it varies from time to time.
But it is a minority of our centers clearly.
But more than a handful.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then okay fair enough...
Could you repeat the question please? I didn't catch it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was -- Jim I believe unless I misunderstood it had referenced that some of your centers are operating at a loss.
And I was interested how many actually are.
Yes the number varies somewhat.
But it's -- it varies between 140 and 200 somewhere in that range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how many members did HCP gain during the annual enrollment period this year on the MA side? We don't break out the membership for HCP on a quarterly basis.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then just kind of a more big picture here on HCP.
When you guys bring on new members I'm assuming they come on at lower margins than what you currently -- more mature members have -- are is that correct? Yes that's correct.
We expect that over time best practices and so on of all the years of our experience will diffuse to the new membership that we bring on.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in regards to that and I'm sure it's a combination of both I'm wondering if you could kind of maybe tell me or directionally point to us which one is more important in terms of maturing those margins.
Is it understanding kind of the disease profile and diagnosis which then can be correctly used to code that patient properly? Or is it more towards the implementation of kind of the care coordination and clinical initiatives that you have? As been stated before it's a complex set of integrated care expertise that we and others like us that involves improving the coding and diagnosis and documentation as you mentioned.
The utilization by focusing on health wellness and prevention and avoidable admissions and readmissions excellent post-acute care management and training doctors care managers disease managers social workers and the like into total integrated care so it's a complex of all of those aspects that has to occur over time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How much do you feel that risk coding and properly risk coding contributes historically kind of to your PMPM growth? You can't really break it out and -- because you're always coding the entire population that you have the ones who have been with you for a long time as well as the new ones.
And so perhaps ask the question again and see if we can be more helpful.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just -- because you probably -- I'm assuming you get the 2 risk code adjustments per year from CMS.
And so I'm curious what that does as an impact of kind of the overall growth in the revenue PMPM side? How much does that contribute? Well the adjustments have been positive and nontrivial.
But I don't think -- they move around enough that giving you a single number I don't think would be that helpful.
And of course they all are absorbed on a delayed basis into the aggregate business economics.
And so on a year-over-year basis these things tend to even out absent the big step function decisions like the ones the government just made.
So I don't think there is any helpful analysis in there for you beyond what we've said.
Matthew would you amend that? No I think what -- the other thing about coding which is important there's always a year delay because you have to code this as you know this year and you get paid next year.
So as Bob Margolis said we try to focus on more diagnosing the patient so we can have the appropriate treatment plan for those patients and disease management program.
That's more important to us at the beginning than trying to maximize the coding.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question then I'll jump off.
Last time you faced significant MA rate pressure is probably I'm assuming 2010.
Now there's this accumulation effect I understand that.
But is there anything you can look back in terms of what you learned that may help you manage the pressures that you're facing in 2014? We all learn from history.
You're probably not old enough to remember the balanced budget amendment.
We learned from that.
We did learn that MA cycles we believe that it's an excellent program that provides tremendous care to sick and fragile seniors and that it has a benefit structure significantly better than Medicare fee-for-service.
And that there will be fluctuations in membership growth and in margins as the government adjusts from time to time.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question just going back to some of the prepared comments in terms of the ability to mitigate part of the 6% to 9% rate reduction.
I just want to make sure I heard the components correctly.
So I think you said 10% of -- should be offset through contract pass-throughs and then I guess 50% could be offset through potential benefit designs.
Were there any other pieces that you've discussed or mentioned there that could help offset the rate reduction? Those are the 2 sources of offset that are directly related to the issue itself of the decision the government made.
Anything else would have to be operating improvements of the normal business variety either finding additional efficiencies driving additional acquisitions driving additional same-store growth things like that.
So everything else is normal business and trying to do more of it than usual.
LLC Research Division</strong> And have you had a chance to look and see how doable it would be to achieve other efficiencies to offset part of the rest of it? Yes we'd be very disappointed if the number was 0.
But at the same time no way right now to give you any assurance that the additional number is certain enough or large enough to mention.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on -- I guess on the JVs and the discussions I appreciate that you probably can't share too much with us.
But is there any other detail is there a sort of a specific piece of it that seems to be at issue in terms of what -- where they think the JVs might have violated the Safe Harbor? It's a very reasonable question and I'm afraid we can't just go there.
The -- to go into more detail on the live conversations would just not be a good idea.
It wouldn't be constructive.
And since the conversations are still going on and we don't know where they're going to end up we might very well tell you something that's wrong which would be really dysfunctional.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what's the timing or your best guess for the timing of when if it sort of continues down the path that it's going when it might be resolved? It's a guess only because we're not the primary determinant of the pace.
And these are complicated areas and we're dealing with multiple parties.
So very very difficult to venture forth for the guess.
But in the spirit of trying to be useful if we get to a point of a successful conclusion before it's entirely paper and consummated my guess is it would be a few months.
But again the operative word is that's a guess there's a lot of variables.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going to the rebasing have you had any incremental conversations or any conversations at all with CMS around the rebasing and the framework for the rebasing and how they're thinking about it and your input into that? Do the question again so I don't ramble please? LLC Research Division</strong> So I guess the question is in terms of discussing the rebasing with CMS have you had any discussions with CMS around the rebasing? And where I guess do you think their head is at with regards to some of the comments you made maybe last quarter about your thoughts on what the rebasing should be based on changes in utilization and changes on price et cetera? Yes.
Okay a very fair question.
The -- we have had high-quality conversations and we have made the analytical point that the drop in utilization has been totally offset by increases in price of the subject drugs themselves.
In other words the same ones that got used less had higher and higher prices which offset a majority of the decline.
And then the other revenue leakage that was not intended to be a part of putting in a bundle but in fact happened because of the case-mix adjusters and other variables means that in aggregate our economics have not changed on the Medicare side which means we still lose money on average on every Medicare treatment we do across America.
And so we've gone in and made that point and we would love to have the government take us up on our offer to come in and do additional audits.
So they see that the data from the industry is absolutely spot on and timely because so many of their data sources lag in terms of timing.
And so the good news is they've had the meetings with us.
They've listened.
They've asked good questions.
On the other hand they're staring at the legislation which targets very selectively and unfairly the one part of the cost structure that did in fact go down.
They however retain the right and in fact the legal responsibility to take into account the entire picture with respect to ESRD economics.
So put all that together and you end up not knowing where they will come out but we have had an opportunity to make a whole lot of accurate analytical real-world community-wide points.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so I guess the timing is still around the beginning of July for the proposed rule? That's my understanding of the current predictions.
And I don't know if there'd be any reason to think that it would slip given the magnitude of the work.
But that's what people are saying right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe my last question on the 8-K regarding the agreement with Berkshire.
I haven't had a chance I sort of skimmed through it.
But it seems that they are agreeing not to purchase more than 25% of DaVita shares.
Was -- is there something that you're giving them in return for that or is that just sort of something they were willing to enter into? They were willing to enter into that.
Kim would you like to add anything? I'd say we agreed to coordinate the HSR filing with them.
Could you hear that? LLC Research Division</strong> I think so.
Agreed to file an HSR filing? We agreed to coordinate the HSR filing with them yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck from BofA Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a question here on the 6% to 9% MA cut that you announced before.
Is that inclusive of the industry fee or would the industry fee be an addition to that? And how do you deal with that in relationship to the managed care companies? Do you [indiscernible] that that's something they need to pay or is that something that they're going to try to pass on to you? That's a fair question and we -- that's why we gave a range because we're still discussing that with our health plans.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's in the range but the higher end of the range included it in the lower end of the range or not? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Kent your commentary about the $34 cut and the 75% of the delta received [ph] [indiscernible] is that just a long way of saying that you provide about $130 to $140 of extra benefits today? So unless [ph] you cut $34 you'd still be providing about $100 of extra benefits is that the way to think about it? That's the right way to think about it and of course every plan in every market is a little bit different.
But if you took a bit of a weighted average that puts you in the right ballpark in the legacy markets that we're in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you also said in the prepared comments that the rate cuts that you expect at the time of the deal unfortunately have come to pass.
Does that mean that when you look at these rates you think that this is basically in line with kind of how you thought things would be trending for HCP or is this more front-end loaded? Is this worse? I mean how do you think about these rate cuts in context of how you thought about this as you entered the whole transaction? Got it.
I'll take 2 cuts at answering and perhaps other people's answer on our team would be different.
On the one hand it's them doing what they did and when they did it is worse than we thought it would be.
Second on the other hand HealthCare Partners' operating performance has exceeded what we thought it would be.
And so if you look at what we said when we announced the marriage we are still in a good position to be where we said we would probably be in 2014.
We can't guarantee it so it kind of depends how you look at it.
My first answer was sort of no this is worse than we thought.
And second answer is well if you look at it in a broader sense we're about where we thought.
Or we still have a shot at being where we thought maybe that's a more accurate way to put it.
Research Division</strong> That's certainly more similar to the way that we normally hear things from you anyway if not it's more accurate.
I guess how does it change your view if at all about consolidating the HCP side of the industry? I mean do you still feel like the opportunity is as robust as it was or do these rate cuts make it more difficult on the margin to make some of these acquisitions that you're evaluating work out? Two-part answer.
Again on the one hand when you take a reimbursement hit and your margins suffer it's tougher to invest.
There's less of a margin for error and maybe some people even lose some interest that you thought were attractive partners although we're not seeing any of that since most of the world seems to think that the fundamental trends are inexorable.
So that's the bad part where you say gosh that hurts us and our probabilities and prospects for what we intended to do and still intend to do.
On the other hand if you're better at something than most people and are more committed then when you take a rate cut like this some people are going to check out or fail because there's no longer enough margin to support their learning curve or their efforts.
And so we've certainly seen that over 15 years in dialysis that during the better reimbursement periods of course when I say better I mean primarily on the private insurance side which subsidizes Medicare.
The good news is you have higher margins.
The bad news is you have more competition and you pay more for things.
When reimbursement is tougher you suffer on the margin front.
But if you're disciplined over the long term your return on capital may in fact be superior as well as your rate of unit growth.
So I think time will tell which of those 2 vectors is stronger.
Research Division</strong> So I guess when I think about that type of dynamic around consolidating an industry during a period of disruption there's 2 ways I could envision HCP benefiting.
One would be if the managed care companies that you're aligned with are gaining share within their respective markets then you would get some natural follow-through from that.
And the other way would be is if other providers are -- other physician groups are actually exiting the market so you then gain it from the other side of things.
I mean is there one dynamic that you think is more impactful than the other? And then I guess how do you think about the managed care companies that you're aligned with? Are they generally the larger companies with higher margins and therefore more likely to be consolidating or are they more representative of the industry as a whole? How do you think about that? I'll answer the first one and let Bob answer the second.
On the first one the variable of having the payers that you're partnered with gaining share and derivatively enjoying that benefit versus on the other hand the driver of the providers against whom you're competing losing share to you and others which of those is more powerful that differs by market by year.
And either one can be significantly more powerful than the other in any given period.
And we of course try to benefit from both as best we can.
Although in some of our markets we work with so many payers if one's losing share to another for us the net effect can be 0 because we're on both sides on a Switzerland type of basis.
On the second question as to the types of payers we deal with primarily I'll turn to Bob.
I'll try to answer in a couple of different ways.
First of all I think we're recognized that the HCP division is having some expertise in some of our payer partners would like to see us in more of their difficult markets work with them to coordinate care and to work with the physicians so that's still a driver.
I would say for sure that rate cuts are not pleasant anywhere but there's a lot of horses driving physician consolidation that are unrelated specifically to these rate cuts.
First of all lot of physician groups have a serious amount of commercial business so it's not just MA running the whole scenario.
And number two even in the MA program the need to align with credible partners that can help star rating which is certainly one of the offsets to these kinds of cuts is something that's driving it.
The need for capital for technology continues to drive it.
The advent of pay-for-performance and more and more transparent metrics drives this consolidation and the frustration that physicians have in a decreasing reimbursement fee-for-service world.
So I think that taking MA cuts just in isolation is not as fulsome a way to look at this as perhaps we look at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then as far as the -- do you guys break out acquisition spending? Do you have a breakout of the acquisition spending by division? How much of that $91 million was spent on dialysis versus HCP? No we do not break that out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at these -- the data here around clinicians and IPAs.
Obviously the IPAs are up a lot sequentially but the full-time clinicians are down sequentially even though it sounds like you bought some things in Q1.
Just wanted to see -- I don't know -- this is the first time we're seeing the data.
I don't know if there's any seasonality to that number around year end or what but I just wanted to see any comments there.
No we haven't had any changes on the clinician.
As far as employed clinician our contracted clinician is up.
Are we having a disconnect here? Could you say the question again please just so we're as helpful as we can be? Research Division</strong> Yes so in the HCP operating metrics it looks like the number of clinicians are down sequentially from 1 079 to 1 069.
The IPAs are up a whole bunch but it was just down about 1% sequentially.
And I wasn't sure why that would be the case if you bought a few things in the quarter it sounds like? From time to time again for example if you have a certain specialty that we end up subcontracting so they're hired by outside specialty group so that 10 FTE that you see is just a normal business that we go through from quarter-to-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question here on ESCO it sounds like CMS actually already has made a couple of changes from the original proposal reducing the minimum size for each demonstration down from 500 to 350.
Also reducing I think the minimum savings rate down to 4% to -- from 4.75% (sic) [from 4% to 4.75%] for these non-Large Dialysis Organizations.
I -- do you have any comment on the -- do those things really help you at all or those are really meant to help the smaller players participate in this? Yes good point and you're right that my statement during the early part of the call was technically untrue.
LeAnne do you want to go ahead and comment on those? Yes.
Those would be the first signs that there was mean to the community and we've been working together.
But those are both targeted at helping the non-LDO segment.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-up questions.
I guess first on HealthCare Partners will you tell us how many acquisitions you guys did this quarter? And also given I think there's about 258 ACOs in the country now at -- as of February are you seeing any increased competition when you guys aren't looking at expansion opportunities? Oh we don't disclose the number of acquisitions typically.
And in this particular case it's such a small number it's not of any particular consequence.
If we ever have some sort of a spurt where there is data you need to understand to avoid misinterpreting our longer-term trends we would certainly go ahead and do that.
But otherwise we don't since they differ in size and timing.
And then your second question again sir please? Matthew has got it.
So I think you were referring to ACOs.
And we look at the ACOs Pioneer ACOs Medicare ACOs and commercial ACOs what we have seen in commercial ACOs is there are some relationship that the health plan create that's not necessarily ACO but they call it ACO.
We don't see that as a competition with us.
It is our regular fee-for-service patients that they're more and more on a commercial the health plan want to move it to a coordinated population management model.
On the Pioneer ACO and shared savings ACOs again these are your attributed Medicare patients.
So we -- that doesn't create any more competition that every day we have for our fee-for-service patients.
So we don't look at that.
That is a competition for us because it's all about attributed members that our physicians have.
Did that cover -- did that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes that definitely clears things up.
Then just kind of what's your outlook in terms of expansion opportunities? And Kent can you remind us in your guidance for HCP's operating income does that include acquisitions? Yes it does is the answer to the latter question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other part was outlook on acquisitions.
The robust pipeline.
The -- we have an awful lot of people calling us and interested.
Having said that exactly when we'll close any deals that will add up to something material is not an area where we want to put any kind of stake in the ground.
So the good news is lots of interest.
The bad news is we're not yet certain enough about which ones we're going to be able to and interested in closing and when that will happen and what the economics will be so we're -- we'd be very nervous about you baking anything significant into your near-term forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Did I hear someone say pipeline is still robust pretty much? There was one person on the table who contributed that yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just a question for Hammer.
The G&amp;A it looked like it was a little bit lower this quarter.
Was there anything unusual or is 10.3% of revenue kind of a good run rate that we should be looking at? The G&amp;A expense for the quarter is on a combined basis the 10.3%.
I'd just point out that there would be transaction costs in prior quarters that would be impacting that rate.
So I think it is -- and also we only had 2 months in Q4 of HCP.
But the 10.3% is going to be a good proxy.
For now it may fluctuate plus or minus but that's a better proxy than the Q4 number.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Andrew from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Quick questions if I may.
You talked about the number of -- you didn't give us a specific number but the communities in which you -- closing your center or you're running at centers at poor profitability.
Can you give us some sense in your view what chunk of your centers that are in that kind of condition if they were to close would cause a serious problem for patient access? I don't know the exact number.
And of course [ph] the answer cannot be precise because the definition of what is -- whatever adjective you use is highly subjective and we take any sort of disruption to patient access to care pretty seriously and that can be driving distance.
It can be the quality of the center it can be the timing of the shift that's available et cetera et cetera.
So many ways to define disruption.
But it's not a tiny number because even if there are other centers close by if someone has to move to the night shift that can be highly disruptive to their lives which often translates into poor clinical outcomes which often translates as well into more hospitalizations.
So it's not a small percentage.
But I don't -- it'd be pretty arbitrary for me to pick a number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then within the integrated care program for dialysis itself have you talked anymore about what you would like to see what changes you would like to see made to the program? Because we see that there's some movement towards the SDOs [ph].
But is anything there enough that would if extended the LDOs be helpful for you all? LeAnne do you want to go ahead and cover that please? We -- the industry has asked for a number of changes including some on the calculation of economics.
And so this is a first sign that they're taking those considerations seriously.
But we really couldn't be specific beyond that because they haven't given us indication.
Research Division</strong> So there's not a threshold or something that we could really think about in terms of what would be enough? Not at this time because there's several areas that they could make some movement that would really help us in how we feel about participation and so we'll see -- we'll answer that question when we see their complete proposal.
Your next question comes from Vijay Malik [ph] from Peninsula Equity Advisors.
Could you please provide some more color on the standstill you entered with Berkshire? Specifically what prompted DaVita to enter into it and do you feel the market is underestimating DaVita's long-term cash-generation ability? Would it be disadvantageous for -- to shareholders to go private? With respect to the standstill Hammer or Kim would one of you like to respond? Can you rephrase that first part of the question? Sure.
Just some more color on the standstill really what prompted DaVita what motivated DaVita to enter into it? Was this DaVita going to Berkshire based on management's opinion that the market is undervaluing the company and even taking out a significant premium would be disadvantageous to shareholders? Well Berkshire recently approached us about the option of increasing their holdings and we found them to be a supportive investor with a long-term view and we're glad to have them as a significant shareholder.
So we entered into a discussion about coordinating an HSR filing in exchange for having an agreement that reflects the fact that they're a passive investor and this is a friendly relationship.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Whit Mayo from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just one other question on the Berkshire standstill.
Can you disclose what the length of that agreement is? I believe the total -- do you mean the timing? Research Division</strong> The timing.
I believe it's 3 years.
Research Division</strong> Three years? Okay.
And my second question is just any general update on the California Duals program and your enthusiasm to participate in that program.
Again it's a bit of a moving target.
As you know California got permission from CMS to move forward with it.
It's still anticipated to move forward.
There is still lack of clarity about how the rates will be set and where and how the risk will be apportioned relative to not only the ambulatory and institutional portions but the post-acute and long-term care.
And so still a lot of moving parts a big potential opportunity if the economics pan out correctly.
But at this point I can say we're in a continual discussion in both L.A.
and Orange counties with the health plans that will be selected or have been selected to administer the program.
[Operator Instructions] This is Kim.
I want to make one quick correction about the question regarding the length of the standstill.
I would let folks know the entire agreement is on file with our 8-K so you can look at it and it is meant to be in place so long as Berkshire is a 15% or above shareholder.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I turn the call over to the presenters.
Okay.
Thank you all very much for your continued interest in DaVita HealthCare Partners.
We apologize that we had an unusual amount of difficult news to convey.
We do in fact hope to reach a satisfactory resolution with the government and put that behind us which would lead to a lot lower legal expenses and a lot less management time consumed by it.
And so we're hoping that we can in fact reach a satisfactory resolution there.
And thank you all.
We'll to talk to you again soon.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Ian and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the DaVita HealthCare Partners Q2 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Jim Gustafson you may now begin your conference.
Thank you Ian and welcome everyone to our second quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations; and with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Bob Margolis the CEO of HealthCare Partners; Matthew Mazdyasni HealthCare Partners Executive Vice President and CFO; Jim Hilger our Chief Accounting Officer and Interim CFO; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Okay.
Thank you Jim and thanks to all of you out there for your interest in our enterprise.
This quarter as maybe you've already noted by seeing the press release we experienced mixed results with continued solid performance in our Kidney Care business but with results below your and our expectations at HealthCare Partners.
I will cover 6 topics: number one clinical performance; number two HealthCare Partners performance; number three Kidney Care performance; number four a policy update; number five a quick comment on investigations; and number six our outlook going forward.
Category 1 clinical outcomes which we always present first because that is what comes first you probably know we serve about 1 out of every 3 dialysis patients in America at this point.
Our adequacy at 98% of our patients with a Kt/V of greater than 1.2 is outstanding.
Our vascular access was 72% of our patients having fistulas is outstanding.
We've talked about those metrics in the past.
We'd like to comment on an additional one this time and talk about our strides in reducing their peritonitis rates for our PD patients which represent between 9% and 10% of our patients.
The international guidelines for peritonitis is 1 episode per 18 months; our data 1 episode for every 45 months about 1/3 the rate of issue and is across a very substantial patient population.
Overall as you've heard many times our patient outcomes compare very favorably with national averages and that is both good for patients and saves taxpayers money.
I'd also like to start talking more about the wonderful clinical outcomes at HealthCare Partners.
We can compare our 2012 performance in California for example to the national HEDIS data for Medicare HMO patients.
We are still harmonizing the rest of the HealthCare Partners data across the 3 markets and so in the future we'll be able to provide aggregate metrics.
But right now California which is the biggest market by far our Medicare Advantage patients once again several years in a row scored near the top across a wide variety of metrics including above the 90th percentile with respect to colorectal cancer; above the 90th percentile with respect to female patients screened for breast cancer; and near the 90th percentile with respect to diabetic LDL less than 100.
For these and many other clinical outcomes HealthCare Partners compares very favorably to national averages.
In addition we averaged 4 stars or better on the HEDIS clinical quality metrics in all 3 of our legacy HealthCare Partners partner markets.
Next turning to HealthCare Partners operating performance which I'm sure is the subject of primary focus for many of you.
It was a weak quarter no 2 ways around it.
What's the right way to think about it and diagnose that weakness and its implications going forward.
First of all if you take our guidance for the year which was OI of $400 million to $450 million and take the midpoint $425 million you just divide that evenly and that would be about $106 million per quarter.
Then you allow for in general the long-term trend being second half better than first half of each year probably tweak that down to $103 million or so which means we were $22 million off what someone might have expected.
Of course I'm picking single-point numbers when one would normally use a range but I'm trying to simplify things.
Well about half of that $10 million was a normal seasonal decline that happens in Q2 about of that magnitude.
Last year it was a little bit higher and you should expect a similar seasonal trend in future years indexed to our MA growth which is where you experienced a bunch of that seasonality.
So about half of that number was in fact not an operating shortfall.
However the other half was; first sub-point under that category is sequestration which started April 1 and that explains about $7 million so it's over half of the remaining $12 million sequestration which is might very well recur for some time.
And then of that remaining 40% or so 40% of the $12 million Albuquerque was the single biggest chunk where our operating performance is under what we expected and then there was this small basket of miscellaneous things that round out the variance.
We do expect to do slightly better in Q3 and Q4 than Q1 and Q2 hence are lowering the full year HealthCare Partners expectations which I'll talk about in a minute.
Regarding growth very important to us and to you.
Total member months did decline 2% sequentially in Q2 compared to Q1 due to our ending a relationship that had unfavorable rates.
That one is actually good news for you.
But more important we had 20% year-on-year growth of Medicare Advantage patients in our 3 legacy markets of which 12 -- 60% or 12 of the 20 was organic and 8% through a series of small but important acquisitions at reasonable multiples.
Please note that the year-on-year comparisons incorporate dates prior to the completion of our merger which was in the middle of the fourth quarter last year.
We'll now move on to Kidney Care performance.
I think I can handle that quite concisely from my point of view although Jim Hilger will go into more detail just by saying our Kidney Care business continued to operate solidly all across the board in the quarter and year-to-date.
Enough on that I'll move on to public policy.
Starting here with Kidney Care and the proposed 2014 Medicare reimbursement cuts.
This is exceptionally frustrating given already dialysis providers lose money on Medicare patients and charge private patients significantly more in order to subsidize government patients.
It is our understanding at this point that CMS felt compelled to focus on a very narrow sliver of the bundle having to do with pharmaceutical utilization and felt circumscribed from not being able to take into account other factors.
We actually disagree with that interpretation and are making that point vigorously and hoping this comment period that our protest with respect to that logic is taken seriously.
Time will tell.
If they cut reimbursement there will be changes to patient access to care.
There's no 2 ways around it for the nationwide community.
I could provide a list of the potential consequences but the most significant one is that almost inevitably some centers will close -- actually inevitably some centers will close and they will tend to be those centers that served the most vulnerable patients.
We have carried a lot of centers that lose money overall in aggregate trying to be a good citizen of the system but if they cut reimbursement at some point it becomes impossible to do that everywhere.
Moving on to health care policy.
The big policy issue as you know is around Medicare Advantage.
We have no material update on this to provide.
It's nice to reflect on the facts however that Medicare Advantage remains a superior value proposition both in terms of clinical outcomes and overall cost to taxpayers.
Let's go back to Kidney Care for a moment another aspect of policy and that is the ESRD Seamless Care Organizations or ESCOs.
First we do want to publicly thank CMS for all the time that they have put into this whole process in the ESCO design.
Second however we are very very disappointed that the small changes to the proposed ESCO design will not make it one that merits significant investment; and to implement the kind of spectacular success that we've had in integrated care the proven success we've had in integrated care does take a bunch of upfront investments and we simply can't put a lot of your capital at risk in that way when we know we could generate a return through improving quality and reducing costs with the right architecture of the program and the right duration of the program.
But we can't make all those formidable investments if in fact after we make all those improvements there won't be any return because of course you would not allocate anymore capital to us to continue to grow what could be a beautiful program.
We will not give up hope for the future and once again we're grateful for the hard work that CMS put in.
It's a complicated subject no doubt.
But you can tell by our remarks and the consistency of our remarks over many years now that we believe strongly in coordinated care that it is a win-win-win for the patient for the taxpayer and for the enterprise and that we have proven that this is the case and it can be scaled.
Next topic quick update on investigations and lawsuits.
On the physician relationship side we continue to have discussions with the government but have not reached any settlement or resolution yet; and then 2 pieces of really strong good news.
We had 2 previously disclosed lawsuits against HealthCare Partners the Zanre [ph] suit and the Slogan [ph] suit both previously disclosed as I mentioned; and each of them the judges ordered that the cases be dismissed with prejudice meaning the plaintiffs cannot refile those claims.
In both cases dismissed before they got very far at all because the claims were so meritless and our advocacy was so appropriately and justifiably strong.
So 2 very nice pieces of good news on the legal front.
Last our thoughts looking forward.
As you probably read already we have made changes to our 2013 guidance decreasing HealthCare Partners OI guidance by $20 million so there's now a range of $380 million to $430 million.
And on the other hand increasing Kidney Care OI guidance by $50 million to the range of $1.45 billion to $1.50 billion and the net impact is what you probably already calculated is a net increase to the bottom and top end of our consolidated operating income guidance of $30 million in other words to somewhere between $1.83 billion to $1.93 billion.
Of course this guidance excludes the impact of any legal settlement related to the physician relationship matters or anything else as well as any impact from any change in value of the 2013 earn-out associated with the HealthCare Partners marriage.
As always all the guidance that I have mentioned and we've referred to in our documents capture a majority of the probabilistic outcomes based on our whole wide number of swing factors and it could happen that we end up outside the guidance above or beyond.
Looking beyond 2013 we are unfortunately unable to provide any useful guidance on 2014 right now.
You all know of the significant reimbursement cuts.
You all know we've all operated reasonably efficiently in the past.
So simply too many variables at this point to provide useful guidance to you and we wish we could but to provide guidance that's too speculative doesn't do anyone any good.
So we will not succumb to that temptation.
Looking longer the good news is we are well positioned.
A we have strong relative value propositions on both sides of the enterprise that's both in absolute terms and relative to the competition.
B a second piece of good news we have strong business development opportunities at HealthCare Partners.
C the bad news is that muscle the new market muscle the business development muscle still needs to be developed at HealthCare Partners.
But D fourth and finally the good news is we have a very robust and secure cash flows as we proceed down the path of building those capabilities and taking advantage of our strong relative value propositions.
Thank you very much.
I look forward to the Q&amp;A and I'll now turn it over to Jim Hilger.
Take it away.
Thanks Kent.
First I'll cover a few more dialysis operating metrics.
Our non-acquired growth was 5% when normalized for days of the week and our commercial mix improved slightly in the quarter.
Our U.S.
dialysis revenue per treatment was down $1.58 from the prior quarter reflecting the impact of the 2% Medicare sequestration cut which went into effect in April partially offset by improved commercial mix.
Our dialysis G&amp;A per treatment was down $1.28 from the first quarter due primarily to seasonal fluctuations including compensation expense.
And during the quarter we experienced $6 million in international losses in line with our prior expectations.
Now next a comment about HCP.
We've reduced the estimated fair value of the contingent liability with the HealthCare Partners earn-outs or 2013 creating a gain of $57 million which is reflected in our operating income.
We're adjusting the expected fair value of the earn-out based on the first half performance of HCP and the expected operating performance for the remainder of the year.
We'll continue to value this liability each quarter until the earn-out is finalized.
So we may continue to see some swings in the value -- if the value changes.
As far as the overall enterprise goes our debt expense was $108 million in the second quarter and this is consistent with what we've guided last quarter.
This should be a good run rate for the remainder of the year.
Our effective tax rate attributable to DaVita HealthCare Partners was 39.5% in the quarter excluding the accounting adjustment for the HCP earn-out.
Note that we now expect a tax rate of between 39% to 40% for 2013 excluding the loss contingency reserve we recorded in Q1 as well as the HCP earn-out adjustment.
Now turning to cash flow.
Our operating cash flow was $307 million in the second quarter.
We're raising the bottom end of our 2013 operating cash flow guidance and our current expectation is for operating cash flow to now be between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion for the year.
This guidance excludes the impact of any legal settlements we may reach in the physician relationship investigations.
And with that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Matt Weight.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kent I was wondering if you could just start with rebasing here.
Clearly there were several discussions you guys have with CMS.
And so when I look at the disconnect here is this a function of just poorly written legislation to begin with or did CMS more or less disagree with your analytical analysis I guess? Fair question.
Let me sort of stumble for a moment and then you come back and see if I've added any value.
The -- right now they are maintaining that they have a different interpretation of the legislation and so that is a part of what is going on and we are asking for a more senior legal review based on the premise that that hasn't happened yet and so that is potentially one variable.
Based on what we've been told it is one variable.
And then second is of course just their overall view of the sector in a world where they want to find Medicare savings.
And there it's impossible to say for sure what their real view of our economics are.
On the one hand we know the facts are.
We lose money on Medicare on average across America.
On the other hand they see that we and other providers are in aggregate successful.
And so how much of what drove their preliminary recommendation or idea or proposal was driven by category A versus B we can only speculate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you feel that -- so it sounds like you don't feel that there would necessarily need to be a new bill that would almost replace what was written in the fiscal cliff though? No.
What they need to do is absorb the comments which they are and we're grateful for the fact that they're listening.
They're hearing a lot from the kidney care community because there are a lot of people big and small that are worried about closing centers restricting hours et cetera et cetera.
So there's an awful lot of feedback being provided to them which is exactly what they want in order to make their final decision which they'll make in a couple of months after hearing from us and parts of Congress.
And then depending on what happens of course we always have the recourse of trying to go to Congress if we feel we've been unfairly harmed but we all know what a tortuous path that is.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And in the past you've discussed at times anywhere from a -- maybe 150 to 200 of your centers do operate at a loss.
So to the extent the proposed rule isn't adjusted would you say a majority of those clinics are at risk? We're not talking about an aggregate number because so much will be driven by what they ultimately decide.
Suffice it to say it won't be 0.
I mean we are first and foremost a caregiving company and a notion of closing a center where we're taking care of kidney care patients is pretty much an aftermath [ph] to us which you can see by our track record.
At the same time at some point the reimbursement has to be fair in covering the costs of those centers that don't have enough private patients in order to subsidize the government.
We wish there was some magic wand where they could just increase Medicare reimbursement where there aren't enough private patients to subsidize because that at least would be a move towards a more rational system.
But right now while we know the number won't be 0 for us it won't be 0 for the industry.
Nonetheless we're not talking about an aggregate number because it would be totally speculative and it just hurts too much to even think about it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
I'm assuming obviously you guys are not just sitting on your hands here.
So what kind of levers can you look to pull? I know you're already run an efficient model there but there's clearly going to be some pressure.
So can you help us think about some of the levers? No.
Your words are exactly correct.
As much as we think both HealthCare Partners and Kidney Care have done very nice jobs in managing productivity and efficiency over time you just can't stare at reimbursement cuts of this magnitude and do nothing.
It just doesn't make sense just as you wouldn't do nothing in your family household and suddenly your income was dramatically impaired.
So we will be looking at every single expense and I'm confident we'll find some savings.
Right now we can't put a number on it.
And unfortunately its not going to be big enough to change the fact that we're going to take quite a hit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right I'll -- one more and then I'll jump back in queue.
Switching just briefly over to HCP and I think Kent you made the comment in your prepared remarks that the new market muscle still needs to be developed there.
So I'm curious if you could expand on that what's maybe taken a little bit longer.
And then also I know they are small acquisitions but curious that HCP acquired in Nevada in March a hospice operator and then a cancer center in June in Nevada too.
So any color on what's the strategic thinking with that kind of acquisition versus an IPA would be a helpful color.
Well I'll let Bob comment on the hospice and cancer center acquisitions.
But before he does that as to the new market muscle it's pretty straightforward which is HealthCare Partners had and has an amazing track record in the 3 legacy markets clinically economically patient service patient satisfaction physician satisfaction HEDIS ratings star rating et cetera.
They focused on those 3 markets and did beautiful things on all those dimensions.
They did not go out into new markets.
They did not go out and do different models and so it's a new thing.
And I think we're making steady not impressive but steady progress in building that capability.
Cannot at this point translate that into numbers for you.
The pipeline is very robust.
Because of our capabilities on that side of the house lots of folks are interested in working with us and so that's wonderful news.
Exactly how long it will take us to develop all the right capabilities of transferring those capabilities and implementing them with partners right now we just can't put the kind of number on that that you would legitimately want.
But let me go ahead and turn to Bob for the hospice and oncology and then you can come back at me if you'd like.
It's an interesting question.
Certainly there are acquisitions related to new doctors new IPAs medical groups new markets and that's perhaps what you think of when you think of acquisitions.
But first and foremost we're a caregiving company and the opportunity to manage and coordinate the full continuum of care is an important driver in the clinical results that we want of all of our systems.
And so a hospice acquisition made a lot of sense because of the opportunity in Las Vegas to coordinate the very difficult time of life the end-of-life care in a fully seamless and compassionate way relative to the continuum of care.
And likewise cancer care or an earlier cardiology acquisition that you may have mentioned or similarly so that we could have the full integrated services delivered to our patient the populations we serve in that market.
We may do similar things in other markets where a buy-versus-build decision pushes us in that direction.
And Matt I think it's time for us to go to someone else.
You probably should try to stick to that normal convention of 1 to 2 questions each and then back in the queue if that's okay.
And your next question comes from Gary Lieberman at Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess maybe just to go back at the HCP muscle development or the business development.
I guess can you maybe share with us what your expectations were and if they fell short or that you sort of didn't know what to expect and it's maybe going slower? Or how would you characterize that? Okay.
It's a fair question and I don't know that we -- if we ask everyone in the room or in the rooms that question you'd get the same answer because I think different people had different expectations.
Overall if you look at the expectations we talked about when we made the announcement of the combination we still have a shot of being on track with that here in the first couple of years which we always said were years that had some headwinds both because of the integration of the 2 companies and because of what was going to go on in the reimbursement environment.
So I think in that sense there is no surprise.
But then if you ask have we performed superbly excellently medium average or terribly? Unfortunately we're not yet operating at the excellent level just because it is a new muscle.
So I think how you net those 2 facts together we're probably a little bit behind in capability and still okay in the game with respect to the numbers themselves because for the first x quarters of our time after the announcement the operating performance was so much stronger than we expected.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is there -- I mean can you lay out any details on kind of the plan going forward or timing? Is it a manpower issue? Is it finding sort of the right integration or the right structure for the organization? It's primarily a resource question and you can't of course just go out and hire 2 people and have them be wonderful at day 1 or 20 people and you can't suddenly take 10 people and shift them from one job to another.
So it's all the normal nitty-gritty operating stuff.
But at the core of it is just having enough of the right bodies in order to deliver that which we know how to deliver with partners who want us to deliver it.
So lots of good news if we can drive ourselves to a new level of capability quickly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Jim could you explain the earn-out contingent fair value in a little bit more detail? If I'm doing the math correctly it looks like it declined from $126 million to $57 million which would seem like a relatively big change in the fair value of something so maybe walk us through the math there.
Sure.
Actually you got to the numbers pretty much spot on Gary.
The -- when we acquired HCP in our purchase accounting we had to estimate the fair value at that time.
We had thought the likelihood that they would achieve their 2013 earn-out being quite high and we had initially valued it in purchase accounting at roughly the $125 million number.
Our assessment at the end of the second quarter was it was more of a 50-50 matter and so the value of it is approximately 50% of the total earn-out which is $137.5 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that -- forgive me for not knowing this but -- so is that the earn-out for 2013 or is that over a longer period of time? It's for 2013.
If you recall in the original architecture of the transaction there was a $275 million potential earn-out related to the achievement of EBITDA in 2012 and 2013.
HCP achieved the earn-out in 2012 and that's been paid.
And then in 2013 the other 50% of the $275 million is the opportunity for HCP and we are handicapping the likelihood that they'll achieve that at roughly 50%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the goal there was -- that was $600 million of EBITDA is -- was -- is that the number that's the target? That is the target.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe if I could get one more question in on HCP and I'll jump in -- back in the queue.
Could we maybe get a little bit more detail on the update in New Mexico? Sure.
We continue to -- what are the right words? We have not yet nailed down a sustainable partnership there.
That's the bad news.
It'd be good if that was done.
The good news is there are multiple people who want us to be their long-term partner and we're making good progress in figuring out who is going to be the right one.
But in the meantime we're taking some hits in the context of the overall enterprise.
Not huge but nonetheless versus what we expected when we were developing the guidance for 2013 they're higher than what we had planned on.
Is that responsive? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful and then maybe just a follow-up.
It's essentially the same issue that's been fairly well documented in the press or has there been any change in that dynamic? It's pretty much the same.
And your next question comes from the line of Justin Lake at JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First let's start on HCP.
You mentioned on your last call that approximately half of the rate pressure in Medicare Advantage next year could be mitigated by whole-plan bidding.
Given those bids were filed in June I'm hoping you can give us an update here on how we should think about HCP going into next year in this regard.
Justin Bob Margolis here.
We won't know that unfortunately until the plans officially are approved by CMS and that's not until the October timeframe.
So as you may know the plans hold fairly close to the vest their decisions on benefits for competitive reasons give us some indications that they may or may not be moving to greater beneficiary responsibility and we continue to estimate as we said before that perhaps half of that allowable portion of the MA cuts could be mitigated through benefit changes but we do not have new information at this point.
Research Division</strong> So this isn't a two-way discussion between you and the plans in terms of how they're going to accept benefits.
At the end of the day they are going to set them where they feel like they need to and you'll respond in terms of either accepting them or not how do -- is that the way to think about it? That is generally a true statement.
I wouldn't say we did not have significant conversations and input with our plan partners more with the ones where we have our large penetration in their membership and less when we have a smaller penetration.
But ultimately for competitive reasons they make decisions about margin versus market share that are broader than their relationship just with us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my follow up question I just wanted to go back to the interactions with DC and CMS.
If we -- clearly I think Kent you gave a lot of color on how these rate cuts have iterated and -- in and of themselves it's clear that dialysis isn't the only industry going through this in terms of CMS looking for dollars.
And when you add it on top of the oral meds being delayed by Congress the integrated care demo been disappointing curious if you can expand a little bit in terms of how you feel with the relationship with DC is currently versus what I call at least on my 10-plus years following the company the partnership that the industry has kind of enjoyed with DC over time.
It's a fair question Justin and I guess when you cite the facts as you just did and as we have it's clear that they made some decisions that we really wish they hadn't and in particular in a couple of cases really affecting our ability to take the quality of care and the effectiveness of each taxpayer dollar to a whole nother new level so it's profoundly frustrating.
I don't think there's been any big change in our effectiveness as a community or how we're viewed as a community.
Maybe some change because sometimes when a couple of companies are successful then they become more tempting targets.
But that -- also we don't want to throw out at some sort of convenient excuse if we're not doing the right job of advocacy and doing it the right number of years ahead of time.
So I -- as you know it's kind of unanswerable question because there's so many different people in CMS.
There's so many different people in Congress.
There's so many different people in MedPAC.
I -- I'm kind of stumbling here.
So I think it's a fair question and certainly we haven't done as well the last couple of years as we did the prior 10.
But I don't think it's because of a dramatic shift in either of those 2 areas.
But if someone asserted there had been some shift I certainly couldn't prove them wrong.
And your next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck at Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I think that there's not many providers would feel like CMS is treating them terribly well nowadays.
But maybe we'll go back to Justin's first question around how the bidding process actually works.
And I guess I understand the concept of not being able to see the plan's full benefits understanding how that flows through but I guess I'm just trying to understand to -- the way I interpreted your response to that question was that you would not really know what rate you're going to get paid until October from the health plans.
And I would think that would make it very difficult for the health plans to bid appropriately not knowing if a major provider's are going to be in their network or out of network and [indiscernible] -- they didn't vote [ph] for you to run your business for the following year without the kind of visibility until October.
So I just want to make sure that I understood that dynamic correctly and to the extent that I did in periods of rate volatility in the past I guess how outside of the expectations did the rate come? How often do you end up terminating in October when you finally see the rates? So let me take a shot at that and perhaps Matthew will chime in as well.
We do not generally need to renegotiate the contracts based on benefit changes because we prenegotiated that material benefit changes that have financial impact will be re-adjudicated and the benefit change is often just member responsibility or beneficiary responsibility versus plan.
So we have the opportunity if there is a shift of copayments et cetera to the beneficiary to collect that directly which has a bit of a neutral offset.
So significant benefit changes that were detrimental to us would in almost all of our contracts require a negotiation which since we are major providers to the health plan and they have been traditionally excellent partners I would say has low probability of the terminations that you suggested.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But do you have preliminary indications at this point? Or is that really still an October time period when you get that visibility? We will not know the final benefit design of the plans until October.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Until then you won't know your final rate until October.
Okay.
And then I guess you kind of alluded to the problems at EBQ [ph] I guess but is it purely an issue of volume shortfall that's creating the problem? Is -- or is there something on the medical management side that's falling short? I guess I am still not clear about what exactly is the shortfall there.
Yes I don't think we want to go into too much detail on one market and some of the competitive dynamics.
It's just not in your best interest.
But suffice it to say when a leading physician group and a leading hospital get into a battle it's expensive.
And it's because of what happens with volume what happens to the rates what happens with referral patterns what happens with also administrative expenses legal expenses PR expenses lobbying expenses so you put all those together and it means that everybody is distracted and not doing as well financially.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess going back to the commentary before about centers that aren't profitable and closing or potentially at risk for closing if the rate cut was to go through as proposed.
Is there any way to get a ballpark number as to how much money is actually being lost in those centers? Is it $50 million? Or is it bigger than that? Or I mean how do we think about the relative size of that? Yes.
And I think I know we've not disclosed that and at least for now won't disclose it.
In some cases it's a tricky analysis because a center that loses money is part of a broader network of centers where we're strongly affiliated with a particular physician group or hospital and so talking about the losses of a particular center in the form of an exact number is kind of tricky in exactly what would happen if you closed it.
And then many other centers are just much more pure-play independent centers that lose money.
So for right now we've not gone through the exercise of trying to segment them into the different categories.
We're just focused on looking at which ones we would very sadly have to close if reimbursement made that a necessity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe last question on a very different topic one that we haven't talked about this couple of quarters but I just want to make sure I'm not going to be surprised by this next year.
Any thoughts on exchanges now that we've gone through exchange contracting? How has that been going for you? Are you getting rates close to commercial? Is there any reason to expect any kind of disruptions as far as whether dialysis is or is not covered under the like I said earlier the payer part on the exchange or that the rates are substantially different than in commercial at this point? Yes in general our position is that our commercial rates are commercial rates and exchanges are commercial patients and commercial enterprises.
And as to the impact of exchanges overall of course you know that nobody -- anybody who forecast that with uncertainty should not be trusted.
But what we said in general is that if you look at the number of additional insured patients we might have but weren't insured before and the rates that they will be reimbursed at versus patients that are currently reimbursed high and move to an exchange where for some reason because of a change in plan or something else or plan design have a lower reimbursement rates that the net of those 4 different vectors we think for us is more likely to be a negative than a positive.
But that's just repeating the same thing we've said for 2 years now.
And beyond that like everyone else we're watching what's going on in every state and don't know what's going to happen.
I do think -- I appreciate the questions and we can come back to you again a little bit later in the queue if that's okay.
And your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich at Piper Jaffray -- I'm sorry Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> No he had it right it was Piper Jaffray.
I guess just going back to HealthCare Partners Kent did you say in your prepared remarks that you had exited a contract? And if so I was just wondering is that why the membership is down sequentially? How much of an impact did that have? Yes that's exactly right.
The sequential decline from Q1 was because we had bad rates in one arrangement and it wasn't going to change.
In fact it was going the wrong direction and so we exited.
It just didn't make sense and it's so important as you know to maintain rate discipline.
Research Division</strong> Will you say -- can you tell us which market that was in? Don't think that's a good idea for you for us to get into too many individual market competitive dynamics.
More often than that that can actually impair our ability to execute on our strategy and do the arrangements that you want us to as much more likely than helping us.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then I was just wondering if you'd maybe talk about the utilization trends that you saw during the quarter and kind of the puts and takes and how that impacted the HCP business.
Before Bob or Matthew answer that let me just go back because I was being a little tentative in one of my answers and I now know I don't need to be that with respect to rates and exchanges up to this point for health plans that want access to our network where we've agreed on them having access to our network we've been successful in getting commercial rates.
That is the dominant reality in that sphere.
And then I'll go back to one thing that Justin brought up too before they answer the question which is parts of that -- what was a little puzzling and surprising about the ESCO announcement is that very senior people at CMS and I mean very senior expressed a real desire to have integrated care happen for a lot more Medicare patients in the Kidney Care program.
And to get a proposal back that's so inconsistent with that was -- is a little bit puzzling although we've got our hypotheses.
But now as to the answer to your question I'll turn to Bob or Matthew.
Nothing specific to add on utilization.
There is volatility as Kent described in quarter-to-quarter numbers in HealthCare Partners.
In the second quarter we had higher-than-anticipated utilization.
There's a variety of reasons why that happens but I don't think it's useful to go into great detail on that.
And so long-term trend we were higher than expected with our great expectation that our coordinated care services and attention to detail will get us back on trend.
Research Division</strong> Bob I just kind of want to follow up on that.
It seems like everyplace else where -- all the other providers are really talking about lower utilization and is it really just the patient population in the markets that you guys are in which is why you're seeing higher-than-expected utilization trends? I think this was a one -- a quarterly issue.
And I think overall our utilization trends compare very favorably with what you're seeing in the market.
We did have which ultimately we believe will be good news significant new member growth which Kent described in those new members often come in with deferred health care needs which of course we take care of as quickly as we can.
So I think that may play a part of it.
I'm not going to -- as you saw a 20% year-over-year growth in MA in our legacy markets is very substantial and hopeful signs for future margins on that patient volume.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one more on dialysis if I could.
Lot's been talked about with rebasing in the proposal.
But I think Jim said LeAnne is on the call and I'm just curious what the conversations are like on The Hill and DC and how the efforts are going.
LeAnne take it away.
Yes we have been working late in the last 3 weeks with the House.
And we did get a letter in support of looking fairly at reimbursement from 205 signatories so that was very good.
We're also working with the Senate Finance Committee as we did before the rule was out to take a next step in pursuing appropriate reimbursement.
We're also working with some non-Senate Finance Senate members until like we are getting good education and good response to help us work appropriately with the agency.
Is that responsive? Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And LeAnne is it -- can you go ahead and disclose -- I know the entire community is scared and communicating proportionate to that fear.
Can you -- is it fair to let the group know how many emails and letters have come from the DaVita community alone to people on The Hill? Sure.
We have topped the 80 000 mark.
And as Kent said a number of the other organizations and coalitions have letter-writing campaigns and advocacy campaigns and those numbers are getting quite significant as well.
So very good uniform effort through the community.
Yes.
There's never been such pervasive fear.
And your next question comes from Matthew Borsch at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe if you can talk about how are you working with private payers on reimbursement in that front? Are you -- I guess the question I'm asking is are you seeing any pushback there on their effective subsidization of the dialysis program? Or is the fact that they can also see this Medicare rate update scaring them away from even trying to impact the reimbursement on the commercial side? The answer is they will push back on rates as aggressively as they always have and as we would if we were in their chairs.
Now having said that the laws of gravity can't be disputed.
And if we take a reimbursement cut that means we and all sorts of dialysis providers will have to draw a different line in the sand in trading off price versus volume because you can't survive otherwise.
So they will push as vigorously as they always have.
However a cut does mean that everybody has to be even stronger in their resistance to that because it's so important.
Research Division</strong> And if I could ask a question on the pipeline for HealthCare Partners.
As you think about those opportunities relative to opportunities that have come up since you closed or even before you closed and in instances where hospitals and health plans have been willing maybe to offer higher amounts than you thought was prudent for some of these physician groups where they've come up for sale is that dynamic something that you expect to change? Do you think that there are groups that are willing to think longer term than just the immediate price that they might get and think longer term about which model will work best? Well we certainly believe so and hope so.
The attractiveness we believe of a patient- and physician-centric clinical model is very attractive to physicians everywhere.
And as you referenced the robustness of our pipeline is not just physician groups that we are talking to but payers that would like our model to be translated into markets that they have significant market share shared participation arrangements with hospitals that are trying to learn how to take on and manage risk.
And so I think there's a much broader universe than just the relative number of physician groups up for sale some of whom will gravitate towards highest price and some of them towards sort of cultural alignment.
Research Division</strong> And is the challenge for the company now to have the -- to build up the business development assets to be able to simultaneously go at different complicated opportunities in many different geographic markets? I think that's a fair statement and why Kent referenced the significant work we're doing to build the as he puts it the muscles of our business development team using a lot of the growth and knowledge and experience of our DaVita teammates who have done these for years successfully and the HealthCare Partner capabilities translated into coordinated and accountable care in many many more markets where we believe the country is moving inexorably away from fee-for-volume to fee-for-value.
Research Division</strong> And let me just if I could ask a question on the integrated care pilot.
And you got this question before but have you considered where you could be maybe an MA-plan sponsor yourself not in competition with payers generally but just for the purposes of the dialysis patients and take it on that way? We would love to.
There's a whole bunch of structural obstacles to our being able to do that.
However we think about it every year because we know we have such a powerful value proposition to bring to bear.
It's just that there's not a clear rifle shot nothing close to it in terms of an ability to have that manifest itself in a commercially reasonable and sustainable way.
And your next question comes from the line of Ben Andrew at William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a question about the dual eligibles opportunity.
With some of the states delaying implementation of their programs it does seem like California might still be moving forward.
Is there any update there plans or how that may shake out for you guys over the next year or so? You're absolutely right.
The states are all in a state of negotiation and discussion.
California does seem committed to rolling out a modified dual eligible program meaning -- modified meaning smaller than everybody in the counties that were approved.
There is still intense discussion that we're told about but not participating in between the states and CMS over how this will be reimbursed and where the responsibility will lie for certain risks.
We believe we are well positioned if the revenue meets the risk to be a very active participant in the dual program in the 2 largest counties Los Angeles and Orange County that are going to have approximately 200 000 dually eligible patients in the program.
Research Division</strong> Interesting okay.
And so can you talk a little bit about how they may affect the 2 different sides of the business? And so specifically in dialysis what -- that is -- is that what you're referring to there? Or is that a separate opportunity? I'm sorry could you repeat the question? Research Division</strong> The question is how that affects the different parts of the business because if I was talking about the 200 000 patients is -- was this specifically referring to your overall HCP business and then how would that affect perhaps the dialysis side? So let me speak to the 200 000.
That 200 000 currently fee-for-service dually eligible patients that will be eligible and will be assigned to a managed Medicaid and presumably a managed Medicare program.
So that's where the population helps the health care partner piece potentially in the future.
And then on the dual side for Kidney Care about half of our patients are duals.
And so to the extent any of them become a part of other programs that are risk programs we become a very attractive subcontractor to whoever has the global risk.
Having said that there's been a lot of talk about duals for a while and the pace at which stuff is happening is pretty slow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we shouldn't expect a meaningful update there; probably some time next year perhaps? Well we hope.
They're only a couple of decisions away but you never know when they're going to be made.
I think that the net for you guys is -- the good news is the long-term potential is immense and quite sustainable because there's so much waste.
But predicting when they're going to actually make final decisions and implement and how much the architecture will really reflect the need to create rational incentives for people to make the big investments predicting those 2 things is sort of a level of speculation we're not comfortable with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe a quick question for Jim on the expense side and on the international side.
It looks like you lost a fair bit less money in international this quarter even as you are investing.
How should we think about that quarterly over the next year in terms of the losses versus what you had projected before? Well we still expect our international losses to be in the range of $30 million for the year and that's assuming that we don't do any large -- start up any large programs late in the year.
If we do then those numbers may change.
But that's -- we were happy to see those losses trim down to $6 million in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then another thing on the P&amp;L we noticed was obviously the gross margin came down but SG&amp;A kind of came down but in a commensurate amount.
Do you feel like you have a fair bit more leverage to absorb some of the volatility in HCP to the extent that that materializes? Or how should we think about those -- that margin opportunity as things shake out? I'm not clear on the question whether it's HCP or Kidney Care or consolidated.
Research Division</strong> It's really consolidated Kent.
I mean it's thinking through kind of the moving pieces and you missed on gross margin but you also exceeded in terms of performance on controlling costs on the SG&amp;A side.
And how controllable that is versus things that are sort of if you will done to you each quarter? Boy I don't know how to answer.
We certainly can't move G&amp;A down quarter-by-quarter based on a retroactive recognition of what happened on the reimbursement side and utilization side.
And so first with respect to whatever happened coincidentally this quarter I don't think want to draw any broad conclusions from that as to our ability to juggle these things.
Second are we going to look for SG&amp;A savings in 2014 versus '13? On both sides of the house the answer is yes.
So the -- we will not come back to you with a 0 answer on that.
Just on the HCP side it's not going to be enough to offset all the cuts.
In the Kidney Care side we don't know yet if we have a cut to offset.
But certainly the one proposed would be impossible to come anywhere close to offsetting it.
And your next question comes from the line of John Ransom at Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I think we're all in discovery mode with HealthCare Partners.
I know you're not going to have great information as you said until the fall.
But maybe if you look back in history what has happened historically when your major partners let's say Humana and United people like that end up getting 5% to 7% cuts sequentially.
Have you ever seen anything of that magnitude in your history? And historically how have they acted with their downstream partners versus their benefit design? That might be helpful.
John Bob and Matthew will answer.
But before they do let me just announce that I've got a conversation booked with a former government official.
It's important I go do that.
The rest of the team will be here to continue to take questions.
And if in any instance there's a question where someone feels that my perspective is important beyond that which the team offered we can take care of that over the next week or 2.
So thank you all for your consideration and interest in us and we will do our best here in the quarters and years to come.
But now Bob and Matthew the question.
I think the quick and easy answer is that the health plans have not been faced with this type of cut in the last many years and so they're all reacting as well.
And not being a health plan executive I can't pretend to say what they're doing in their -- inside of their offices but I think reflecting the past comments they are trying to assess the market position relative to their competitors and whether they're going to lose market share if they trim benefits too much versus gain market share and have lower margins if they don't.
And the fact is CMS puts some limits on how much they could push these benefit changes down to the beneficiary.
The good news is that in the markets we serve there remains a considerable difference between the value proposition for MA and Medicare fee-for-service and that none of our markets even have a MA premium for instance where that is prevalent in some of the lower-paid markets that you might be aware of.
So there is a fair amount of room to maintain growth and continue at being a good product even if some benefit changes to the beneficiaries are in the direction that the beneficiaries would rather not see.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And my other question Humana has said they want to have much more of their book sub-capitated than they have today.
Do you see any evidence of that downstream to you? Or if so when might you see and what would that look like exactly do you think? Well as -- I think it's a great question and a business opportunity.
As you may now in all of our markets we are capitated with our major health plans.
So when they make that kind of comment it's not relative to the more sophisticated organizations such as HealthCare Partners but to other parts of the country where they've not been able to find capable risk-bearing physician organizations.
And of course that is the formula that we plan to use to offer up to accountable organizations elsewhere.
So when Humana or others talk to us about new market entry it's very specifically because of the problem that they're trying to address which is they would like to go to capitated relationships.
To align the incentives we're recognizing in capitated relationships the incentives are to keep the patients well healthy delay or prevent chronic disease avoidable admissions readmissions and the like whereas fee-for-service those incentives do not exist and it's one of the main drivers of the health care cost conundrum the country faces.
And your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor at Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
The first I was probably hoping to get Kent's perspective but I'm sure someone else can tackle it.
I guess I was hoping you can maybe reconcile the thought that negative dialysis margins are an important part of the lobbying position of the industry with respect to the proposed rebasing cuts and I think this is an important part so I just want to understand the reconciliation.
If we go -- if we look at the MedPAC report based on the last analysis they did of 2010 they showed 2.3% positive margins for the whole industry.
I'd presume because of DaVita's scale your margins might be a little better than that and then certainly margins improved once the bundle was implemented in 2011.
So how do we get back to negative overall Medicare margins? Is the MedPAC analysis just completely flawed in your opinion? Yes this is LeAnne.
Yes let me take that.
Hey no the MedPAC analysis is based on the cost reports that we file.
As Kent mentioned one of the most significant drivers of our difference is the let's call it uncompensated care bucket the unreimbursed coinsurance which is therefore also not reimbursed through the bad debt policies.
And so our biggest concern about any analysis that's done by the government whether that be MedPAC or CMS itself is that they're presumption is that primarily that the co-pay is 100% collected and it's not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So even net of Medicaid contribution on dual eligible that would net out to overall negative including that that's the case? Correct that's a fair point.
There's some other costs in the cost report which are not recognized as we take exception for.
But as a vehicle of how they do analysis they strictly maintain the cost report filing data and don't consider these other factors.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And my second question is a little bit of a cleanup from last quarter when you booked the legal reserve for the issues with respect to the physician relationships.
And I've had a few clients ask the question so I thought I might pose it here.
And the question is is it contemplated once that settlement is reached if it's reached that there's any material change to physician ownership percentage in the JVs? Any material change to operating practices or if this really is perhaps paperwork-type changes for lack of a better characterization? Yes.
Gary this is Jim.
And those conversations are ongoing right now on the settlement.
Our goal as we said last quarter is to ensure that we have clarification and that is a level-playing field going forward.
But to talk about the nature of those discussions doesn't make sense until we have clarity on that.
And your next question comes from the line of Frank Morgan at RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two quick questions maybe not answering this specifically but maybe just a comment about directionally can you talk about what your commercial mix of business is? How -- which way it's trending on the dialysis side is it increasing decreasing or flat? Yes I mentioned this earlier in my prepared remarks.
This is Jim Hilger Frank.
Our commercial mix in the quarter improved slightly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly on -- in terms of -- if there is a need to close centers as a result let's just say worst-case scenario this proposed rule stands is there anything any type of -- what would be the characteristics of the centers you'd be more likely to close? I mean are these that are presumably losing more money? Are they -- is it smaller markets larger markets? Is there anything that we could look for in terms of those centers that might be closed? Yes this is LeAnne.
The commonality of those facilities are that they are high Medicare Medicaid share.
So that could be a very inner city units and it can be the very rural units.
Both of those frequently do not have sufficient private pay patients to cross-subsidize the Medicare shortfall.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So will there be a priority of one over the other in terms of the magnitude of wealth albeit versus inner city versus rural? No.
I think they're both on the list and each center will be evaluated independently.
And your next question comes from the line of Dana Nenton [ph] at Deutsche Bank.
Just wanted to clarify something from earlier was the earn-out adjustment from the original HCP deal or were there any other subsequent deals in there? No that earn-out adjustment that we called out in our earnings release in our call today was related to the HCP acquisition which closed in November of 2012 and just to make sure I got my numbers right because I may have just supposed a number in there we had initially recorded a fair value of approximately $125 million through our purchase accounting of HCP in that transaction.
And that -- we have adjusted that by $57 million and are now -- the fair value that we are placing on that earn-out obligation is approximately $69 million.
And I believe -- Yes I'm going to say I believe that's the last of the questions in the queue.
So again I want to thank everybody for your interest in the company.
And as Kent always says we will strive to continue to do well with your money over the next quarter and look forward to talking to you in the future.
Thanks.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Ryan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the DaVita HealthCare Partners Q3 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn our call over to Jim Gustafson.
You may begin.
Thank you Ryan and welcome everyone to our Third Quarter Conference Call.
We appreciate your continued interest in the company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations.
And with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Bob Margolis the CEO of HealthCare Partners; Matthew Mazdyasni HealthCare Partners' Executive Vice President and CFO; Jim Hilger our Chief Accounting Officer and interim CFO; and Garry Menzel our incoming CFO; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meanings of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Jim and welcome to everyone.
This quarter we performed consistent with our overall enterprise guidance for 2013 in fact near the high end of the range that consisted of continued solid performance in our kidney care business and HealthCare Partners performing at the lower end of the guidance range.
On a separate subject we continue to generate strong aggregate cash flows.
While this quarter was unusually strong and therefore should not be extrapolated from our trailing 12-month operating cash flow is representable and is $1.6 billion or has been $1.6 billion.
I'll discuss 5 topics: Clinical performance HealthCare Partners' performance public policy update an update on our legal issues and then the outlook.
Now first as always our clinical outcomes because we are first and foremost a caregiving company we now serve in kidney care approximately 161 000 dialysis patients in the U.S.
alone about 1 out of every 3 in America.
With respect to adequacy 98% of our hemodialysis patients had a Kt/V that would be greater than 1.2.
With respect to vascular access 72% of our patients have fistulas.
And our 2012 patient gross mortality rate was down to 13.9% a drop of 9% over the prior year and you can do the math and see how many human beings that kind of drop affects.
And in fact our gross mortality rate has now dropped 27% or so over the last 12 years both a big number cumulatively but particularly impressive number recently.
Our patient outcomes continue to compare very favorably across the board to national averages which also means we're setting [ph] money for payers and taxpayers.
With respect to clinical metrics for HealthCare Partners.
Medicare Advantage plans are benchmarked against the HEDIS measures as many of you know.
Last quarter we talked a little bit about our 2012 performance in California at HCP.
This quarter we'll compare our results in Florida to that same national data for Medicare HMO patients.
And our MA patients in Florida once again scored near the top across a wide variety of metrics I'll just cite a couple.
We were above the 75th percentile with respect to screening for colorectal cancer and diabetic LDL numbers.
In the first case 72% of patients being screened and the second 61%.
And then we're above the 90th percentile with respect to female patients being screened for breast cancer with 85%.
So these and other clinical outcomes at HealthCare Partners continue to compare very favorably to national averages.
And once again not only result in better clinical outcomes but also higher patient satisfaction higher physician satisfaction and savings.
Also HealthCare Partners in California was named the top performing medical group for the 10th consecutive year by a reputable Integrated Healthcare Association.
Next I'll turn to HealthCare Partners operating performance.
It did improve $17 million sequentially as you no doubt have already noted.
It's due primarily to an annual Q3 premium reconciliation for our MA members secondarily from increased patient volume from acquisitions and same market growth.
As our Medicare capitated member months were up 5% over the prior quarter.
One specific aspect of this growth was our acquisition of Arizona Integrated Physicians a leading IPA network in Arizona with over 700 physicians that currently provide integrated care to approximately 20 000 MA patients in Arizona.
And as many of you will recall this is our second step following our partnership with SCAN a plan where we began providing integrated care to 13 000 MA patients earlier in the year.
And in this market we look forward to working collaboratively with local hospitals to do good work for those patients and payers.
Next onto public policy.
The government has announced that they are reopening the ESCO application process that's the kidney care integrated care pilot process.
And so we want to offer our heartfelt applause to CMS and CMMI for doing that and we are eager eager eager to work with them to find a way to make that program work.
As many of you know we have demonstrated how this model can work.
And in fact our Special Needs Plan in California received a 92% patient satisfaction rating which was the highest among all Special Needs Plans in California.
So it's not only working clinically it's not only working economically but it's generating an unusual and distinctive patient satisfaction score.
In kidney care we do expect the final 2014 Medicare reimbursement rates to come out later this month.
I want to remind you that if there are significant cuts we will be forced to close a number of centers.
We will do this in a responsible way of course to ensure continuity of care for our patients.
But these changes could impact our treatment growth numbers year-over-year in the way that you would expect.
In addition to the Medicare cuts that may happen we also have potential hits due to increased commercial rate pressure and the potential impact of the exchanges and so we will be looking to do some expense pruning wherever we can although we cannot put a number on that at this time.
Next an update on our investigations and lawsuits.
Based on our continuing settlement discussions with the government we have increased the legal contingency reserve for the physician relationship investigations by $97 million.
This of course reflects our current assessment.
To be clear we're seeking resolution of these related matters and we may or may not be able to reach a settlement.
And it just won't be appropriate to provide any further details on this as these discussions are ongoing highly confidential and we've not yet reached resolution.
Next our outlook.
Looking beyond 2013 staring at 2014 we look forward to discussing this with you in much greater analytical and strategic detail at our Capital Markets Day in New York City on Monday December 9.
But let's cover a few things now in order to try to be helpful to you.
2014 will be a challenging year.
HealthCare Partners operating income will be down significantly.
Kidney care operating income is almost certain to be down perhaps significantly.
In our HealthCare Partners business we face large MA rate cuts as you know.
And in general payers are not doing a lot of adjusting down of benefit design therefore making it more difficult to offset the cuts.
The silver lining in that particular fact is that this should lead to stable MA volume growth.
From kidney care it's worth talking in more depth about the pressures we face on 4 fronts.
Number one potentially large Medicare rate cuts as you know.
Number two commercial rate pressure.
We have been told by a large payer that they have convinced a large provider to trade price reductions for volume and aggressively so.
This is something our investors and prospective investors need to know and be concerned about.
It is unclear if these recent actions will provoke a period of pervasively lower reimbursement.
But given the economic reality of our community this is concerning.
We operate in a low fixed cost and high variable cost business where the higher commercial rates from the 10% of our patients who are commercial are essential to subsidize the losses from the 90% of our patients that are Medicare and so it's a very dangerous trade-off to make.
Item #3 exchanges and the policy surrounding exchanges.
Well on that we've said for the last 2 years that there's more downside than upside.
And this appears to be even more so the case now than it did several months ago.
And then fourth and finally in addition to those 3 items of clear earnings headwinds that were just described it's worthwhile for all of us just to step back and look at some of the tectonic plate shifting going on in American health care that will affect kidney care.
The exchanges the physician acquisition binge or surge by hospitals the emergence of ACO risk seeking organization all of that and other factors probably not worth enumerating in detail create a formidable and historically unusual amount of uncertainty.
The good news is that these dynamics will likely create some attractive opportunities.
The bad news is they will also create some negative impacts which could be quite material and could happen before the opportunities manifest it -- themselves in any kind of new earnings trajectory.
In addition to just dealing with the new dynamics we'll consume substantial time and capital.
So in summary for kidney care we are entering into a distinctively challenging period ahead.
Stepping back in a final comment regarding the overall enterprise we have strong assets we have strong capabilities in many areas that are relevant for health care and where it is going or where it needs to go and we have strong cash flows.
And as an enterprise we look forward to pursuing the opportunities.
We also have a lot of respect for the challenges that we face.
I'll now turn the call over to Jim Hilger our interim CFO.
Thanks Kent.
First I'd like to cover a few more dialysis operating metrics.
Our non-acquired growth in the quarter was 5.4% when normalized for days of the week.
And our U.S.
dialysis revenue per treatment was up $1.13 from the prior quarter.
This was impacted by annual patient vaccinations as well as an improvement in average commercial rates partially offset by a slight decline in commercial mix.
Our dialysis patient care costs increased $1.49 per treatment from the prior quarter driven primarily by higher compensation costs slightly increased pharma utilization and the seasonal administration of flu vaccines offset by certain other costs including the expenses related to our annual leadership meeting which was held in the second quarter.
Our dialysis G&amp;A cost per treatment increased $1.41 from the prior quarter primarily due to a $9 million write-off of certain obsolete IT assets.
And during the quarter we experienced $8 million in international losses.
We continue to expect international losses for 2013 to be less than $30 million excluding any impact of ramping up operations for the following government tenders we have recently been awarded.
In Saudi Arabia we've been notified formerly by the government that we have been awarded a contract that will increase our participation there but we have not yet negotiated final terms of this contract.
In Colombia we've been awarded a contract that will result in our building 10 new centers to serve more than 1 000 additional patients nearly doubling our presence in the country.
Next with HCP.
HealthCare Partners operating income was $98 million in the quarter up $17 million from the prior quarter as Kent previously discussed.
For the overall enterprise our debt expense was $108 million in the third quarter consistent with what we guided last quarter.
The effective tax rate attributable to DaVita HealthCare Partners was 38.3% in the quarter.
This excludes the impact of the increase in the loss contingency reserve recorded and the effects of a FIN 48 adjustment related to tax assets which were created through the HCP acquisition escrow provisions.
This Q3 adjustment resulted in an $8 million increase in corporate G&amp;A expense offset by an equal reduction in income tax expense.
You should expect similar adjustments will be likely to recur in the third quarter of the next few years.
Note that we now expect a tax rate of 39% to 40% for 2013 excluding the impact of the items mentioned above and the HCP earnout adjustment.
Next we've made some changes to our 2013 operating income guidance.
Kidney care operating income is now expected to be in the range of $1.5 billion to $1.52 billion.
And the guidance range for HealthCare Partners operating income is now $380 million to $400 million and there is a chance we may fall below this range.
The net impact of both of these results in a slight increase on our overall guidance to a new range of $1.88 billion to $1.92 billion.
These guidance ranges exclude the impact of any legal settlement to the physician relationship investigations impact from the change in value of the 2013 earnout associated with the HealthCare Partners' transaction and the just mentioned Q3 tax-related adjustment.
As always our guidance ranges capture the majority of probabilistic outcomes on a number of swing factors.
Now turning to cash flow operating cash flow in the quarter was strong at $733 million.
Cash flow in the quarter benefited from the timing of compensation payments other working capital items and cash taxes.
Please note that some of these items are likely to reverse in the fourth quarter.
And due to the strong continued cash -- this continued strong cash flow we have increased our cash flow guidance.
Our updated expectation for 2013 operating cash flow is now between $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion.
This guidance excludes the impact of any potential legal settlement payment we may make related to the physician relationship investigations.
And before we go to Q&amp;A I would like to welcome our incoming CFO Garry Menzel who is with us today.
As previously announced Garry will assume the CFO role after our third quarter 10-Q is filed.
It's been a pleasure to be your interim CFO.
I will be remaining with the company in my ongoing role as Chief Accounting Officer and I look forward to working with Garry.
And with that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I guess Kent wanted to go back to your comments about reimbursement and the exchanges.
Just wondering do you think this will be a net positive impact for you? And then on top of that with some policies being canceled do you think you're going to see any impact on payment for treatments? Thanks Kevin.
As we've said for a year or 2 there is more downside in the exchanges than upside for us for reasons that we can go in to if people want.
And our assessment of that has only increased in the sense that we now see more downside in the way exchanges are unfolding than we did 6 months ago or whenever other recent times for a whole bunch of different factors.
So we see much more downside in exchanges both in terms of probability and amount than we did earlier in the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think today or yesterday we came across an article about a strategic partnership with a little company called CVRx.
I think they went through some financing.
Could you give us little bit more details of what's behind this partnership? In general in the years to come we intend to do more partnership with medical device companies in particular and in some cases pharma to help new technologies come in and penetrate the kidney care and HealthCare Partners space in a way which will allow us to do an even better job of population health management.
And that's the strategic context within which we did the CVRx deal.
And I would think over the 2 3 years -- I would hope over the next 2 to 3 years you'll see us do a couple more things like that to continue to drive medical innovation and hopefully improve our value added to all stakeholders.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then lastly on HCP saw capitated membership increase sequentially this quarter.
Obviously the -- you guys moved into the Arizona market.
Just wondering if you could provide an update how's that going? And I guess what's your view on expansion into other markets at this point? I would say on HCP and growth we are making steady but unimpressive progress on building our growth capability.
In part we say unimpressive because we have so much interest from so many different actors both payers and hospital systems and physician groups that we measure our capability against the amount of opportunity that's presented itself.
So I think that's how I would characterize our progress right now and our rate of progress.
And then separate from that even as we improve our capability when you take on a new book of business there is some lag time in introducing our capabilities into that new environment building relationships sometimes closing contracts changing operating processes et cetera.
And so unfortunately we can't point to any near-term pickup in anything other than the expenses it will take in order to enhance our capability.
Is that responsive Kevin? Research Division</strong> It is.
I just noticed your tone tonight seems more pessimistic than we've heard in quite some time.
Your next question comes from Justin Lake from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'll jump right in first on HCP.
Kent you mentioned HealthCare Partners is likely to have operating income down significantly.
So looking to see if you could share any more color on that in terms of should we be thinking double digits? And then secondly you mentioned that payers are not cutting benefits to the extent you hoped they might to help offset the rate cuts to your bottom line.
I'm just wondering on the long-term implications here for the business in terms of these payer negotiations and specifically on the capitation percentages that they are giving you does that all have to be revisited given the way these negotiations went? Okay let me take a cut Justin and I might ask for help from Bob or Matthew whom are both right here and you can come back at me.
The primary driver of the reduction in HCP operating income is really straightforward.
It's the changes to Medicare Advantage reimbursement and that was a big number as we talked about as soon as it came out.
And there's just no way to mitigate all of it.
So that's by far the biggest driver.
And then of course we're going out and negotiating as best we can with our different payers to try to get some shared investment as we deal with that rate cut.
And we'll have some successes and some failures but there's just no way that we'll do anything with any other entity that will allow us to offset the magnitude of those cuts.
Is that -- did I respond Justin? Research Division</strong> Sure.
I guess the -- maybe if I -- specifically on the magnitude of the cut when you say significantly I think we all expected the margins to be down here.
But I'm just wondering is it significantly down double digits in terms of operating earnings? I think the bulk of that conversation should be left for the Capital Markets Justin.
But when we say significantly I certainly wouldn't rule out double digits.
But I think we are going to shed a lot more light on this when we can go through a lot more analysis as well as have the additional data from the intervening month.
Research Division</strong> And then the other part I was asking is just strategically the -- given the value that you -- that HCP brings to the table in terms of the plan relationship one might have thought that the plans might have been willing to lower benefits a bit and allow you to keep some of your economics rather than take most of it to your bottom line.
And I'm just curious given that doesn't seem to have happened or happened to the extent you might have hoped are -- is there something you can do beyond that in terms of what I was asking is can you renegotiate your capitation rates or do you even think strategically about potentially even offering your own plans in the market? Well with respect to rates I'll just repeat.
We -- in times like this we do go back and see what we can get.
And we will have some victories and we will have some defeats but there's no sort of systemic reality to share with you that would help you evaluate anything beyond what we've already said.
And then what was the second part Justin? Research Division</strong> Would you even think strategically of kind of pivoting to offering your own plans given the amount of value you bring to the table relative to the health plan? Yes.
We would never preclude being our own plan strategically.
At the same time in most places what we want is to have an excellent partnership with our existing plans and so that's where we start.
Having said that over the course of time we wouldn't be at all surprised if in some situation it made sense for us to be a plan either in equity partnership with some other plan or alone.
But job 1 for us is to become great partners for our existing plans that we work with.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just my last question is on the payer contract.
Can you give us any color here on maybe the size of the payer that is talking about shifting payments for lower -- patients for lower rates or any color on the geographies that might be impacted? It's a large payer who's talking about a large provider.
And it's a broad geography.
Research Division</strong> Is this similar to what you saw in I think it was 2008 2009 in that time period where there was some instance like this and then it seemed to moderate or is this even bigger? If we're thinking of the same one Justin that was in a single state and this is not.
Your next question comes from the line of Whit Mayo from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious the original HCP guidance was $400 million to $450 million and I thought the earnout was somewhere in that range.
Can you just maybe help me understand what triggered the payout of the full earnout when it looks like you guys might be running below $400 million now? And certainly the outlook for 2014 is less than optimistic currently? Okay.
Let me see if I can clarify a couple of things.
What we negotiated halfway through the year when the probability of hitting the earnout target appeared to be about 50-50 and not having it resolved was getting in the way of some decision-making.
We negotiated with HealthCare Partners their shareholder representative a 50-50 split.
So the entire earnout was not paid for 2013 just half of it.
And that amount was about $68 million or something like that which is about a 1.5% increase of the aggregate consideration.
So that's the math and that's the logic.
Can I shed any more light on it for you? Research Division</strong> No that's helpful.
And maybe just back to the conversation around the exchanges and it does seem like you have some strong feelings now versus prior calls on the potential downside risk for -- with regards to how this will all work.
But maybe elaborate a little bit more on some of the specific details that have come to light to perhaps change your stance on this risk factor? Right very fair question.
The dominant reason is just that there are more people both companies and individuals with private insurance talking about going on the exchanges.
Now we all know of the travails that they're having and that might change reality a lot for us depending on how all that comes out which we don't have any particular insight into.
But if you just ignore the technical difficulties that are currently being experienced that the data that preceded these technical glitches was that there were going to be more people with private insurance checking out the exchanges with great interest or being put into them than was originally thought by just about anyone.
And then in addition as some narrow networks have taken shape we want to respect the fact that some of those narrow networks may not include us and could lead to a loss of patient -- new patient volume.
Is that responsive? Research Division</strong> Yes so it sounds like it's a 2-part answer.
There's some concern about the go-forward degradation in the existing individual market and I suppose that ties into MSP and then the second is just the evolution of narrow networks.
Is that fair? Yes that is fair.
Although my first point just had to do with more people going on the exchanges period more people with private insurance as opposed to being anything in particular with respect to MSP which is a little bit of a different issue although it overlaps.
Your next question comes from Gary Lieberman from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just maybe to follow up on the last question on the exchanges.
I guess that would mean you would expect to get a lower rate from a plan on the exchanges is that -- where the detriment would come from or is there another way to think about it? With us it is more likely that we won't see the patient because we wouldn't agree to a lower rate.
And so if somebody else does we won't see that new patient somebody else will.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is that tied into the comment you made about a -- another provider potentially competing on price is that in some way related to the exchanges do you think? Not clear yet not clear at all.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there -- I guess did the payer give you any inkling on timing for I guess when the contract would come due or when would you expect the timing to be when you might feel some impact from it? We're in the mix right now.
But I think it would not be a good idea for us to go into more detail.
What was important for us fulfilling our responsibilities to you our shareholders was to let you know that this was going on and what this large payer had told us was underlying some of it.
And so we felt an obligation to share that information.
At the same time going into a lot more detail is probably not a good idea.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
What's changed I guess to make you maybe more concerned about what the outcome might be from the past? Because I guess in the past you've spoken of similar issues and it seems like the company has always come through it fairly well for whatever reason whether it's your negotiating ability your market share or a combination of the 2.
Has something changed that would lead you or lead us to believe that it might have a different outcome this time? Well I think whenever something like this has happened in an intense way we used to share it with you because it's our job.
And because for us to be sort of blithely confident that it will all work out fine seems inappropriate.
We will certainly do absolutely the best we can.
And the good news is we have just this wonderful quality story to tell both in terms of clinical outcomes and the care and concern demonstrated in our centers.
But we can't take something like this lightly when it's happening in such an intense way.
And then I think you put it in the context of everything else I referred to which is just stuff going on at the same time with exchanges and employers doing new things and physicians doing new things and hospitals buying more physicians and multi-specialty groups growing and the list goes on and on that in the context of such a dynamic environment with so many crumbling boundaries and moving parts the same type of thing that maybe has happened once or twice in the past is I think even more potentially disruptive.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on your comments about HCP.
Certainly the tone seems more negative.
I guess compared to last quarter when maybe the tone wasn't quite as negative is there anything specific you could point to? Is it the -- that you see -- you haven't seen the benefit designs change as much as you thought or has something else changed to lead you to believe that you're not going to be able to abate as much as maybe you had in the past? No.
Let me try on that one because there's never been a need to abate or mitigate against something of this size or at least not for a long time so there's no good analog for it.
And the fact is without this big rate cut which was larger than anyone expected in that space we would be I think all quite happy with the conversation that we're having today.
And so it's important to separate out this extreme reimbursement change from the underlying recurring economics of our business.
At the same time we want to make sure that while shareholders understand the tremendous interest there is from lots of parties to work with us.
We also simultaneously want to remind you that one doesn't just partner with somebody flip a switch and start generating the same kind of results in new markets as in the historic legacy markets.
And so that story is both a big positive and as we build our capability an achievable positive but it has quite a lag time associated with it.
So is that helpful? You got the big rate cut story and then you've got this big growth issue.
And underneath growth part A is not a demand and part B is slow implementation time.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I guess if I could just follow up on that the -- it's not new news that there was going to be a rate cut.
We've known about that for some time.
And even last quarter in terms of the growth regarding HCP your comments were somewhat negative.
I guess I'm just -- If there's something specific or is it -- because I guess it's hard just to discern the difference in the negativity of the tone versus something material that you could discuss that has made you more negative about it.
Let me go ahead and just say we hadn't provided 2014 guidance earlier so this is the first time really talking about it.
And in the interim period is where we experienced the disappointing reality of payers not making material adjustments to their benefit design.
So that's a big piece of incremental news which unfortunately was a negative.
Now again it's a negative with that silver lining of had they done a bunch of benefit design cuts that might have actually reduced MA volume growth.
And so there's an interesting strategic trade-off there.
Nonetheless we didn't expect them to do so few benefit changes and that's where you get a lot of serious incremental short-term math because that -- those economics hits you right away day 1 whereas any economic benefit of growth is significantly delayed.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could sneak one final one in.
There was a comment about a write-off of $9 million of the IT asset.
Which line did that flow through on? Amortization expense in our G&amp;A.
And that's kidney care by the way.
Your next question comes from Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Few things here.
I guess I wanted to just start with a question on HCP.
Obviously you we're about a year into the ABQ situation.
And I guess I wanted to get an update given that open enrollment for MA is upon us.
Has your contracting strategy been resolved there? Can you just update us on how you think that looks going into 2014? And have you been able to stabilize the patient base there? Well fair question Darren.
We are -- at this point we would predict that we are going to complete a new deal that will significantly improve our performance there.
But it is not done yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so fair to say you're still in negotiation or have you reached some tentative terms on that deal I'm assuming you're referring to with Lovelace? Yes I don't -- not appropriate to go into detail for all the reasons you know Darren as frustrating as it is for both of us not to be able to talk about them.
And we certainly have the reason we're predicting we're going to get something done is because we've reached agreement on a lot of important stuff.
But as you know until something is done it's not done.
And so we have to give you kind of the unsatisfying answer that we are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that's a helpful status update that you're optimistic you'll have a deal.
All right.
And then I wanted to switch gears to just DaVita Rx if I could.
There was a big transition of some of the Fresenius patients using your I guess infrastructure DaVita Rx.
And I'm wondering if you can just update us has any of the transition started to occur? I think you originally referred to second half of this year.
And how will that play out I guess over time? And maybe any general sizing of your DaVita Rx business at this stage of the game.
The implementation of our relationship with FMC is underway.
And of course it -- our relationship with FMC is multifaceted with Rx being one piece of it.
And so that implementation is going smoothly.
And as to expected to aggregate Rx economics I think our custom has been not to share those and I wouldn't want to start doing that on an ad hoc ad lib basis.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know I guess I wasn't looking for economics related to this specifically just a general sizing of Rx at this point.
It is -- what would be the right qualitative way to summarize? It is significant.
And let me just sort of let people confer a little bit and see what additional information we can safely provide okay? And -- but go ahead with another question while they're doing that.
Research Division</strong> Yes just maybe a couple other things here and I'll jump.
I appreciate you conferring there.
So in Footnote 5 you've got the total care dollars under management for HCP.
And it looks like the institutional capitation amounts have been pretty stable the last couple of quarters but we obviously saw higher risk-sharing revenues in the third quarter.
I'm just wondering Matt maybe if you can help us think about that and how it sort of moves sequentially what fourth quarter typically looks like relative to that line item? I just -- we're still all getting a hang of HCP quarter-to-quarter.
Yes Darren.
So part of the MA capitation reconciliation and what we did in the third quarter also reflect on those hospital funding that you're referring to so that's obviously moves with enrollment.
But it should be stable for the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so it would be stable with third quarter levels is that what you're suggesting? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then the last question is just more along the lines of what I think you mentioned before there was $9 million write-off and there was $7.7 million or call it $8 million of tax adjustments in HCP.
So $17 million that got flowed through OI just the way you've reported it.
Are those things that you typically would x out? Because I guess when I think about it it's $0.08 or $0.09 of EPS that you just haven't called out in your press release real clearly.
Darren this is Jim Hilger.
Just to clarify the $9 million was a write-off of IT assets in kidney care.
And I misspoke before I said it was amortization.
It's in the G&amp;A line although it's a noncash charge.
We did not non-GAAP that $9 million.
We have puts and takes in every quarter but we did want to use -- to give you that explanation so you could understand the increase in G&amp;A cost per treatment on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
The $7.7 million tax adjustment that was a -- there was a 0 impact on EPS related to that matter.
However the $7.7 million was distortive to the income tax rate and we called it out so that you wouldn't get the wrong idea and extrapolate a lower income tax rate as a result of that adjustment.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Want to go back to HCP for a minute here.
I think earlier in the call you kind of said that you hadn't really given 2014 guidance.
But in a response to my question in the Q1 call I kind of asked you guys how you felt about 2014 opportunities within HCP given the finalization of the rate cut.
I think your response was that it hasn't changed a whole lot because 2013 was coming in better than you thought.
And 2014 the rate cut was going to be more accelerated than you thought although directionally probably where you thought things might go eventually.
And that net you felt about the same as you did when you first entered into the transaction about what 2014 would look like.
It sounds like -- well A I guess since then we've had 2 disappointing quarters around HCP.
But it sounds like now that things have really changed around your view for what HCP will look like next year so it does sound like something has really changed.
I mean how do we think about the A I guess the performance this quarter and what kind of makes you feel more comfortable at the low end of the range? Is there a specific geography is it still New Mexico or is there something else going on there? And then B how do we think about your ability to address rate cuts within the business? Because I think that on our side at least the view was that this was a little bit better business than most provider businesses because you had that cushion of benefit design changes above you you had the ability for you to improve your own operations the ability to impact bonuses you ultimately gave the doctors as many levers that could be pulled.
But it sounds to me like you actually don't really influence the benefit design changes above you and that you're still beholden to someone else deciding what your rates will be and just want to understand that.
Because I thought there was more flexibility there.
But it sounds like you're saying that you really don't influence the actual rates that you will get.
It's more of a function of what the government does at the very top.
Okay.
Kevin that -- could you go ahead and then just take a stab at saying one of the questions again and so we don't ramble? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Yes sure.
So I guess the first question is what happened in Q3 versus your reduced Q guidance last time? Is there a certain geography that was impacted? Because this is the second straight quarter where things -- where you seem to be talking down HCP.
So I just want to understand incrementally where the -- this shortfall is coming from.
Well I don't know that -- let me take a stab.
I don't know that anything has changed with respect to our view on HCP other than the material new data on benefit designs and the fact that they didn't change much.
Research Division</strong> Well [indiscernible] there with Q3 because Q3 you went from -- you're now at the low end of the range versus a range before? Okay correct.
And so the question is why now do we think we'll be -- why are we at the low end of the range and...
Research Division</strong> Below.
Yes yes why are you now at the low end of the range or below for HCP versus the other range last quarter? Oh okay.
All right.
Well it's getting down to pretty small numbers that given the old guidance and the size of that range and sort of moving from just saying the range to saying the low end you start to talk about movements of $10 million plus or minus or so.
And in HealthCare Partners that kind of volatility in medical utilization and claims costs and other things can easily create that kind of swing.
So I don't think there's a specific answer to your question as to one thing which led us to say instead of just saying oh it's the same range saying that we're going to be at the lower end probably or even fall below is more sort of a composite result not a single thing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So as far as you're concerned because $10 million -- I mean you would think that ratably that would be 10% to the number for Q4.
There's no specific geography or anything that stands out as being dramatically different than what your guidance was last quarter.
Correct correct.
It may be more 5 6 7 things that just have us tweaking the numbers down a bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as far as just how to think about rate pressure in general.
It sounds very much to me like you guys did not really have or do not really have much influence with managed care companies and how they set the benefit design.
It was my impression maybe it was mistaken that you guys had a partnership with the health plans and how you structured benefits.
But it sounds like you really didn't know what the benefits looked like until after July and after they had already been set and we're ready to be posted.
So I mean when you think about rate pressures in that business although it's always possible that a managed care company could cut benefits above the line and be a buffer for you it sounds like that's not something that you should ever -- or we should assume will happen.
So how do you think about your ability to offset those cuts? Is it basically the same way that you have the ability to offset cuts and [indiscernible]? Is it just you executing better? Because I thought there was an extra buffer in there but it sounds like there really isn't.
Am I reading that wrong? Kevin Bob Margolis here.
You're reading it generally correct.
As you know -- because you cover I know the managed care companies as well.
They file their benefits in a confidential manner in the summer and they don't become public until October.
And during that time they are extremely sensitive to the fact that they're in a competitive environment with other health plans.
So they do not share the specifics.
They did talk and do talk about the fact that they had allowance from CMS to reduce by some $30 or so their benefits if they chose.
So it was a presumption in our conversations with them not denied that they had that latitude and would perhaps do that.
Clearly in their view I think it's clear they made the decision that they would like to maintain their competitive advantage with other plans and their market share perhaps over their margins.
And because as you know they're sharing of course and their portion of that benefit not being adjusted as well.
So we do have great relationships that have these strategic conversations but at the end of the day you're correct.
The plans make their own decisions.
Research Division</strong> And so when we think about that from your context you're relying on their desire to maintain their own margins as a buffer for your own margins and that may not be the case from one year to the next? Or is it possible that they are in fact maintaining their margins.
They're just shifting more of it on to you? Recognize again that we're only one portion of their network and their relationships with all their network I'm quite sure vary.
So they -- they're more or less of the risk of those benefit changes based on individual relationships that they may have with the rest of their network.
So I think you'd have to ask the plans directly about their decision process on maintaining margin versus growth.
Research Division</strong> But I guess just directionally if you see them not change margin you're pretty comfortable -- or not change I'm sorry benefits in a rate cut scenario you're pretty comfortable that they are accepting lower margins themselves.
It's not that they're able to pass it entirely on to you guys.
Correct.
They do have some portion responsibility for those revenue costs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to -- -- I guess for my last question here.
On HCP the commentary around the opportunity to buy things and overlay your cost structure on to things it -- obviously is a huge opportunity it makes sense that you wouldn't be able to do it all at once.
I mean could you give us a sense of how long it takes to kind of feel like you're getting an acquisition up and running the way that you would want it to so that we can kind of more appropriately think about margin ramp-up? And then just also understand if there's a certain margin profile that you're looking at or you're looking to buy things that are well-run and humming already? Or are you perfectly fine buying something that's got a lower margin profile with the expectation that over time you're going to get it there? Well first I think we'll provide a much better answer at Capital Markets than we will in a snippet right now.
But on the specific second question you asked we're absolutely open to buying things with low margins or negative margins or partnering with people who have low margins or negative margins.
Often those can be the best return on capital deals if we turn them around.
At the same time we're not all averse to paying a normal multiple on a recurring stream of earnings but we have 0 preference between those 2 situations.
It's all about risk-adjusted long-term return on capital.
Research Division</strong> And then -- but then I guess maybe just to follow up on that how do you think then about the rate cuts for 2015 that are kind of standing out there in your context of doing deals? Does it make sense to be doing a transaction in the next 4 months before you see the preliminary rate for 2015 if you're thinking about HCP being down significantly next year? How do you think about what an appropriate risk-adjusted return is on something over the next 4 months? Well that is a tough one to answer.
I mean certainly we think a lot about what we believe the range is for long-term MA reimbursement as well as of course commercial rates and Medicaid.
And as always when you're thinking of buying something you've got to put on your 5- 6- 7- 10-year hat and you pay disproportionate attention to what's going to happen soon.
And that in particular can have a lot of influence on some terms you might impose or the price that you might offer.
But the real rubber meets the road over the subsequent 7 to 10 years.
So we're certainly worried about the government's physical situation what that implies for Medicare rates.
At the same time because we deliver fundamentally superior product superior value to society with what we do underneath the MA plans that our premise -- our strategic premise is that there's going to be a robust MA market for a long time independent of what happens in any given 12-month period.
Am I missing the mark? Research Division</strong> No I think that that makes sense.
It's about as good as you can do when you're dealing with the government.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Borsch from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask you just again on HCP maybe you can remind us what the concentration is by payer if not identifying the payers just give us an approximate breakdown in terms of how many represent how much revenue or earnings however you want to break it down.
And then I guess a related question is is what you're seeing or expected to see relatively consistent across those payers? Or are you seeing some -- are you expecting to see some divergence with significantly greater pressure from some payers than others? I'll answer the second.
At this point well a couple of plans have diverged from the norm.
That's about it at this point in terms of decisions that have been made.
The aggregate reality is dominantly most payers doing more or less the same thing.
On the other issue of how concentrated or fragmented are our plan clients I don't think we've shared that.
I'm looking across the table.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And I assume you mean with respect to a couple that stand out those are the ones that adjusted benefits the least and therefore where you'd expect to see the most pressure? No.
Actually most did very little adjusting benefits.
One outlier actually increased benefits so that was the -- it was a small player that was the most striking divergent episode.
Research Division</strong> And then there was another outlier? Well I've just -- I haven't looked at the entire distribution curve so I just don't want to [indiscernible] there was only one.
But I can tell you whether there was one outlier or 2 or 3 out of all the different plans we deal with that the dominant reality was as we've characterized it.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just a last question on a different topic which is on the commercial pricing front not on the exchanges but as you referred to a large provider and a large payer and the arrangement that may have developed there on commercial pricing.
Is there anything you can speculate that's changed in the industry dynamics between providers and payers that might explain why this is happening now particularly in light of the fact that it's not as if there is more room going into 2014 to give a big pricing concession I don't know what size it was but there's less room.
We agree.
Your next question comes from Gary Taylor from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions left.
First is on the Arizona IPA acquisition.
My understanding that's not a global capitated network.
It's really capitated for the physician component.
I was wondering if you could ballpark run rate revenues in that business? We don't do the -- we won't break out the revenues.
But as to the former question...
Gary Bob here.
You're right that that was the current relationship that existed.
We are in discussions with our health plan partners across Arizona.
SCAN was a global risk relationship and we hope to move the others to our preferred global relationship over time.
We do not have a specific date that that will occur by.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly I was wondering if you -- for the third quarter if you could give us HCP's EBITDA contribution.
I think we've had that quarterly in the filings disclosed for a number of trailing quarters.
All right.
I'll -- let me just have the team determine if that is something that we've provided as a matter of course.
And if we can go on to the next one and come back to it that would be much appreciated Gary.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I have $187 million as the 3Q '12 EBITDA figure if that's -- which I think we've plucked from a filing.
So if there's a number that's comparable to that but I'll let you look for that.
People are searching furiously so we'll get back to you.
Your next question comes from the line of William Alex [ph] from Peninsula Equity.
To turn the mood of the call maybe a little more positive obviously very robust cash flow generation going on $1 billion of cash on the balance sheet it looks like maybe $80 million to $100 million accruing a month.
Capital allocation what if any priorities are there for the management team going forward? Also the stock trading down since this past summer is the company continuing evaluating the merits of a share repurchase? Sure appreciate the question.
And we've pretty much given the same answer now for 14 years which is that we look at that capital allocation question very regularly and intensely and at different times have been quite aggressive in buying back stock.
Other times we've opted to pay down debt.
Other times we've held cash because we thought we might have a shot at doing a significant acquisition.
And so we've made highly customized decisions across the spectrum of capital allocation alternatives depending entirely on our assessment of our internal and external situation within our markets and then integrating that with our view of the capital markets.
So right now we are hoping that we'll reach a settlement with the government which will then consume a significant subset of that cash.
And beyond that we are staring very much at how to think about what to do with our excess cash in '14 and '15.
We hope that we get to buy some really good stuff.
But if that doesn't happen then we'll be staring a lot at the 2 other alternatives.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Morgan from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to confirm on that most recent Arizona acquisition the composition of the physician base there was that more primary care or more specialist-focused? That was a combination.
Not all of those 700 are primaries but a good majority of them are.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess totally unrelated switching back over to the dialysis side of the business.
Any additional mitigation steps that you have identified going into this final re-basing? And I'll hop off.
No nothing specific that we can offer up Frank.
Your next question comes from Gary Lieberman from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess on the re-basing is there any additional insight that you guys can provide us or any insight into any discussions with the CMS? I guess the way this is that they said it would be out by about Thanksgiving.
Is that your understanding or do you think it might be out sooner than that? That's all we've heard is late November.
Your next question comes Lisa Clive from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the private insurance rates on the dialysis side of your business.
On your comments around the discussions you've been having with a large payer does this relate to a structural change in the methods of payment here? I'm specifically thinking about the private plans that have moved to a similar bundled pricing structure that Medicare did in 2011 and whether that has potentially an impact on the rate dynamics moving forward.
And then just a follow-up question on that is whether you have any further work to do in general in bundling private patients or whether you're satisfied with the proportion of your private patients that are bundled? On the second question most of our stuff on a dollar value basis is bundled on the commercial side.
And we will probably continue to increase that a little bit over time but not dramatically.
And could you go back and do the first question again please? LLC.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that one payer has said they've gotten better pricing for larger volumes.
Was that the only thing that happened or was there also a structural change where that payer was moving over to bundling? That was not a structural change.
Well I don't -- I can't -- I can only comment on our arrangement with that payer.
I have no idea with the other provider whether that was...
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
But the pressure you're getting from them is -- has nothing to do with any sort of change in the way that you're currently getting paid by them? Correct not for us.
We have no further questions on line.
This is Jim Hilger.
I just want to come back to you Gary Taylor on your question about our EBITDA.
Our Q3 EBITDA was $137.2 million and that compares to Q2 2013 of $120 million.
Hopefully that answers your question.
Okay.
Well thank you...
Excuse me that was HCP EBITDA.
Okay.
Thanks everyone very much.
We look forward to seeing you at our Capital Markets in a month's time and having a much more in-depth discussion to some of these issues.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good evening.
My name is Chris and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the DaVita HealthCare Partners Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Jim Gustafson you may begin your conference.
Thank you Chris and welcome everyone to our fourth quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations; and with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Bob Margolis CEO of HealthCare Partners; Craig Samitt President of HealthCare Partners; Garry Menzel our CFO; Jim Hilger our Chief Accounting Officer; LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and annual report on Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Okay.
Thank you Jim.
We had solid clinical and operating performance in the fourth quarter.
I'll cover 4 topics: clinical performance operating performance an update on our government settlement and our outlook.
First clinical outcomes which we always present first because that is what comes first.
We are first and foremost a caregiving company.
On the DaVita Kidney Care side we serve approximately 163 000 dialysis patients in America about 1 out of every 3.
On the adequacy front 98% of our hemo patients had a Kt/V greater than 1.2.
On vascular access front 72% of our patients have fistulas; and 2013 was our best year ever in catheter rates with about 13% of our patients only using catheters.
With respect to clinical metrics for HealthCare Partners MA plans are benchmarked against national clinical outcome measures from the Healthcare Effectiveness Data Information Set commonly called HEDIS.
In the last 2 quarters we discussed our 2012 performance in California and Florida.
This quarter we'll compare our results in Nevada our third legacy market to that national data from Medicare HMO patients.
Our Nevada MA patients once again scored near the top across a wide variety of metrics including being above the 75th percentile with respect to the percentage of patients screened for colorectal cancer and the percentage of diabetics with LDL less than 100 and being right underneath the 75th percentile at 74% in terms of female patients screened for breast cancer during the measurement period.
So you can see for these clinical outcomes across both Kidney Care and HealthCare Partners our outcomes compare very favorably to national averages and this quality care results not only in healthier patients but higher patient satisfaction and substantial taxpayer savings.
Next I'll move on to operating performance.
Of course we report on the 2 major components of the enterprise: Kidney Care on the one hand HealthCare Partners on the other.
Kidney Care 2013 adjusted OI $1.513 billion; and HealthCare Partners 2013 OI $385 million.
Both of those in line with our most recent guidance for 2013.
Dialysis G&amp;A in the fourth quarter included $8.5 million in dialysis center level impairments.
This was required by Medicare rebasing which requires us to impair certain assets that were no longer -- no longer had any hopes for being profitable.
In addition to this impairment it looks like we will be closing some centers.
As most of you know we carry quite a few money-losing centers but there does have to be some limit; and with the breadth and depth of the Medicare cuts both incurred and contemplated we simply have no choice in markets where there aren't enough private patients to subsidize the federal government with respect to the Medicare patients.
Next on to our settlement with the government.
As most of you saw today in our press release we have agreed to a framework for a global resolution with the government.
We are pleased to have this framework in place.
And the final settlement remains subject to negotiating specific terms but we do anticipate it will be finalized in the coming months as they do.
The settlement amount is the same as we have talked about in the past.
In addition we will unwind a limited number of joint ventures and face some other business restrictions.
Gary will describe those in more detail in his section.
But we repeat we are pleased to have this framework in place and think you should be as well.
Finally our outlook.
We are updating our 2014 operating income guidance.
We now expect Kidney Care OI to be between $1.475 billion and $1.550 billion.
This is an increase of $50 million at the bottom end and $10 million at the top end.
The primary driver of this change is the slower rollout of exchanges and so that will create less rate headwind for us we think.
Over the long term we still see more downside than upside in the exchanges.
On the HCP front guidance remains unchanged at $250 million to $310 million but we are now more likely to be at the lower end of that guidance range than we are to be in the middle or higher end.
The primary driver of that new reality is the New Mexico merger of the Lovelace-Blue Cross Blue Shield combination that that approval by the government has been delayed and that has a negative effect on our economics.
Our outlook is unchanged in the 3 HCP legacy geographies.
And in general the guidance excludes the potential impact of entering new geographies which depending on the type and structure of new marketing entries could either be a positive contributor or a negative contributor to OI depending on the nature of the beast.
As always our guidance captures a majority of the probabilistic outcomes but not all and the actual outcome could be higher or lower.
An additional thought on HCP is that we have had some positive signs in our open enrollment.
We're looking at mid- to high-single-digit growth in our major geographies which is good news directionally although of course we need to prove that over the next 1 or 2 or 3 years that we can improve the care of those patients such that we capture not only the clinical benefits for our patients but the economic benefits for our shareholders.
I'd like to now turn the mic over to Dr.
Bob Margolis.
Thank you Kent.
Good afternoon.
I've had just the great honor and privilege to lead HCP for almost 40 years.
But as has been previously announced I'll be stepping down as of March 1 and my role will be handed over to Dr.
Craig Samitt.
Craig's been learning listening hard orienting leading the HCP teammates in all of our markets for close to 6 months now and we are now ready to proceed with this planned transition as I say on March 1.
Craig has an enormous background in both M.D.
training and business training a great commitment to our clinical leadership culture necessary to move HCP to even greater heights.
And I personally look forward to supporting him in my new role as a strategic adviser to the company as I remain actively involved especially in growth initiatives as well as remaining Co-Chairman of the board of DaVita HealthCare Partners.
I'll now turn it over to Garry Menzel our CFO for more detail on the numbers.
Thank you Bob.
First some additional comments on our Kidney Care operating metrics.
Non-acquired growth in the quarter was 5.2% when normalized for days of the week.
Kidney Care adjusted operating income was $386 million which was flat sequentially to the fourth quarter as U.S.
dialysis revenue per treatment dialysis patient care costs and G&amp;A were all in line with the prior quarter.
During the quarter we experienced $11 million in international losses slightly higher than our expectations.
As previously communicated we expect international losses in 2014 to be around $25 million excluding any ramp-up costs for new government tenders.
Next we know some of the questions you no doubt have on the government settlement so we will now ask and answer them proactively.
Question: What does it mean to unwind a joint venture? Answer: It means that we will have to buy out or sell to our joint venture partner at fair market value.
In most cases we would anticipate being the purchaser.
Question: How many joint ventures have we agreed to unwind? Answer: Most likely 11 transactions containing 28 centers.
Nothing is remarkably different about the size or operations of these centers.
Question: Were there any allegations relating to quality of patient care? Answer: No.
Question: Is our business model reliant on joint ventures? Answer: No.
More than 70% of our centers are wholly owned.
Question: Will we still be able to do joint ventures that are not partial divestitures? Answer: Yes.
And we look forward to working collaboratively with the government to ensure we are doing joint ventures in a way in which the government is comfortable.
Next HealthCare Partners.
HCP operating income was also flat sequentially in the fourth quarter at $98 million.
For the overall enterprise our debt expense was $108 million in the fourth quarter.
The effective tax rate was 39% in the quarter although we expect this to be in the range of 40% to 41% for 2014.
I would also like to provide a few reminders as you model the normal seasonality for the first quarter of 2014 in our business.
In Kidney Care the first quarter of 2014 contains 3 fewer treatment days than this past quarter so you should expect lower revenues and higher fixed cost per treatment.
Also our payroll tax cuts reset at the beginning of the year which leads to higher cost of approximately $1 to $1.50 per treatment.
At HCP the severity of a flu season can have a material impact on medical costs.
Finally turning to cash flow.
Operating cash flow in the quarter was solid at $354 million and operating cash flow for the year was particularly strong at $1.77 billion.
The strong cash flow in 2013 was due in part to favorable working capital which borrowed from 2014.
We have initiated operating cash flow guidance for 2014.
This coming year we expect operating cash flow to be between $1.45 billion and $1.55 billion excluding any payments associated with the government settlement.
With that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Borsch from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Bo Brandt on for Matt.
Just had a question on HCP.
And I was wondering how you are positioning yourself with payors to handle the potential rate update in 1.5 weeks? This is Craig Samitt.
Afternoon everyone.
We are certainly waiting for feedback from the government regarding the impact of rates in 2015.
As we discussed in December we've been renegotiating contract terms that provide us greater protections and inputs in plan design.
We've renegotiated a contract with a large payor partner in one of our legacy markets that provides us new protections in 3 dimensions: first in the event that benefits are increased revenue to HCP will be increased by an independently determined value of the enhanced benefit.
Second in the event that benefits are decreased we and the payor will seek to mutually agree on any reductions of revenue to HCP.
And third in the event that there is a material change in CMS funding or funding structure HCP will have a 90-day notice period to drive a renegotiation of the revenue terms with the payor prior to arbitration.
The third scenario is more in line with the circumstance that we faced in 2014 in terms of rates and benefit preservation.
And so this is where we find our efforts in renegotiating contract terms with payors going into 2015.
But Matthew let me hasten to add that is an example of the type of work we will do going forward.
We still have a number of legacy contracts that do not have those provisions and exactly what we do and what the payors do if and when there are additional rate cuts is unclear and will be determined out in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just looking at sort of the 2014 HCP guidance and you mentioned how it will tend to be towards the lower end is that based off of uncertainty around these -- the 2014 preliminary rates? Or have you sort of seen sort of have a view into 2014 as to what's driving that? No.
Brian the change in our perspective on '14 is almost entirely driven by the fact that the FTC has been slow on approving merger to plans in that market and some of our new contractual provisions are not triggered until that deal is consummated.
That's why there's the adjustment in our thoughts on '14.
Your next question comes from the line of Darren Lehrich from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a few things here.
First just given that you received the restricted Knox-Keene license status from California should we expect to see some of your California business get recorded as full risk on the P&amp;L this year? Short answer is yes.
But moving things over -- moving the contracts over takes time and so we can't give you a specific schedule.
But over time some of that will happen.
Is that right Jim? That's right.
And Darren the net is that there won't be a bottom line impact.
It is simply a revenue impact of moving from a net to gross booking for some of that revenue.
Research Division</strong> Okay but didn't you share in the risk with other parties such that when you take full risk the economics might over time be different? Just want to clarify that Jim.
No.
There's no change.
We've always managed comprehensive populations in a comprehensive way.
All that's changing here is how it gets accounted for.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay that's helpful.
And then wanted to also just ask about the duals opportunity and you've discussed it a lot.
We're starting to see a little bit more in terms of the development around plan announcements.
Do you still see your plan relationships and market share as positioning you well in California around the duals? And anything to add just based on some of this recent activity? It's a moving target.
As you probably know if you've been following the releases LA County which is the biggest opportunity as far as numbers in dual has now announced the additions of 3 new plans.
We have excellent relationships with those 2 not with CareMore.
The revenue associated with the duals has not been formalized and so everybody continues to look at it as an opportunity if the revenue matches the risk.
But at this point it's hard to predict that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just based on what you're hearing about plan pricing do you think it'll be good enough to manage the population effectively? We hope so.
And we are certainly in active discussions with all of the relevant health plans.
You may have also noted that in Orange County they've delayed the rollout of the duals so this will be an LA County-specific issue with those several plans that were announced.
Your next question comes from the line of Justin Lake from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I just want to follow up on the Medicare Advantage commentary.
I appreciate all the detail.
What -- if you kind of think of about a target for -- if the bids go in for 2015 in June Craig what's your target there in terms of these new contractual arrangements? What percentage of members would be on those arrangements if -- in a reasonable view? Well in terms of the renegotiation of the contracts that KT and I have referenced...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Right now the renegotiated contract that I referenced represents a minor subset of our overall MA population.
And we will grow from there over the course of the coming years as we renegotiate the contracts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there a number that in terms of -- is 20% of members reasonable to think of on these types of contracts going into 2015 or it's just too early? I think this is a little bit like as we move to bundling in the Kidney Care side Justin where -- I don't think it's in your best interest for us to provide quarterly updates on what percent of the contacted book falls into what categories.
So suffice it to say we're working the issue as we pledged to you we would.
And I think you'll just have to accept the fact it's incorporated into our guidance beyond that at least for now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the economic side clearly these are going to be a mitigator to some of the headwind.
Any way to think about how much so relative to the headwind you're facing in 2014 when you didn't have these? Say the question again please Justin? Research Division</strong> Sure.
So if I do some back-of-the-envelope math it looks like you've got a few 100-basis-point headwind in Medicare Advantage margins in HealthCare Partners this year given the rate environment.
So if we just kind of look out to 2015 and say "Okay that rate environment is going to be similar " how much would these -- would the margins -- how much better would the margins look under these types of contracts? Just trying to understand in terms of how much you think the offset would be.
Do you think margins will be flat in these types of contracts and you would get to a reasonable outcome or down less but still down? The -- it's a fair question and we are not prepared to answer that right now.
So let us just play with that Justin and see if that's something we want to be talking about so publicly next quarter.
And it won't be in the end of course an analytically precise number because of some of the specific variables in some of the contracts.
But I hear what you're saying that with -- if we had more of what we have now with respect to that contract how much would that mitigate.
I hear the question and right now you know it's in a minority of our contracts and so you can take that as a directional answer.
And beyond that let's wait until next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a couple of quickies.
One the -- on the exchanges you talked about that being less of a headwind because there's less membership there totally understandable.
But have you seen any evidence of the membership that is on the exchanges yet having an impact on rates or where the choice of dialysis center for these patients and these exchange products? As to rates we know that we only agreed to our normal commercial rates with respect to any exchanges.
At least I don't know of any exceptions to that and so if there are any it would be very minor but it could be literally 0.
We know of other people who make the same statements.
We don't know where some of these patients are going to be taken care of.
Some of these narrow networks do not have quality dialysis providers in them.
And we have not noticed any material outflow of patients from our centers.
But it's so early in the year and we don't get data from every center right away.
And so I think we have to wait a couple more months before we can comment more analytically on your question.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Fischbeck from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you just had a sense of where your physician competitors are operating from a margin perspective either when you do due diligence on a potential acquisition or just industry kind of information how you think about HCP's margins and how they stack up versus the peers? Well I think we have limited insight into a lot of the other groups out there.
So it'd be a pretty speculative answer and I think therefore probably not that valuable to you.
I don't know Bob can you offer anything more definitive than that? I think that's a complete answer.
We do a lot of M&amp;A due diligence and many groups are struggling especially with the MA cut.
And it's an opportunity for us when it comes to consolidation and growth.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean -- and that kind of gets to the point of my question.
I guess like when we normally evaluate a health care provider we kind of say "Well what are the industry margins?" Where can Medicare rates go from a floor perspective because they can't go to a point where they push a large sum of the providers into real crisis mode? And so I was just trying to get a sense of whether the peer margins -- because the way I understand how you thought about 2014 originally the thought was MCOs won't be able to -- will cut benefits rather than pass the cuts on to you.
And then as the year went on you realized that they were not cutting benefits and that since your peers were taking the rate cut passed through to them you'd kind of had to follow suit and I was just wondering whether we're getting to a point in 2015 where the peer margins are getting to a point where they really can't afford to take another rate cut the size that they took this year and that maybe your margins were better than the peers and that was going to be a sustainable point.
I don't know if you have any sense of that.
It sounds like to some degree you see that happening now at least some of your competitor that you're evaluating it for as deals go are reaching that point.
I just wasn't sure if you had a sense of where we are in that cycle.
Clearly last year we thought that the health plans would trade some growth for margin.
They didn't.
There's a lot of belief that they may this year but I don't think we're ready to speculate based on our experience last year.
But there's no question that the pressure on physician groups with the revenue cuts is in some cases going to put them in a position where they have to do something to survive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the protection as you mentioned in that one contract that's very helpful.
Are these protections that you found to be somewhat standard from other practices and you're playing catch-up to that? Or are you kind of leading the way in trying to get these things to become more standard with industry practice? One thing you can say about us is we learn.
And so we are leading the way in what we believe is an unusual rate environment.
Recognized that the last couple of years of parity and rough rescaling is a new environment compared to the many years ahead of before that.
So this kind of issue was not raised frequently in contract discussions.
And I'd say we are smarter now than we were a year ago and we're making good progress.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me.
Just going back to the other question within Knox-Keene license if that doesn't really help your profitability overall what was the strategic rationale for getting a license? I think from a -- just working with the government point of view that enough government folks preferred us to take that path.
And in general we like to work as collaboratively as possible with all government agencies.
And so that was the primary motivator.
Research Division</strong> But it's not like a step towards integrated care or ACOs or anything else like that.
It was just kind of to continue what you've always been doing? I think on a secondary basis it does in some cases create some more flexibility for doing different types of business.
Although in all of those cases we could have entered into shared savings relationships of the same type that we had in Southern California before we did the Knox-Keene.
And so it was not essential but it will make some of those other things easier.
Are those the words that would use too Bob? Yes.
I think that's -- that will give us greater flexibility.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ellich from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions first on HCP.
Kent I was wondering if you could give us an update on your outlook for acquisitions.
I guess dependent upon what the -- how the rates look when they come out for 2015 do you think that's going to accelerate the pace of deals that you'll get done? Yes.
It's a fair question Kevin.
But you know as well as we do it is so hard to predict what deals are going to come out and with what pricing expectations what your competitors are going to do.
So it is logical to think that there might be some increase in M&amp;A activity because of the squeeze going on economically.
But boy there's so many variables that I would be really hesitant to throw anything into a model.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then does the settlement that -- the $389 million that you guys have reserved does that change how much you're willing to spend on deals in the next 1 to 2 years? Or I guess how does that play into the equation? The short answer is no.
The types of joint ventures that are the focus of the settlement with the government are not a material part of our past nor our future and not a big part of the industry overall.
And so it really has no impact on our or anybody else's acquisition thinking would be my guess.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
You said that you'll unwind 11 JVs.
How many will you have remaining after you unwind those? I don't think we've ever disclosed that publicly.
But suffice it to say it's a small percentage.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then last question on the dialysis side.
Just wondering if looking at your cost structure from supplies and other expenses is there anything in the next 1 to 2 years that you can call out or think -- help us out with that that could help you reduce that? I would just say on both sides of the house when reimbursement gets cut you got to look for savings and the notion of finding 0 just doesn't feel like a high-performing organization.
And so while we on both sides of the house feel quite good about our economic prudence in the past we will be looking at everything again with the fresh perspective that's forced by reimbursement cuts.
But there's nothing -- there's no big straightforward lever to pull that we've been just sitting around not pulling before.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Lieberman from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could follow up on that last comment Kent about the cost containment.
How do you feel HCP's talked about some of what you'll be doing in face of the rate cuts to try cut costs and how would you characterize where you are in that process? I think the answer would be disappointing.
We don't have anything dramatic to say.
We haven't had any stunning insights and the numbers that we have come up with are incorporated into our guidance.
And beyond that nothing noteworthy enough to mention.
Is that -- am I answering the question or did I blow it? LLC Research Division</strong> No I think that's an answer.
Maybe another question.
You mentioned closing of some dialysis centers.
Could you give us any kind of data either number of centers or amount of revenue or EBITDA impact? We haven't decided yet.
And it's a as you might guess and as many of you know for us an incredibly painful decision.
There's a reason we carry a lot of money-losing centers not counting de novo centers which of course you expect to lose money for a while.
And that is that we were a successful enterprise.
We love taking care of our patients.
And the notion of closing centers where we're taking care of people is just not what we're about.
At the same time there have to be limits and if the government is going to cut rates as they have and as they're contemplating doing nothing is just not appropriate although anything we would do would always be in careful collaboration with other people in the local market in order to maintain continuity of care.
So we can't give a number right now because we haven't decided and we're agonizing as we look.
But we felt it was important to let you know that the number wasn't going to be 0.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would it be reasonable to assume that there would not be much EBITDA impact if any? Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe my final question in terms of unwinding some of the joint ventures.
Does that potentially have any impact on the medical directors at those centers or how do you manage that? Could you ask that question again please? LLC Research Division</strong> As you unwind some of the joint ventures could that potentially impact any of the medical directors that you have at those centers? And so could it be any kind of operational issue for you? Yes I appreciate it.
The short answer yes it could.
But it's unlikely that most of the relevant transactions were with groups with whom we have larger and multifaceted relationships and therefore not expected to change.
And even in the couple of cases where it might be a smaller relationship in most of those instances it shouldn't make a difference either.
As someone mentioned earlier over 70% of our centers already are wholly owned.
And so it's not that us owning 100% or something is somehow a destabilizing element.
For the most part.
Of course there could be an exception or 2 but not the rule.
Your next question comes from the line of Frank Morgan from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the subject of those JVs could you describe to us exactly what is the characteristic of the JVs that you're having to unwind? What is it the government doesn't like versus the other JVs you have where there's no problem? Yes.
And let me first go backwards a moment because someone asked a few moments ago how many JVs we have.
And that's not something we've disclosed before.
But we have disclosed the percent of our revenue that comes from JVs and that's right in the ballpark of 21%.
So from that you can pretty well infer how many there are out there and be in the right strategic ballpark.
The type of JVs that we're focused on are JVs where we did a partial divestiture which is to say that we owned 100% and then sold a percentage of that -- a minority percentage of that 100% to local nephrologists.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Versus your other ones you're just -- these are new partnerships and so it's just that simple? It's pretty much that simple.
And because we are in the process of finalizing all aspects of the agreement I just don't think it's a good idea to start parsing things any further.
So I think we'll leave it at that for today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
In terms of the kidney side of the business the operating income guidance going up here would you characterize that as more top line driven or is this more something you got on the expense side? It's more top line driven because of the lower enrollment in the exchanges.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So more a function of pricing.
And then in terms of external growth obviously you did a few acquisitions this year in the U.S.
and internationally as well as some de novos.
What's -- what are you embedding in your guidance for 2014 on the subject of either de novos or acquisitions? I don't think we've broken that out.
Suffice it to say we anticipate doing more acquisitions.
Whether it will be a little more a little less than the prior year impossible to predict.
Could there be a significant dropoff in acquisitions? Maybe.
Just don't know too early in the year.
Could there be a significant increase in acquisitions on the Kidney Care side? That's unlikely.
There's nothing out there that would provoke that.
On the de novo front we once again expect to have a robust year of building de novos in areas where there's enough private patients to subsidize the federal government but we don't go beyond that and give a specific number.
It's always a little hard to nail down.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then the last one and I'll hop.
The operating income being up nicely your cash flow from ops down you highlighted the one item on just timing of working capital.
Is there anything else that would cause that disparity? Well the change in working capital was one of the major drivers.
Was anything else noteworthy that we should mention Jim or Jim? Yes.
This is Jim Hilger.
We've had some tax preference items in 2013 that won't be reported -- or repeated in '14 accelerated depreciation being the most notable one.
Your next question comes from the line of Margaret Kaczor from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> First just to get back to exchanges.
How many exchanges have you guys decided to participate in versus not participate? And kind of what drove that decision? Was it pricing or was it something else? I don't know the number and I don't know that we've tracked.
Because in general any exchange that's willing to pay our normal commercial rates we sign up for; and those that don't we don't.
So it's been a pretty simple decision filter and I don't know that anybody's added them up.
Research Division</strong> Do you know if anyone actually accepted the kind of the lower rate contracts or any of the private guys or kind of the smaller guys? I'm sure that some people have and we have no way of knowing how many.
But given we're all in the same situation where the 10% of our patients that are private subsidize the 90% that are government there are limits to how much of that you can do before you put your entire survival at risk.
So I'm sure the answer is yes and only time will tell how many it was.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you guys talk a little bit more about HCP acquisition targets.
In the past you've kind of talked about kind of a 2- to 3-year time horizon as the result starts to materialize.
Is that still accurate? And then also can you talk about the acquisition candidates that you've done diligence on? How many was that? Why wouldn't things pan out there? Or is it just you guys are overloaded right now in the Q with people interested in acquiring -- in getting acquired? Let me take a quick stab and we'll see then if Craig or Bob want to amend.
With respect to organic growth in patient numbers that's where there's a time lag as we work to familiarize ourselves to the patient's condition and provide coordinated care and as we succeed in doing so bringing down the cost of that care through better health.
So that's one of the references to the 2- and 3-year time frame that you mentioned.
When we buy something if in fact it has a mature Medicare Advantage population that it's been working with then there could be profits immediately and of course we would be paying a multiple for that.
And then as to the pipeline of M&amp;A opportunities it is -- there is one.
It is so impossible to predict with any accuracy which organizations will in fact decide to sell and whether or not we'll be the winning bidder that helping you do a better job of forecasting is unfortunately not something we're able to do.
And we've also mentioned in the past how we had to build a business development capability pretty much from scratch with respect to new markets that we were necessarily going to be a little awkward and slow in the early going and we're making some good progress.
But that certainly has slowed us down.
Have I covered it Margaret? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So I guess the acquisitions that maybe did or did not pan out it doesn't sound like that was big number maybe.
But those that maybe didn't have a higher price premium than you guys were willing to pay did those go to hospitals largely? Or what other players insurers? On the ones we've lost that are of size I can think of a couple maybe 3.
2 went to payors and 1 went to a health system a hospital health system.
So and that I worry that that "n" is so small that could be misleading.
But that is the factual answer to your question of the 3 that I can think of offhand.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Clive from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Three questions.
First on the dialysis business.
Integrated care obviously the rate cut slowed down the progress of the development of the ESCO program and potentially changed the decision around participating.
Can you give us an update on where you stand with Medicare on this? And can you give us any insight into how Medicare is thinking about the size and duration of the program? And then second question if a new ESA enters the market this year is it safe to assume given that you signed a pretty long-term contract with Amgen that that allows for some sort of automatic price step-down? And how should we think about the potential impact on your cost structure from any changes in the ESA competitive landscape? Okay.
On ESCOs we do not know when CMS will come out with the version 2 or version 3 depending on how you're counting.
And we still have high hopes because we know they want to do it and we know that we and other providers can improve quality significantly and dramatically and transparently while at the same time saving literally billions of dollars.
So we're incredibly enthusiastic about it but just don't know when the next version will come out.
The good news is that there's more and more recognition to the fact that this type of integrated care is the answer.
And then on ESAs I have to admit I did not get a refresher on the stipulations in our contract as to what we can disclose and what we cannot.
And so on any kind of auto step-down in price and the other issues you mentioned we just I think are not allowed to disclose.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And a final question given the Medicare rate cut that went through spread out over 4 years are you seeing any increase in activity of small providers who are interested in selling themselves given the headwinds they're facing now? Not anything significant yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Taylor from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions but I guess I wanted to come back to this ESA question.
Because I thought Kent you had publicly pretty firmly said before that there was no automatic sort of price step-down in the long-term contract with Amgen.
If I'd said it before then it was true and is still true.
But I just couldn't remember offhand the terms of the contract and what we had been allowed to disclose or not and we just didn't do a refresher on that one leading into this call and so we had to err on the side of being safe.
But if it was disclosed before it must have been true and if it was true it still is true.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On HCP for the duals in California that we're talking about earlier is there anything explicitly in the 2014 guidance in terms of revenue or operating income contribution in '14? Answer is no.
It's 0.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And which -- there was a quick discussion kind of where the rates are shaking out so forth.
Is that a program where strategically you'd be willing to absorb losses initially to be involved in the rollout of that program? Only if we thought the program was stable enough and long term enough that we could get our shareholders a return on the capital that we were investing.
What is so often the case is that if you take that risk upfront and succeed right at the point that you might be expecting to earn the fruits of your labor the rules change and therefore you're not allowed the return what you invested to get.
So you got to be awfully cautious on that sort of thing and therefore can't answer with a definitive yes or no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question.
At the Investor Day Kent I believe you said if you saw a similar Medicare Advantage cut in 2015 HCP's operating income would be down or you might have said likely would be down again I believe.
Is there enough happening in terms of these renegotiated MA contracts that you talked about a little bit today that you'd want to revise that outlook? Or would you still stick to that? I absolutely stick to what was said at the capital markets that if we get hit with the rate decreases OI will be down.
Your next question comes from the line of Whit Mayo from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just had a couple of quick ones.
And you've referenced 2014 being an investment year for HCP I think on this call and also at the Capital Markets Day.
And I think I heard you referenced business development earlier as an area that you were particularly focused on now.
But is there anything specifically to call out at this point in time in terms of systems or other capabilities that you've identified as a priority going forward? This is Craig again.
Our primary focus for investment thus far in 2014 has been in the business development and integration arena.
So we've added resources with the business development team.
We're leveraging our legacy HealthCare Partners and DaVita expertise in existing and new markets.
And we're laying the groundwork for successful post-acquisition integration.
So that's where a majority of our resources are thus far.
In terms of your question about other systems and processes I would say that we're in the evaluation phase of each of those to determine if additional investment should be made in technologies or processes that would further enhance our capabilities in the future.
Does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes it does.
But I mean can you be maybe a little bit more specific about what those capabilities are? I mean is it actuarial capabilities? I mean I didn't know if you'd be willing to comment a little bit further.
There are no particular capabilities that I would call out at this point.
I think we're looking at broad-based opportunities for improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question just relates to buybacks.
You hit the pause button on that a while ago and it might just be helpful to hear your latest thoughts on what -- where the internal discussion is around rethinking share repurchase at this point.
Yes.
Our thinking on share buybacks and just in general our capital deployment is as robust as ever.
And over the last 14 years as some of you can attest we've been active along the entire spectrum of having a higher leverage ratio having a lower leverage ratio; doing a lot of buybacks doing no buybacks; spending a lot of money on acquisitions spending no money on acquisitions.
And so we look at that full spectrum every single quarter.
And of course with respect to share buybacks we look at what our alternative uses of capital are what our current valuation is what are the risk dynamics as you look out in the near and intermediate term.
And so we play with it all the time.
And right now we don't have anything interesting to say about any conclusions in that realm.
[Operator Instructions] There are no further questions at this time.
All right.
Thanks everyone for your interest in DaVita HealthCare Partners; and we will do our best on your behalf between now and 3 months from now.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kim and I'll be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the DaVita HealthCare Partners First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Mr.
Gustafson you may begin sir.
Well thank you Kim and welcome everyone to our first quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations; and with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Garry Menzel our CFO; Craig Samitt President of our HealthCare Partners Division; Jim Hilger our Chief Accounting Officer; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meanings of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings included in our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-K.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Jim and thank you all for your interest in DaVita HealthCare Partners.
Q1 disappointing financial performance in HealthCare Partners.
Strong financial performance in Kidney Care.
I will discuss this performance as well as we will update our outlook but first as always I will review our clinical outcomes.
We continue to present our clinical outcomes first because that is what comes first.
We are first and foremost a caregiving company.
On the Kidney Care side we now serve approximately 165 000 dialysis patients in the United States approximately 35%; and in this area CMS recently released the quality incentive program payment results for 2014 payments.
I remind everyone that the way they structure the quality incentive program is with penalties only there is only downside so that's why we will use the penalty word.
They had established four clinical measures central venous catheters AV fistulas URR less than 65 and hemoglobin less than 12.
DaVita ranked number one in the industry in all four clinical measures and if you look at the percent penalties in aggregate only 1.6 of DaVita clinics had any penalty compared to 6% of clinics for the rest of the industry.
This performance is even more notable especially when you adjust for socio-economic factors given we have more lower income people and people of color in our patient population in the overall nation.
Nonetheless we had a 59% lower rate of penalty centers versus the rest of the industry in four counties and we improved our rural clinic performance year-over-year while the rest of the industry saw rural clinic performance decline.
Moving on to HealthCare Partners and clinical metrics in that area one of the areas of focus is reducing hospital readmissions in the second half of 2013 looking at California and Nevada we had a 14% readmission rate that is 24% below the national benchmark of 18.4%.
This alone means our patients avoided more than 700 readmissions over the last six months relative to the rest of the nation.
For these and other clinical outcomes for both Kidney Care and HealthCare Partners we compare very favorably to national averages and our superior clinical results in healthier patients and lower taxpayer costs.
Now moving on to operating performance where I will jump right into discussing HealthCare Partners.
I will discuss both Q1 and the lower guidance for the year.
Q1 was amiss it was a big miss and it was another in the series of misses.
This is embarrassing for us and no doubt worrisome for you.
So legitimate and expected question is what is going on? And the explanation for the quarter and the year are pretty much the same.
So I will discuss most of it in the context of the year.
Number one the primary driver of this shortfall is the fact that in the first phase of the DaVita HealthCare Partner's combination there was a small group of new market new business deals done which have substantially underperformed plan.
The deals fell into a few different categories including acquisitions and assuming some risk contracts.
In aggregate these deals explain about half of the $50 million reduction in the midpoint of our guidance.
Within this category the largest was Albuquerque and on this front the new and incremental bad news is that the health plan acquisition of the Lovelace plan by Blue Cross Blue Shield has not yet been approved by the government which means our globally capitated arrangement does not fully kick in which creates incremental losses each month and also makes the post approval if we assume approval recovery incrementally tougher as well.
Separate factor for the $50 million we misestimated the average MA rate we will receive by 0.8% eight-tenths of a percent on our patients across our geographies which equals $16 million for the year $4 million per quarter.
Next the third and final contributor to the decreased guidance but it does not constitute underperformance is that we have incorporated this expectation of $10 million in startup losses in our new Tandigm joint venture with independents Blue Cross and Philadelphia.
This was explicitly excluded from our guidance last quarter.
So while we corporate it means that we go down in under $10 million in guidance it does not constitute any underperformance versus prior comments.
There is a potential offsetting upside to the scenario we just laid out.
We had a contractual contingency in one of our new markets that could very well lead to recognizing another $30 million to $45 million in revenue this year of which $10 million to $24 million would be attributed to 2014 performance and activities and the balance to 2013.
Now the next question you might well ask how can you possibly expect us to feel comfortable going forward given the magnitude of this change? And the answer is we probably can't make you feel comfortable until we start doing what we said we would do.
But we can tell you that the team that did those deals was displaced many months ago.
The next question might well be when will the new markets get better? Assuming no contingency payout this year for us we would be disappointed very disappointed if they did not do better in 2015.
Next question how much better should we expect them to do? And on that front we are not comfortable estimating at this point.
We fear it would be too unreliable.
The next question is while separate from the economic underperformance of this portfolio of early deals how should we think about what that says for our overall value proposition? And here the good news is that in each of these situations we are adding the clinical value we are supposed to add.
We are getting good physician leadership momentum as we are supposed to and we are advancing the integrated care capability of our partners and affiliate physicians as we are supposed to.
So we are fulfilling the fundamental value proposition in these situations despite the underperforming economics.
Next question might well be as you stare at the numbers and reflect on this explanation would be given the explanation of the shortfall it seems to apply that the three big legacy foundational markets California Nevada and Florida are performing solidly.
And the good news is that answer is an unambiguous yes.
If you were to strip out what we might call legacy ACP from the four deal portfolio they generated approximately $76 million NOI and $116 million in EBITDA after allocating all corporate overhead and a couple of minor non-recurring item adjustments and those numbers as you well realize would put us right on schedule.
Next question what does the series of events do to your confidence my confidence our confidence and the team and the business? And our answer has a few parts.
That the new team the new HealthCare Partners leadership team does deals with traditional DaVita discipline.
Having said that we are doing new things and there will be an experience curve.
And as to the broader question a broader question about the industry our views have not changed and greater care and population health management will grow.
We are good at doing that with physicians in the lead.
Thank you.
I look forward to your questions and now on to LeAnne Zumwalt with an update on policy issues.
Thanks Kent.
I will cover two topics.
One the recent ESRD legislation and two the 2015 Medicare Advantage rate notice.
So first as part of the reason physician SGR legislation Congress partially addressed dialysis reimbursement underfunding.
The key legislative highlights are as in the 2014 ESRD rule the 2015 rate would be essentially flat with 2014.
The good news is that the remaining dialysis cuts were reduced and stretched over three years.
In 2016 and 2017 our bundled payment rate will be updated by market basket minus 1.25% and in 2018 market basket minus 1.
The bundling of additional oral drugs is delayed until 2024.
This is positive outcome as there was substantial risk that CMS significantly underfunded these drugs in 2016 resulting in a de facto rate cut.
Overall this is a good victory for the care community as these changes were scored by the congressional budget office of putting about $2.2 billion back into the dialysis payment system.
Having said that we still on average lose money on our Medicare patients.
The absence of full market basket increases over the next few years the Medicare reimbursement will be further below our cost of providing care.
As a result we will expand only in geographies where there is a healthy subsidy from the private sector.
And geographies without the private support will remain flat or be a contraction of service as we will be forced to close some centers.
Second in April CMS announced the final Medicare Advantage benchmark rates for 2015.
Based on the final roll we expect 2015 rates to be roughly flat for us compared to 2014.
We and others benefit from the rollbacks in the planned risk recalibration in 2015.
Although this presents uncertainty in 2016 and beyond as CMS moves forward with the new model.
Going back the risk recalibration is good for beneficiaries as it will help prevent more dramatic benefit changes in 2015 moving to the new model could create adverse selection or encourage payors to take steps to avoid serving higher cost patients whose health needs are the greatest.
Its encouraging that CMS ought to protect MA benefits and acknowledge the clinical improvements that Medicare Advantage Program is making.
Saying and I quote enrollees are benefiting from greater quality.
Over half of enrollees now in plans with four or more stars a significant increase from 37% of enrollees in such plans in 2013.
Note that in HCP we have over 80% of our patients in plan that are four star rated and above for 2015 well above national averages.
I will now turn the call to Garry.
Thanks LeAnne.
I will walk through a few more details on the numbers.
First some additional comments on our Kidney Care operating metrics.
Kidney Care adjusted operating income of $387 million was up $1 million from the prior quarter.
Non-acquired dialysis treatment growth in the quarter was 5% when normalized for days of the week.
Dialysis segment profitability was down $21 million sequentially due to two negative factors offset by three positive factors.
The two negative factors were; one three fewer treatment days in the quarter; and two an increase in patient care costs of $4.42 per treatment which was due primarily to an increase in EPO unit cost in the quarter and seasonally higher fixed and central level expenses per treatment because of the fewer treatment days in the quarter.
These were largely offset by three positive factors; a 2% increase in treatments per day as a result of strong non-acquired growth.
Two a $0.77 increase in dialysis revenue per treatment; and three a $4.19 decrease in dialysis segment G&amp;A $1.50 of which is due to impairments that were recorded in the fourth quarter and the remainder is a combination of tighter G&amp;A controls and normal quarterly fluctuations.
During the quarter we lost $6 million in our international operations in line with our prior international outlook of $25 million of losses.
However at the time this specifically included any costs for our Saudi Arabia expansion.
As our planned ramp up in Saudi Arabia will create $15 million in additional operating losses in 2014 we now expect to lose $40 million internationally which is included in our increased Kidney Care guidance.
Kent has already discussed in detail the performance of HealthCare Partners so I will next review some key metrics for the overall enterprise.
First our debt expense was $106 million in the first quarter.
Second the effective tax rate was 40.5% in the quarter in line with our expected range of 40% to 41% for full year 2014.
Third we continue to generate strong cash flows as operating cash flow was $419 million in the first quarter.
We still expect operating cash flow to be between $1.45 billion and $1.55 billion in 2014 excluding any payments associated with the potential settlement of physician relationship investigations.
Finally we have updated our 2014 operating income guidance.
Our updated enterprise operating income guidance is $1.725 billion to $1.84 billion.
This includes one reduced HCP guidance of $205 million to $260 million.
Two increased Kidney Care guidance of $1.52 billion to $1.58 billion.
Note that this Kidney Care guidance includes $15 million in 2014 losses to ramp up operations in Saudi Arabia which were not included in the prior guidance.
So combined with the $10 million for Tandigm that means we are including $25 million in expenses previously excluded.
Therefore on apples-to-apples basis the bottom of our consolidated guidance range is up $25 million and the top is up $5 million.
I will now hand the call back to KT.
Thank you Garry.
I'd like to add one editorial comment on the policy front.
The ESRD Kidney Care victory was a big one and once again we led the community to a thoughtful strategy and through formidable campaign.
I'd like to step back for a moment and just think about our two primary businesses Kidney Care and our Medical Group and think about each of them across four parameters as we look out over the next two to three years.
Rate minus expense times volume and then factored by execution risk.
On the Kidney Care side rate there is more downside than upside.
Although we do have somewhat of a reimbursement safety net as the government cannot afford to have many centers closed.
On the expense side things look relatively stable compared to historical norms.
On the volume side things look relatively stable probably a bit slower than the rate we have enjoyed the last few years.
With respect to execution and reliability Kidney Care looks pretty solid.
On to HealthCare Partners our medical group.
As to rate there is more downside than upside.
As to expense there is probably more downside than upside but hopefully we can make those words not true.
As to growth unit growth looks very promising and as to execution reliability the legacy markets look solid the new markets look poor.
Now if you step back to look at the aggregate enterprise for a moment we still think it is a differentially solid platform for the long term.
A strategic position is good.
The market positions are strong.
The talent trajectory is good and our capital structure and our capital efficiency and our cash flows are all solid.
Thank you and let's move on to Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from Justin Lake with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good evening.
First question you mentioned the operating income for HCP and you gave us a number of metrics that basically allowed you back into these recently acquired practices are losing about $80 million for the year in your guidance.
Can you tell us what the plan is for turning this around Kent and how much we can expect to improve for 2015? Justin could you repeat the numbers you threw out please? Sure.
You said the legacy business is running $76 million the reported numbers for HCP are $54 million positive.
[Indiscernible] back into these newly acquired centers running about $20 million a quarter of losses? Or $80 million for the year.
So obviously a very big number in terms of losses there.
I am curious what you are doing to turn that around and how quickly you think you could turn around? Yeah.
First without getting into a lot of complexity you can't just subtract the two and take the difference and then attribute all of that to new markets because there is some other stuff going on like the MA rate predictions etcetera.
There are some issues that cut across the two categories.
Its not quite as clean as that.
And in addition some of those losses were absolutely planned and intentional part of establishing ourselves in new markets.
But separate from fine tuning the actual number what we are going to do to make it better is going to sound pretty vanilla on our call.
We are working on the rate side the expense side and the unit side.
But the biggest single swing factor is having the transaction in New Mexico be approved by the government.
Can you give us a number on the swing factor for that? I don't think that would be in your best interest Justin.
So I think we will have to hold back from that.
Okay.
And then on HCP again.
Last quarter you mentioned you're working with plans to try to get the contract structures that were a little more reasonable in terms of times when there was pressure on reimbursement.
We are just curious if you can give us an update on how those negotiations are going and whether you're feeling more comfortable going into 2015 than you did in 2014? Yeah I would say we made tiny bit of progress in the quarter that's actually not disappointing in the sense that a lot of contracts aren't appropriate to change until they are up for renewal and we don't necessarily want to precipitate an extensive renewal conversation with everyone at one time.
So its not disappointing when I say tiny nor is it impressive its kind of a tweener.
Okay thanks.
I will jump back in the queue.
All right.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Good afternoon.
Kent just wanted to clarify again? You said the three big legacy foundational markets was doing -- was at $76 million of operating income or was it $176 million? It was $76 million its actually right in that $75 million to $76 million range and the other number was $116 million in EBITDA after allocating all corporate overhead.
Got it.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Then can you give us a little bit more color on the potential upside? Is that all dependent upon the deal -- the Blue Cross deal in New Mexico going through or is it something else that you're thinking about that you don't know about yet? We can't disclose exactly where that contractual contingency sits because of some confidentiality agreements.
And so all we can say is that that contractual contingency exists within our new market portfolio and there is a good chance better than 50% chance that it will in fact be triggered.
Okay.
But we don't have any idea on the timing? Since every prediction on the timing has been wrong so far I think we will shy away from venturing into predicting again.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then as for the Medicare Advantage obviously pretty positive news on that front.
But just curious how close are we to achieving parity between the [indiscernible] parity.
Isn't that a year or two out? Most of our counties are in the two year or four year phase down periods.
So 2015 will be the final year for our counties and the four year.
We do not have any membership of significance in the six year based on [ph] counties.
Okay.
So 2015 really is the last year.
Okay great.
Then last one on HCP looking at the decline in operating -- the ratio of operating income to care dollars have gone from 10% a year ago to 5%.
What's your long term objective where could this go and what's going to get us there? Kevin say the question one more time please? The ratio of operating income to care dollars under management this quarter came in at 5%.
A year ago it was 10.4%.
is that just contingent upon improving operations and one out of HCP I guess I am trying to get some idea as to what a normalized ratio should be? I think I am hesitating because there is a bunch of variables that could push it one way or another.
For example we will probably be doing more joint ventures with payers and that may very well b e low margin business because we are splitting the equity and the upside.
But on the other hand it could be incredibly capital efficient and in the long run as we have talked about for 15 years its cash on cash return on capital that ultimately determines a company's long term future.
And so in some cases we may be actively seeking what looks like low margin business but is incredibly attractive in terms of risk adjusted return on capital.
And then looking at it from a different perspective we will also still be doing some of the good old traditional global care business where we and our physician leaders take the entire bolus of it and manage it with ever increasing capability.
So how those different factors are going to net out combine with just in general increase competition in the space is pretty hard to predict.
So I think -- what we will have to get good at doing is just parsing out these different variables.
So you can see where any movements in margin are good news bad news or neutral news.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you Kevin.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Zimmermann with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Thanks and good afternoon.
I was wondering if you could give us some updated thoughts in potential closing of centers.
The CMS rate is going to improve and just curious if you're still planning on going ahead on closing centers? Unfortunately the answer is yes and we are probably going to be closing in the neighborhood of 20 in the near to intermediate term as much as it breaks our heart when the government cuts our reimbursement and holding it flat constitutes a cut given there are certain cost pressures we face that we simply can't get down to zero.
That in some geographies where there are not enough private patients to subsidize the federal government we and other people are going to have to close down some centers.
We will do so with incredible care and respect and oversight in order to take care of our patients and our teammates.
But in the end we are caring a lot of money losing centers and we can't continue to carry that many if in exchange our rates get cut.
Okay.
And then on the patient care cost side I understand that they went up per treatment but you did a pretty good job containing costs from the G&amp;A side.
Can you give us a bit more detail on what those G&amp;A cost controls were and do you see additional opportunities in the next couple of quarters? I do not think we are going to see a continuation of tremendous accomplishment so that's where -- that we pulled off over the last year.
We started thinking about it and planning for it a full two two and a half years ago when we expected the government to be squeezing reimbursement and so it was done with a lot of foresight with a lot of warning and planning and so it is not to disrupt people's lives nor our company's operations and of course most importantly our patient care.
Having said all that there's limits to how much can be done there and so I think you are looking at pretty much the end of that run of progress.
Okay.
And then my last question is on capital deployment.
You're sitting here with $1.1 billion on the balance sheet.
Can you give us an update on thoughts towards acquisitions or potential repurchases? Well we are hoping although it sounds funny to use that word that we will be taking a big chunk of that cash to execute on our settlement with the federal government and that would be about $390 million or so and at our new size we certainly want to keep -- certainly want cash on hand.
Having said that we don't need to have $1 billion in our wallet and we will go through our normal exercise consistent with how we thought the last 15 years in comparing at that time our business opportunities our repurchase opportunities and our debt reduction opportunities.
And so right now we don't have a position on that and of course we welcome any input from all of you which you would prefer.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Brian.
And your next question comes from Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks.
Hi everybody.
So wanted to just may be ask a little bit more about some of the deals that you're referring to and if I guess if you could may be help us think through where you think you miscalculated the most in terms of entering these new markets and the types of structure you had its clear in Albuquerque you miscalculated with regard to the payor landscape and the ability to forge a better relationship there with Lovelace hopefully that changes.
But can you maybe help us think through how else you have miscalculated and how this strategy may be pivoting so that you can avoid that? Darren its a right question.
But the correct answer to it is that the team that did those deals was not thoughtful.
It did not do the right kind of rigorous analysis reflection.
Did not weight the relative merits of partnership versus fighting and in particular in one instance didn't correctly calibrate what had happened after fighting a battle in Albuquerque.
Both Lovelace the hospital and the plan and us both sides came out significant losers.
The only ones who benefited were our collective competition.
The new team has since turned relationships around in that market and we are readying employees to work collaboratively with both Lovelace and the new plan.
The way these things should work assuming that we do get government approval on that transaction.
So rather than go through what would sound like a relatively vanilla characterization of different types of mistakes the root cause was the team that was working on it did not bring the right discipline and thoughtfulness and those people are not doing deals with us anymore.
Okay.
That's fair.
I guess may be that turns me to the next most obvious question is you just announced a fairly significant transaction this Tandigm joint venture.
So may be just given that there is a new more thoughtful team I guess that put that one together give us some background on how that deal came about what the model looks like and may be talk a little bit more about how that strategy will be different? Let me go ahead and take a quick stab and then Dr.
Samitt may want to add.
But this is the type of arrangement we might end up doing in other places and we certainly have a lot of major payors who are talking to us about types of arrangements like this.
IBC is the leading payor in that market with a very strong market position and a good reputation as a citizen in the healthcare community.
So we like that type of partner.
The way we structured it is the new venture is incented to succeed.
So neither parent company so to speak can get in the way because of any other considerations.
The new management team and the Board of Directors are incented structurally to deliver success for patients physicians and shareholders through that venture; and that's the only way to attract the kind of challenge you need to tackle the challenge in a market that does not have any significant integrated care penetration.
Lastly I would say the way its structured although it will not lead to any quick profit drop-through is very capital efficient; because we are not having to make any large acquisitions and because of the way the economics are structured the upfront operating losses are quite modest in particular quite modest relative to the long term market opportunity.
Craig is there anything you'd like to add? Sure KT.
Just four additional points.
The first is that the IBC-Tandigm transaction allowed us to review lessons learned from the prior deals that KT described in the past and focus on avoiding risks that we were faced with some of the other deals from prior to 2014.
The second is as you can see this is our new pilot in forging a team of equals relationship between a payor and a renowned delivery system.
And so we are optimistic that the shoulder-to-shoulder partnership will be highly effective.
In terms of structure we are through Tandigm enabling primary care physicians with supports from both the payor side which is very data and analytics rich and healthcare partners which is clinical care model and population health rich in managing the transition of Philadelphia marketplace from volume to value.
And fourth is the reason why this is a prime market for us is that Philadelphia is one of the highest cost of care marketplaces in the U.S.
with in fact the highest admission rate per thousand in the country.
So our expertise is very much needed in that market.
Makes sense.
My last question just about Tandigm.
What is your enrolment target if we think about this couple of years down the road how many lives do you think you will have in that arrangement? Its a fair question but there is just too much uncertainty at this point.
So giving you a number would be tantamount to just guessing -- if we succeed the number could be significant.
But succeeding is not going to be easy.
There are reasons why markets have high admit rates and part of our challenge is to establish a collaborative constructive relationship with the leading hospitals in order to collectively bring quality improvements and appropriate savings to the table shared by everyone.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
Thanks for taking the question.
I guess going back to Albuquerque; specifically it would appear that there was a meaningful decrease in performance sequentially.
Can you give us any more details around what was worse than you had originally expected just over the last quarter or so? I think Gary we don't want to go into any more micro detail on individual market.
So if you could just allow us to stick with having disclosed much more than we typically do already in individual market because we felt we needed to in order to answer the legitimate questions.
But I think we best leave it at that.
Okay.
I guess may be then a little bit bigger picture on the underperforming deals.
Can you may be discuss how much risk you feel is still there? Is there still some meaningful downside of things don't get better or on the same technology or do you feel like it sort of bottoms out? I would say we are much closer to bottoming out and so the ratio of upside to downside is attractive a breath of fresh air in an otherwise stuffy room.
So that's good news I would say.
Okay.
And then do you have any concern that the Blue Cross deal does not close in Albuquerque or is it just typical stuff that's maybe going to take longer? We don't have any insight really.
The Department of Justice keeps those things close to the vest certainly and periodical evidence would suggest that the deal will get approved.
But you never know for sure and particular if in the government's mind Blue Cross Blue Shield is unwilling to agree to reasonable conditions then all bets are off.
So we don't know enough to handicap other than these things typically as you know get closed.
Okay.
And then does any of this change the guidance you had given on the acquisition pace at HCP which I think was sort of two this year more next year and then a lot the year after? I would say at this point we are not changing anything.
Okay.
May be one question on the international comments that were made the losses I think Garry you said were $40 million and that changed.
What was it before? $25 million.
Sorry Gary.
That's very helpful.
And may be last question on dialysis what did you guys think of the revised parameters around the accountable care demo with the ESCOs? Before I answer that Gary let me go back and tweak my response to your question about the expected pipeline of significant deals in HealthCare Partners.
I think we probably should dial back that expectation a bit because we need to prove quickly that we can reliably deliver on what we say we are going to do before we should run around deploying any more of your capital.
So probably we pull that back a bit and can't quantify right now but at least directionally I think you should think about it that way.
On the ESCOs we know that we are incredibly passionate and bullish on our capability to dramatically improve quality and substantially reduce costs and deliver incredible patient experiences in an integrated care globally capitated or anything like it world for Kidney Care and we have proven it.
And we have proven it at significant scale with breadth and depth and so we so much want to bring that value to America and in so doing forcing others to invest and get better and better at the same time.
And we are very grateful that CMS has put so much time into trying to figure out a way to introduce a vehicle for making all that come true.
Having said that and being very appreciative of some of the changes they make we were disappointed in what they came out with and I think I will just stop there.
Would you say they are headed in the right direction and just need some minor tweaks or is it still significantly off-base for what you would need to really ramp up your involvement? We think there is just a couple very reasonable changes that would open up the gates to a beautiful pilot.
So we think its very doable and very reasonable.
You can't share any of those specifics with us? I don't think that would be good to get into on a big public forum.
We are sharing our thoughts with them and we are incredibly grateful that they are listening.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jason Gurda with KeyBanc.
Thank you.
Kent if we think about a deal that actually works out as it expected to how should we or how should we expect to see the multiyear impact on margins play out? Is it one to two years of initial losses followed by ever increasing margins after that or --? Yeah its a tough one to answer Jason because in HealthCare Partners every deal could be quite different depending whether we are primarily partnering with a hospital or a physician group or a payor or all of the above and whether or not they already have risk or whether or not we are just starting a new risk contract.
And so unfortunately given unlike dialysis every deal could be quite different.
You need to stare at our track record in order to draw the right inferences and extrapolations.
This is where we have made your life very difficult by having a lousy track record of doing new things.
And so we recognize the torturous position that our performance has put you in and we hope to make amends over the next couple of years.
All right.
Putting aside the Albuquerque decision.
You will be facing more Medicare Advantage rate cuts in 2015 making additional expansion in investments.
Should we expect operating income growth at HealthCare Partners next year? At this point I think we ought to stay silent on 2015 until we get a little more time and experience under our belt.
We are not comfortable saying OI is going to go down.
We are not comfortable saying its going to go up.
We are not comfortable sayings its going to be flat.
We need a few more months under our belt before we can give you a value added estimate.
Okay.
My last question would be I think you have warned in the past that the exchanges offer more downside than upside I think that's the way you put it.
Is there any early read on your relationships with the payors on the exchanges that any takeaways from the first quarter? Although its very preliminary because as you understand there is a lot of lag time in finding out exactly who is going to exchange and what exchange is going to pay and all that kind of stuff.
So with a big caveat on the fact that it is preliminary the early results are positive in the sense that we thought it was going to be quite bad and so far it is not.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Great thanks.
I guess a few questions on HCP.
You mentioned that -- I think you said half of the issue was related to deals in new markets and you mentioned contracts what was that comment related to? What was the other issue there? There are three drivers of the shortfall Kevin.
Half was the new market new business acquisition portfolio.
The second was the Tandigm $10 million previously excluded so doesn't represent underperformance.
The third component was a mistake we were 0.8% off in forecasting our actual MA rates across the markets and that 0.8% equals $4 million a quarter $16 million on a year right off the bottom line.
Its of course embarrassing for us to make a mistake like that but we did.
I guess though in that source bucket we see -- you said the deals fell into buckets of new acquisition and then taking on new risk contracts.
I just want to understand what you meant when you meant risk contracts as opposed to deals being new market entrants? Got it.
I am sorry Kevin I understand the question now.
There is one example where we just took over a network for a payor it was an unsuccessful MA network that they have been running by themselves and with some others unsuccessfully and we took it over from them with no exchange of capital involved.
Okay.
So you've basically assumed a new risk contract? Correct.
Is it a new market or an existing market? This was a new market and while we expected losses because we knew what their current economics were and some of that we were cushioned from and then some not.
The problem is the actual losses have exceeded the expected losses in the assumption of that contract.
Okay.
And then I guess broadly because that sounds hard to sell I guess sometimes maybe they are hard to differentiate.
But when you look at HCP would you say that it is more a cost issue or more a contract issue; because it feels like one might be easier to solve in a short period of time than others? I just wanted to get your thoughts around that.
Our primary problems there have been from unthoughtful contracting non-thorough due diligence and one very bad business decision.
Not our ability to drive integrated care not our ability to work with physicians in the community to drive quality improvements and savings and utilization etcetera.
The news on those scores is positive and so I think your diagnosis is correct.
The stuff that was done wrong is easily fixed and we think we are there.
Now also I want to add again we are doing new stuff and different stuff so there will still be an experience curve and there will still be a [indiscernible] issue.
But we already are way way way better on the dimensions that cause us the problems a year year and a half ago today.
Okay.
And I guess I understand the shortfall this year makes you reticent to kind of make predictions about next year.
But I think at the Analyst Day you were kind of thinking that you could be flat year-over-year in HCP depending on how the final rate came in with the risk adjusters.
It feels to me like the final rate for 2015 was better than one might have thought at the time.
This years numbers are lower it sounds like you feel like you understand to some degree that there is a contracting opportunity into next year and yet you're not comfortable to say that you will be better next year versus this year.
When you think about the swing factors if its not your ability to manage costs and that feels like its in control of the next year what are the factors that you could understand going into next year? Generally where the rates are generally what the contracting issues are that would stop you from growing next year? Yeah its very good logic Kevin as usual and I think the honest answer is just that if you're sitting in these chairs having been wrong now a few times we simply don't want to represent until we have done a lot more work analytical work on every aspect of the business before we start talking about stuff that's a year or two out.
Okay then I guess just last question.
California Duals do you have a sense there of how you will be participating in there what the revenue opportunity might be for you? Yeah Kevin this is Craig Samitt.
We are in active discussions with multiple payors who will be participating in the California Duals program.
We hope to be able to participate in the program but don't know yet if we will with which payors or for how many patients we will be providing care for.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
Thanks.
Thanks Kevin.
And your next question comes from Ben Andrew with William Blair.
Good afternoon and thank you for taking the questions.
Couple of things I guess to start Kent.
Is there some sense that the window of opportunity for transactions is tightening on you given both the lag between when you have been able to announce large transactions and that's perhaps what's being manifest in the need to move towards more partnerships than [indiscernible] acquisitions? Let me take a stab and see if I get it right.
There aren't very many mature proven MA risk management NDs that are around and independent anymore.
So there is not a lot of eight point bucks out in the forest.
And the good news is those that are out there are differentially interested in us because of our legacy and our reality of physician leadership.
So that's the bad news and good news on that side.
But we do these other partnerships not have a sense of need or not because of some notion that they are second best.
We actually think that they can be absolutely as good and effective as the conventional acquisitions.
And in fact the deal in Philadelphia is starting off with a very collaborative partnership with a leading physician IPA in the market.
Its not just a payor DaVita partnership.
The leading doctors who want to bring the improved quality and savings that comes from integrated care are very much onboard with the effort.
Okay.
And then looking at that Pennsylvania opportunity is kind of your first big foray in the northeast.
Are there other obvious markets in that region that makes sense for you all assuming that you're able to prove out the kind of the performance with this one? Yes.
Excellent.
And then I guess the only other question is on the international dialysis side.
The Saudi Arabian contracts and you have given us some good details on the startup there.
How quickly can that be a material contributor? Is this really going to be a multiple year process to bring that to something that moves the needle for the dialysis franchise internationally? Thanks.
Its going to be a couple years just because there is so many centers involved and so many patients that will be in a constant state of having a bunch of young immature centers where we have got operating costs but not many patients or zero patients as we build them and then just the classic issues of having overhead that's disproportionate to the revenue and tell you have enough centers up and running.
So its going to be a couple of years.
Thank you.
We will of course work very hard to provide analysis that allows you to gauge our progress and not just force you to sit back and wait for years until the portfolio matures.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Gary Taylor with Citi.
Hi good afternoon.
A few questions; one I just wanted to follow-up on the California Duals -- maybe I am incorrect but it was my understanding at LA County the plans were enrolling to Dual eligibles already.
So I would have thought they would have had provider networks in place but it doesn't sound like that's the case? That is correct.
The first phase of enrollment has begun.
Again we are in active discussions with multiple plans and do hope to be able to participate in the program.
We are not enrolling to-date at this point.
And therefore the plans do have lives that they are accountable for that they don't have organized networks for and people just keep on going to their existing provider with whatever management the plan itself can overlay.
But for them its just highly imperfect but pretty normal way to get something like this started.
So there is no revenue no operating loss -- income or loss expectations associated with this in the guidance or there is a little probability weighted something in there? Right now the premise is that there is nothing big that's going to go on good or bad with Duals and if we cut a deal that we think is material we will get back to you the moment it happens.
Got you.
On the other and corporate drag on the growth Kidney Care operating income which typically runs $22 million $26 million a quarter was actually zero this quarter and the gross Kidney Care operating income was down.
Was there a reclass or was there some unusual benefit this quarter? Would you just repeat the question please Gary and then either Jim Hilger or Jim Gustafson can hopefully nail it for you.
I am just looking year-over-year dialysis operating income a year ago $408 million.
You had $22 million of losses in other and corporate to take you through a net $386 million operating income.
This quarter the gross was $387 million you had zero net other and corporate to get a net $387 million.
So its up $1 million year-over-year but obviously the loss is from international ancillary and corporate were much lower than they typically are.
So I didn't know if there was a reclass between those or some unusual benefit in the other and corporate lines this quarter? Jim [ph] can someone give a good answer? The improvement is in DaVita RX and in international.
Year-on-year the accounts are almost solved.
And is that recurring? Why don't Gary you give us a minute because it just sends too much tentativeness in the answers.
So give us a couple of minutes and we will get back to you.
Okay.
So unrelated though I mean Kent you characterized dialysis performance as strong.
So the gross dialysis operating income was from $408 million a year ago down to $387 million.
How does that translate to strong -- Very fair and by that standard it wasn't strong relative to our guidance and our fears about what 2014 might look like.
We actually feel -- on our side we are feeling very-very good.
But compared to the standard that you just set forth reasonably you're right you could then say it was just -- you could say whatever you want.
Okay.
Last question and maybe I will reveal my ignorance here.
You said treatment days down three days year-over-year and I calculate weekdays the same and Saturdays the same.
So was that weather related or am I just not understanding how you calculate treatment days? This is Jim Gustafson.
That's sequential Gary from Q4 to Q1 not year-over-year.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Okay that's all I had.
All right.
Thank you.
I will point out one I think it was mentioned earlier in the call but we did have a significant increase in some of our costs including EPO which is part of why you see the OI number on the dialysis side that Gary you were talking about.
Okay operator.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Ransom with Raymond James.
Hi.
I just want to demonstrate my grasp of the obvious.
The deal in Pennsylvania just to think about expectations for that division.
You're probably going to have to do five to 10 of those deals and its probably going to take a couple of years before we start seeing some material EBITDA from that strategy is that a fair way to think about it and is that a reasonable pipeline? Yes sir.
Yes on both? Say again please? Yes to both questions? So you need 5% to 10% or its going to take a couple of years? Maybe better say both questions again so I am not being -- I am not too cryptic.
No I am saying it looks like it would take a couple of years by your own reckoning and then may be you have to do five to seven deals like this and a couple of years before you start to see some material EBITDA to the enterprise is that a fair way to think about it and is this the new template going forward? Well if we are successful the Philadelphia joint venture could be of pretty serious size just like healthcare partners in California and Florida and Nevada.
And so the numbers could be substantial therefore you don't have to do lots and lots of them if you succeed and they grow at a nice steady pace.
Having said that we do want to do more than one.
We do not think this will be the last time we use a model like this and in many other instances however we will still be a majority owner.
In this particular case the payor had such a strong market position and because of some other aspects of the agreement as well 50-50 just seemed like the right thing to do.
Now the other question you have a fairly small percentage of their MA lives in total.
What's the trigger to get more than what you have? Or is it -- are you in the short term or you just kind of limit these 300 primary care doctors or is there a trigger to expand this beyond what I'd call kind of a [indiscernible] to a broader relationship with their other MA lives? John I am sorry I missed the beginning of the question.
Can you repeat that again? Sure.
I am sorry.
You have a fairly small percentage of their MA lives.
I am talking about the Blue Cross plan.
What's the trigger to get a bigger percentage? Are you limited in the short term that is the 300 docs? We are beginning to venture with the 300 physicians.
But the hope and expectation is that we would expand the contracted network with Tandigm beyond the 300 physicians through this year and into next year as well.
So our expectation is that our membership of both MA and commercial will grow in this venture.
But its not -- you have to wait a year or you can grow it during the year and next year there is something like -- we are going to try this for a year and see how it goes and then we will extend it.
So you can grow this as it happens? There is no specific trigger before we can expand this network.
Okay.
Thank you.
But I will add you don't want to take too many lives if they are being cared for by physicians who are not committed or positively interested in the new model.
Okay operator.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from Lisa Clive with Sanford Bernstein.
Hi.
Just one question going back to integrated care on the dialysis side.
Your Village Health business has been going along for several years and obviously with ESCO not quite exactly the way you want it.
What should we think about for the outlook of integrated care on your non-Medicare fee-for-service patients? The question is what kind of growth can we expect on the Village Health side? Is there a reasonable care price? Yeah.
And maybe not specific growth but sort of what are your long term plans there? Is there a way to move into integrated care without the ESCO program or is there -- how are you thinking about that clearly? DaVita RX is a big platform for you but what else should we think about as opportunities there? Village Health we can grow it outside of the ESCO program.
Not as cleanly and as aggressively as we could if there was an attractive ESCO program.
But yes we can continue to nudge it along and push it along.
In addition one of Village Health's great benefits is it adds value to our fee-for-service clients who then can take that value into account when we are negotiating dialysis rates.
So just because we are not capitated or at risk with them doesn't mean that they cannot appreciate the impact on quality in total costs and how that reflected and monetized in part through conventional fee for service rates.
But to the first part of your question where we will continue to strive to grow Village Health everywhere we can.
It just won't be rapid without a government program that works.
Okay great.
And then maybe actually just one last question on the ESCO program itself.
Under the current ESCO 2.0 it seems like the size is still pretty limited.
Assuming you can get over your or you can reach an agreement with CMS on the few outstanding issues that you have how many patients would you ideally like to enroll in this product program? Oh if we like the program we like to take the whole program to ourselves.
I think they are putting a cap of 15 000 or 20 000 and of course they would never allocate more than X percent to us and we would take that in a second and double it if we could if we just get a couple of changes.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
All right.
Thank you.
And we do have one question that just queued up Whit Mayo with Robert Baird.
Your line is open.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
You guys gave the OI for the legacy HCP markets but can you also share the revenue and how margins would have compared versus the prior year? We can't do it spontaneously and we will think about doing it for the next call let us sort that out.
We want to make sure there is reasonable boundaries on how much market specific stuff we talk about; because in general its not in your best interest for us to go to deep market-by-market.
We violated our normal policy because we felt we had to do it in order to be responsible in discussing our current performance to you.
But I am not at all sure we are going to want to go where you're going.
No I can appreciate that.
But I guess may be directionally can you confirm that margins were higher this year versus the prior year? Anything to kind of point us in the right direction without divulging too much specific data? I think not and let us just reflect after the call and if I am making the wrong game time [ph] decision Jim and Garry will correct it.
No that's fair.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And at this time we show no further questions.
All right.
Thank you all very much.
We will -- wait a minute we have some breaking information.
Just wanted to respond to Gary's question.
Gary the answer to your question is we had better overall results in our ancillary businesses which includes international.
And the management -- the corporate charges were down because we are allocating corporate costs among our various operated segments.
And that is a change on the corporate charges.
Okay.
So hopefully Gary that took care of that one and our early answer we apologize was misleading.
So I am glad we are able to correct it quickly and thank you all very much for your interest in us.
We will do our best to do what we said we were going to do going forward.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's call.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jenny and I will be your conference coordinator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to DaVita HealthCare Partners Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Gustafson you may begin your conference now.
Thank you Jenny and welcome everyone to our second quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in the company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations.
And with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Garry Menzel our CFO; and Jim Hilger our Chief Accounting Officer.
First I must apologize for the delay in our press release today.
Our wire service messed up and didn't get it loaded in time.
We'll make sure this does not happen in the future.
Next I'd like to move with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Okay thanks Jim and greetings to everyone else.
I've been out sick so far this week so if there's some moments when I push the mute button it's to save you from hearing a bunch of coughing so please bear with me.
First our enterprise had another solid quarter as you've seen in the press release.
That consists of 2 parts: a strong quarter in Kidney Care with their OI of $402 million and I'll let Garry cover most of those results; and then not a strong quarter in HealthCare Partners and I'll take care of discussing that.
But first as always we'll talk about our clinical outcomes as that is what comes first.
We are taking care of about 35% of the patients in dialysis centers in America.
98% of those are achieving a Kt/V of 1.2 or better 73% have a fistula in place.
In addition there's many other complex clinical improvement programs among them for example fluid management where we've decreased by 15% the number of patients with excessive fluid gain between treatments over the past 10 months which for those of you that are clinically oriented you realize it's a big deal.
On the HCP front we take care of nearly 830 000 patients on a comprehensive basis and our 2013 HEDIS clinical metrics are pretty outstanding across-the-board in each of our legacy markets.
Right now we'll just focus briefly on California results and just talk about cancer screening and diabetes management where we're either 4 or a 5-star across all of our Medicare Advantage MA patients including 80% of our patients receiving colorectal cancer screenings that compares to a 2012 national average of 62%.
And if you go back to our 2012 numbers we were already at 80% back then so the gap is a legitimate gap.
In addition 64% of our diabetic patients with cholesterol scores below 100 versus a 52% national average.
And once again our score back in 2012 from whence that national average comes was comparable back then to today so it's a legitimate gap.
So the clear message on both fronts is that our clinical outcomes are relatively outstanding leading to healthier patients higher patient satisfaction and importantly savings to taxpayers.
But onto the HCP operating performance.
You see the reported OI of $82 million.
That overstates the performance for reasons I'll get to in a second.
But within that number is very solid performance again in our 3 legacy markets which generated $77 million in operating income and approximately $118 million in EBITDA and this was of course to some extent offset by our expenses in new markets particularly New Mexico and Arizona.
Trying to get right to the bottom line question the overall the recurring normalized OI is about $55 million.
Now let me do some parsing to help you understand those aggregate numbers.
The OI for the quarter benefited from the recognition of some net deferred revenues approximately $20 million related to the maintenance of existing physician networks in some of our new markets of which $6 million was related to the first quarter of 2014 and of the remaining $20 million most of it primarily related to 2013.
In other words even though we knew it was likely at the time we couldn't realize these revenues at the time but the first quarter of '14 was $6 million better than we could report at that time and 2013 was nearly $20 million better than what we could report at that time.
There were also some non-period-specific items in the quarter.
They effectively offset each other for a net of approximately 0.
On the positive side was MA revenue.
There was finalization of some of those rates and true-ups which historically doesn't happen until Q3 and it happened in Q2.
On the other hand we had some negative increases to our medical loss reserves for prior periods and some error adjustments related to 2013.
And again the net of those puts and takes was about 0 leading to that normalized Q2 OI run rate of about $55 million.
Our guidance already assumes lower margins in the second half which mirrors historical trends because sicker patients with higher risk scores some of them expire in the second half of the year and some younger and healthier patients age into MA and so that's a natural annual trend.
Some other good news is that in terms of MA patient growth year-over-year in our 3 legacy markets non-acquired MA patient growth of about 12% and non-acquired MA growth across all markets 18%.
So very nice robust unit growth in the MA segment.
One of the piece of good news is that it is highly likely that in New Mexico and Arizona the 2 most economically significant new markets their performance in '15 should be at least $25 million better in OI next year maybe more so.
Obviously we can't lock and load that as a total certainty but it's highly likely at least $25 million better in '15 versus '14.
And in both cases we have a stronger team and a better strategic position than we had 6 to 9 months ago.
On the organizational front as many of you know I'm stepping in to run HealthCare Partners for the foreseeable future and I'll be spending a significant majority of my time there.
It's been a difficult 18 months for all stakeholders and would be difficult for me to overstate how excited I am to step out under the field myself and lead that wonderful physician-led organization that puts a great value proposition of coordinated care on the table.
And on that point of physician leadership two of my key physician partners will be Dr.
Tyler Jung who was our recently named new Chief Medical Officer who first joined HealthCare Partners in 1996 as a working hospitalist; and Dr.
Chen Chuong [ph] our new Chief Clinical Officer who's been with HealthCare Partners since 2002 and was the primary direct report to the previous Chief Medical Officer so deep deep experience on the physician side; as well as Dennis Kogod who was as you will recall Chief Operating Officer on the Kidney Care side and now is picking up some pretty significant tenure as COO on the HCP side.
People might ask questions about Kidney Care but you see in the results that Javier Rodriguez and Mike Staffieri currently the CEO and COO on the Kidney Care side have a combined nearly 30 years experience with DaVita Kidney Care and are well ready to carry on the momentum that currently exists since they were some of the primary creators of that momentum all along.
So I'd just step back for a moment and look at the strategic position of our 3 businesses.
On the U.S.
Kidney Care side we're well-positioned from a relative performance basis.
There's consistent market growth and we've consistently grown faster than the market.
Our clinical outcomes are outstanding and getting better every year.
At the same time we've got to acknowledge the substantial environmental risk especially on the reimbursement front.
With respect to international we are continuing to move towards establishing a solid foundation that could be a platform for years and years of risk-adjusted attractive profit growth for the enterprise.
And as a minor anecdotal tidbit we will open our first center in Saudi Arabia under our bid contract there within the next 8 weeks.
On the HCP side population health management as just about everybody in the call knows is a seemingly pervasive trend throughout America.
And our value proposition is strong.
Our foundation is strong.
In the near term we may have to weather some significant reimbursement headwinds.
As you all know we'll be stabilizing some of the new market performances.
We're going to enhance our value proposition including in legacy markets and I look forward with a particular eagerness in working on that with the teams there.
And then we start to grow.
We've got a lot of growth opportunities.
We've selected a handful we'll probably select a handful more and we look forward to having those mature in the years to come.
Now Garry Menzel will walk through some more detail particularly on Kidney Care.
Thank you Kent.
First additional comments on our Kidney Care operating metrics.
Non-acquired dialysis treatment growth in the quarter was 5% when normalized for days of the week.
Dialysis segment profitability was up $21 million sequentially as a result of 2 factors: first there were 1.5 more treatment days in the quarter; second there was a seasonal decrease in payroll taxes from quarter 1 highs as our teammates hit annual caps.
Our international losses were $9 million for the quarter.
That is in line with our forecast to lose $40 million in 2014 as we ramp up our startup costs in Saudi Arabia in the second half of the year.
Moving to the overall enterprise.
Our debt expense was $106 million in the second quarter excluding the $98 million in nonrecurring refinancing charges.
As previously announced we have refinanced our bank loans and much of our bond debt reducing our effective interest rate and extending maturities.
We expect quarterly debt expense to be approximately $100 million going forward.
Next the effective tax rate attributable to DaVita HealthCare Partners was 40.5% in the quarter in line with our expected range of 40% to 41% for the full year 2014.
Turning to cash flow.
We continue to generate strong cash flows as operating cash flow was $262 million in the second quarter and $1.77 billion over the last 12 months.
Finally I would like to address our outlook.
Our updated enterprise operating income guidance is now $1.755 billion to $1.840 billion.
This includes number one reducing the high end of our HCP guidance so that the range is now $205 million to $240 million.
This includes the onetime Q2 revenue benefits that Kent discussed earlier.
And number two increasing Kidney Care guidance of $1.55 billion to $1.60 billion.
We still expect operating cash flow to be between $1.45 billion and $1.55 billion in 2014 excluding any payments associated with the potential PRI settlement with the government.
As always these guidance ranges capture a majority of probabilistic outcomes but we could be above or below this range.
And with that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Mr.
Justin Lake JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question just Kent maybe you can give us some color as to what drove the decision-making on the leadership change at HCP.
And then can you give us also some color on what your -- how much of your day-to-day time is going to be spent at HCP going forward versus what it was over the last 6 to 12 months? Yes.
Thanks Justin for the questions.
On the second question I'll be spending a significant majority of my time on HealthCare Partners.
On the first question as you know historically we don't typically comment on personnel issues.
So I think I just stay away from that and reiterate how excited I am to step into that role after the last 18 months of some difficulty as you know.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Maybe Kent the way -- better way to ask it is just if maybe you can lay out for us the 2 or 3 or 4 things that are on the top of your agenda to get accomplished as a change agent coming in there? Yes.
I think it's the things that I mentioned.
And they're going to sound relatively generic but hopefully they'll emerge in a very substantive and nongeneric way.
But it is to deepen the value proposition in existing markets with respect to MLR management and patient loyalty ability to attract and retain physicians et cetera.
So it's sort of power alley fastball down the middle improvements of the value proposition in legacy markets.
It's to stabilize continue to stabilize and improve things in the 2 new markets that have consumed the most economic resources and it's to selectively grow.
And as I mentioned we've already identified a handful of very promised opportunities and are in various stages of execution on those and are picking from a bunch more for the next handful.
So I think that's kind of the trilogy of focus.
If that's helpful I recognize it's quite generic at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question just on HCP again.
One you mentioned that you expect $25 million of improvement.
I didn't catch what was driving that.
And then secondly in terms of the startup losses or the new market losses can you give us a reasonable trajectory as to when you think you can get them back to breakeven? On the first question Justin I don't think we want to break out the $25 million because it's a couple different markets it's a lot of different variables.
I think the important news for shareholders is just that we're feeling good at at least a year-over-year $25 million pickup which is a very significant amount especially in 2 markets where we have a nontrivial market position to build from.
And then as to exactly what their net economic statuses and when they hit it I don't think we want to get into that level of detail.
And in part there are decisions in each place and we may decide to have losses go on longer.
Because of the returns we think we'll ultimately get it's really too difficult to predict.
So unfortunately I got to stay away from that.
Our next question comes from Ms.
Darren Lehrich Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Dana Nentin in for Darren.
Just as it relates to HCP on the new market entry strategy can you just discuss progress with Tandigm Health JV in Philly and then maybe update us on any similar types of relationships you have? Tandigm the short answer is it's going well but of course that has to be qualified by the fact it's still in the early stage.
We hit our target of 300 primary care physicians who signed up to work with Tandigm which is exactly what we wanted.
They are the physicians we were hoping would join.
They are physicians that are committed to moving forward with IBC as a big payer and us in order to start to improve managed care in that community.
And so without at all underestimating the business challenges to come so far it's right on track.
We've got the right partners we've got the right tools we've got the right momentum but there's a lot of work ahead of us and time will tell.
And then I guess Dana the other question is might there be others? The short answer is yes.
It's a model that attracted a lot of interest.
We just have to decide how many we want to do at what pace.
Now we don't want to get ahead of ourselves in terms of our capabilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then continuing on HCP can you just discuss medical cost trends in the quarter and whether your margin outlook has changed given the utilization environment? I don't think we have anything material to say on that.
There hasn't been anything dramatic going on one way or another within the quarter.
And so it's sort of business as usual which is not to say it's a smooth line but there's nothing noteworthy I think in the quarter itself.
And next we have Mr.
Kevin Fischbeck Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So I guess I just want to understand how the offsetting dynamics in the quarter that you mentioned in HCP works.
You're saying that the Medicare rates you don't expect to happen in Q3 happened in Q2 so maybe it was net neutral to this quarter.
But is it still net negative when you think about the yearly guidance? Well certainly it means that Q3 will be missing that incremental boost.
It would have already happened but that reality is incorporated into our total guidance for the year.
And so it doesn't change our guidance the fact that it moved from Q3 to Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just to understand the guidance then because you basically got $20 million of out-of-period revenue but you kept the low end the same you took the high end down by $20 million.
So did you really take the low end down by $20 million and the high end down by $40 million on a 2014 kind of earnings space then? Could you repeat the question please? Research Division</strong> Well so your guidance for HCP I believe kept the low end of the range and reduced the high end by $20 million.
But you're saying you got $20 million out-of-period revenue and theoretically operating income.
So if you're just trying to focus on what you actually earned in 2014 did you essentially take the low end down by $20 million and the high end down by $40 million.
No we did not this is Jim Gustafson because we had already incorporated the probability-weighted impact of this into our guidance.
So that had already been incorporated into the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the potential to kind of pick up prior year revenue for things like this is something that we should expect to happen and therefore not -- every year and therefore not to adjust out of the operating income even though it is related to the prior year? Let me take a stab at that.
There's a certain amount of puts and takes in an IBNR-intensive business that happen all the time.
And so what we try to highlight for you is when there's an unusual number of them which we've had a time or two in the last 18 months and when it's more than normal offsetting puts and takes.
Does that help answer -- there's no black and white answer.
You never expect a year in this kind of business without some prior period adjustments but you also don't expect too many of them.
Is that answering the question? Research Division</strong> Well I guess maybe the better way to ask it is when you talk about next year being better by $25 million do you mean it off of this current guidance rather than off of the 2014 actual earnings in the current period? Okay I get the question now.
I apologize for missing it before.
The comment on $25 million improvement was focused on the 2 significant new markets of New Mexico and Arizona that in those competitive arenas we are confident of a year-over-year $25 million OI improvement.
That $25 million then would become a factor in the aggregate HCP performance which we're not commenting on now.
We were just highlighting a delta in those 2 new markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess -- I think you said that the network $25 million number was mostly new market.
Is that right? So either with that extra new market income this year you're going to do $25 million better than that next year? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then I guess when we think about -- you mentioned that there's a number of things that you're analyzing now there's a number of things you've kind of got in the hopper for the next round of things.
How do you think about the competitive landscape? I guess there was recently an article about how there's a record number of ACOs and doctors and hospitals competing for physician alignment and things like that.
Do you as a company look at this and say "We kind of have to do more than maybe we're ready for in the next 12 to 24 months because if we wait 5 years all the partners who are the strongest partners will have done something?" How do you balance that as you analyze the opportunity set? Yes very fair question.
In general on the one hand there is increased supply of competition more and more people trying to do population health management.
On the other hand there has been a proportional increase in demand for the same.
And so I don't think there's been any fundamental change in the demand-supply relationship which is what really matters and nor are things going to happen quickly or I should say there will not be a lot of successes quickly.
An awful lot of the people who are getting into this space or who've gotten into it in the last year or 2 or 3 are failing if not on an absolute basis on a relative basis.
And so I think from a strategic point of view the important thing is to maintain a differentiated better product and in that context there'll be no shortage of opportunities for the next 5 to 10 years.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Kevin Ellich Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Kent just wanted to kind of follow up on the ACO questions.
What are your updated thoughts on the care coordination model and even maybe greater use of certain physicians maybe even in hospital medicine? Can you elaborate a little further on the question? I think I would be groping if I answered now.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Sure.
So one of your big competitors recently made its entry into the Hospitalists industry and it was kind of an interesting move.
Obviously a lot of hospital medicine is used in the ACO integrated care model.
I'm wondering if you guys could look to expand into that area specifically in terms of improving the coordination of care between acute and post-acute patients.
Okay.
Let me take a stab at it.
You let me know if I'm not responding.
We have some of the best Hospitalists operations in America now embedded within our existing markets and up to this point have opted not to try to create what we might call a vertical and take certain capabilities outside of our legacy markets and sell them market them implement them on an isolated vertical basis.
However strategically that is something we talk about regularly.
Just up to this point we've never opted to do it.
Research Division</strong> No.
That's helpful.
And then going back to your comments about population health management.
Just wondering what do you think are the keys to driving improvement in outcomes within population health management? And then also do you think there are any hot button issues in that category as well? Well I think one of the primary tenets of our answer to that question and one of the ways in which we're highly differentiated is that we believe putting the physicians in the spot of operating leadership is critical and that's part of the legacy of HealthCare Partners it's part of why we've been as successful as we've been.
So I think that and investing in technology over the next 3 5 7 years those are 2 of the primary components of the answer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then lastly -- no actually 2 questions.
Thoughts on biogenerics coming in on the ESA front like Mircera.
Do you have any pilots or plan to have any pilots where you could use new ESAs? And then could you prioritize uses of capital? Okay.
On the biogenerics we of course like any customer like it when there's -- when our suppliers whether they be vendors or partners have competition.
And so no surprise we're in favor of there being new entrants into all products and drugs and biogenerics that we have to purchase.
We're wildly in favor of that.
And we will work with some companies bringing new stuff to the market if the terms make sense.
And at the same time we value very highly our historical relationship with Amgen and the clinical value of the drug that they provide.
On the capital allocation I think the way we've answered this best historically is to have people look in the rearview mirror and see that over 15 years we've done a lot of different things in terms of our leverage ratio in terms of buying back stock in terms of paying down debt in terms of changing the nature of our debt in terms of investing in acquisitions and et cetera et cetera et cetera.
And so I think we bring a pretty open mind to what is the right way to think about capital allocation that's very time-specific fact-specific et cetera always trying to manage the risk-adjusted upside for our shareholders.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Gary Lieberman Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit about how you view the change of the risk adjusters next year on the Med Advantage business and how significant of a positive that could be to HCP? Well I would just say our expectations on that are baked into our guidance for this year and next year we've not provided guidance for.
And certainly whatever the government decides to do -- well I guess can you repeat the question? Are you talking about '15 or '16 Gary? LLC Research Division</strong> '15.
Well there we have the positive of some adjustments to what they were doing on risk adjustments versus the negative of reductions to the underlying rates.
And so as we provide you with guidance for '15 there will be a netting of those 2 effects.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess how are you thinking about '16? Who knows? I mean it's just so hard to predict what the government is going to do with -- if they compress acuity scoring that hurts us because we have a lot of high acuity patients and we think it would be a big mistake for the Medicare program to do that because you want to attract investment in the ill people and make them healthier that's when the whole system works in a virtuously reinforcing way clinically and economically.
So if they compress acuity scoring that's bad.
On the other hand of course if they leave that the same but drop underlying overall rates that's bad too.
So we kind of have to wait and see where they come out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your comments regarding new markets on HCP.
It sounds somewhat more bullish than maybe you've been in the past.
I guess in the past you've talked about entering refresh my memory 2 or 3 markets this year with a couple more next year and a lot more the year after that.
Is that still the way to think about that? Or could that be accelerated somewhat? I would not presume any acceleration.
And in fact in the last quarter I if anything nudged expectations towards deceleration.
But I think that the difficulty here is sort of the unit of measure.
We are going to do some new things and then probably more new things next year and more the year after and so on.
If you just use that as sort of the crude metric those words are probably still true.
However the math on a lot of those things is going to be quite small in the early years just like Tandigm is not something that's going to have a huge immense impact for a whole bunch of reasons tied to our strategy with our partner.
And so the number of things we do might be quite significant but the math of it is very hard to predict and is probably not going to be as significant as the unit number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then probably maybe just an update on the recovery in Albuquerque? I don't think it's a good idea to go into a huge amount of individual market detail.
Again we did want to convey that in the 2 new markets that have been consuming the most resources we're looking at a very nice year-over-year improvement '15 over '14 and the odds of that will happen are very high.
And probably just leave it at that.
As you do know the government approved the acquisition by Blue Cross Blue Shield of the MA plan and that's a good thing for us because it puts us back in network and our number of lives our MA lives has gone up in a very nice fashion since then.
But to start slicing and dicing it I don't think is a good idea.
The aggregate math is probably the best way to characterize it.
Our next question comes from Ms.
Margaret Kaczor William Blair.
Research Division</strong> A few for me.
First you guys haven't talked about the number of international patients you have right now in a while.
What is that number today? Between 5 000 and 6 000 at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then at what point really does that become material? Because I think that's about 100% growth year-over-year.
Is that right? Off hand I don't know but it must be something in that ballpark.
It's -- we have not provided a forecast of patient growth internationally for a reason because there's going to be too wide a range of outcomes at this point.
We've been very pleased with the growth that's exceeded our expectations.
And so I think we just have to stop there and keep on reporting it.
But it's too -- there's too much uncertainty right now as you divide it across the 10 countries that we're operating in to allow us to give you a high confidence forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk a little bit about the growth in home dialysis? Are you guys still investing in that? Is there still opportunity in PD or HHD? Or is it kind of penetrated now with the bundle? Home dialysis continues to grow and we think that trend will continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more for me.
Can you give any update on kind of the dual eligible contracts that you've seen right now in California? Is it something you've kind of been walking away from right now or still kind of in negotiations? When should we hear something about that? We're quite excited about dual strategically and we have 1 contract buttoned up and signed and a few thousand lives already signed up.
And at this point we would estimate in that contract alone we might very well end up with 10 000 or so.
In addition we're still in discussions with a couple of other parties.
But even with this 1 contract we're very excited that we're going to get an opportunity to develop some new muscles and demonstrate the power of some old ones.
And so so far that's playing itself out very very nicely and hopefully going to lead to a lot of growth in the future.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Matthew Borsch Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask on HCP.
If you can talk at all about how your payer contracts have evolved if at all.
Imagine with all the changing reimbursement is that a place where you had intense negotiations over the last year? Or is it then sort of steady state on that front? Yes there've been intense negotiations.
And as we've said consistently the portfolio of contracts will be amended over time and in general where we come from is making them more and more partnership-oriented with aligned upside and downside as opposed to confrontational upside downside or whatever is the opposite of aligned.
And some payers are very philosophically open to that others are not.
Hence -- and in either case there's intense negotiations as to what that means.
So we've made some nontrivial progress but the portfolio will take a while to resolve itself.
And some parts will never be aligned.
Just like in Kidney Care when we stated that we wanted to move towards more bundled contracts in the private sector we did so over 5 years but still to this day are not to the point where every private contract is bundled.
Research Division</strong> And given some of the challenges that you had with HCP has that made you think more or less about the possibility of offering HCP as its own plan if you will either on your own or in some form of partnership? Is that something that you have any change in interest in in the last 2 years? No.
It hasn't changed our views on that at all which is to say strategically we are open to being a plan.
If at any point that makes strategic sense and if we have the right relationships and contracts with existing plans that may never be necessary.
And there are no further questions on the phone at this time.
Okay.
Thank you all for your interest in DaVita HealthCare Partners and we will do our best for you over the next 3 months.
Have a good day.
That concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kim and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the DaVita HealthCare Partners Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Gustafson you may begin your conference.
Thank you Kim and welcome everyone to our third quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations.
And with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Garry Menzel our CFO; Jim Hilger our Chief Accounting Officer; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings included in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I'll now turn over the call to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Jim and greetings to all.
Thank you for your consideration of our company.
In Q3 we had solid results in Kidney Care in HealthCare Partners and overall.
Kidney Care OI being $408 million adjusted for nonrecurring items and HealthCare Partners being $47 million.
As always we'll talk about clinical outcomes first because we are first and foremost a caregiving entity.
On the Kidney Care side in America we take care of 35% of all the dialysis patients.
98% of our patients achieved a Kt/V of 1.2 or better and 73% of patients have a fistula in place.
Turning to HealthCare Partners and our 836 000 human beings for whom we provide integrated care.
I'd like to talk a little bit about 2013 HEDIS clinical metrics which most of you are familiar with.
There are 12 clinical measures in HEDIS all of which feed into the Star rating system.
And I'm looking at a page right now that has those 12 rows and it has 3 columns one for each of our legacy markets.
So a total of 36 cells.
24 of those 36 are 5-star rankings 7 of them are 4.
And then there's only 5 left that are 3 with none below.
There are very few providers of any scale in the entire MA program that would have anywhere close to a rating system like that and we're proud of it.
It's good for patients and it's good for our payer partners.
The clinical outcomes for both Kidney Care and HealthCare Partners compare very favorable -- very favorably excuse me to national averages.
We have healthier patients.
We have higher patient satisfaction.
And both of those things besides being good in and of themselves saves money for taxpayers and employers.
Now a little elaboration on HCP's operating performance which was solid.
You'll note that the guidance assumes lower margins in the fourth quarter.
This is a normal trend because of the fact that sicker patients with higher risk scores expire as the year proceeds.
Younger healthier patients age into MA and there's typically some uptick in medical utilization as we enter the winter months.
On the HealthCare Partners business development.
We've increased the level of activity modestly.
And it's a lot of high-quality conversations that have been started.
We still have a long way to go in terms of capabilities and the sales cycle itself is long.
But the way we think about it is pretty much divided in 2 categories: mainstream and new models partnership.
On the mainstream front as most of you know we recently announced an exciting acquisition of Colorado Springs Health Partners the leading group in Colorado Springs Colorado.
And we look forward to growing with them not only leading them into a world of coordinated care but also growing on the fee-for-service side.
And then separately we've got a number of creative and exciting hospital partnerships at the very serious stage one of which was announced today.
A 50/50 joint venture with the Centura Health system here in Colorado.
It's a leading health system in the state.
These 2 different Colorado deals are entirely separate.
We are the 100% owner of the Colorado Springs health care partner group but we look forward to having our group work with the joint venture with Centura and moving forward pursuing and managing global contracts.
We'd also like to initiate 2015 guidance.
The enterprise guidance is $1.75 billion to $1.9 billion.
In other words relatively flat to the current reality.
Underneath that the Kidney Care operating income $1.525 billion to $1.625 billion.
This reflects the sad fact that it'll be the second year in a row with no Medicare increase and we'll face normal cost increases.
Things are getting more intense because of stuff like this.
We expect to have 15 center closures by the end of the year.
That's more than any other year I can remember.
And we are still carrying 200 unprofitable centers after that point and that's excluding any new de novos.
It's also a tougher commercial pay environment.
The growth in more restrictive narrow-network plans means that we may very well lose some market share on the commercial side as we will be unwilling to accept lower commercial rates.
We need unfortunately high commercial rates to subsidize the losses that we incur in the 90% of our patients that are government.
Moving on to HealthCare Partners and guidance of $225 million to $275 million.
This also reflects relatively flat MA reimbursement in the face of normal cost increases.
And on top of that we are investing in infrastructure and capability improvements.
And finally we will once again always have some losses in new markets or at least hopefully always as we hope to enter some new markets each year.
And in many cases the most capital efficient way to do that is with low-capital models that therefore have losses operating losses in their early years.
Moving on to 2016.
We'd like to go beyond providing 2015 guidance in this case because we have 2 serious headwinds that are potentially quite material.
The first of those and the biggest is Medicare reimbursement on both sides of the house.
And then secondarily the tough commercial pay environment that I already cited on the Kidney Care side is not going to go away in 2015.
And so that -- or those 2 combined with the earnings headwinds that will come from the new markets we hope to enter means that while it's too early to provide any specific guidance for 2016 the factors I just mentioned lead us to need to communicate to you that there is a real risk that 2016 operating income could be lower than 2015.
I'd like to segue into a quick editorial on Medicare Advantage in particular and just the incredible importance of CMS needing to get those rates correct.
America needs the sickest patients to join Medicare Advantage and those likely to become the sickest because those are the patients where we add the most clinical value for the patient and economic value for the country.
And we are at risk of moving into a danger zone where the economics of making the right investments in those 2 sets of patients become unsustainable.
If I step back from 2015 and '16 for a moment and just quickly look at the strategic position of our primary businesses.
U.S.
Kidney Care is well positioned as we've talked about in the past.
We have strong clinical outcomes and that increasingly matters.
We're growing faster than the market.
It's a life-saving therapy.
And our ability to manage total patient costs not just dialysis costs is increasingly differentiated.
However we do live in the uncomfortable world where we rely on higher private pay rates to subsidize the government.
On the HealthCare Partners front despite a rocky first 18 months the fundamental value proposition remains intact.
Integrated care and population health management are what we do well and that's what lots of people want to move to.
We have a solid foundation in our legacy markets.
And I'd like to talk about what I'm focused on in the near term since I've now been quite engaged for 4 or 5 months.
Not in order of importance but number one adding to the team; number two adding to the capabilities; number three fix the problem spots; number four explore new partnership models a couple of which I've already talked about; and number five is pursue selective growth.
All of this is in the context for HealthCare Partners good news which is that everyone expects MA growth to continue because it is a superior way of taking care of people and taking care of America's economics.
On the international front I'll just say we're continuing to make solid progress.
Of course there is risk in that venture but the potential is huge as health care service is a growth industry across the globe.
Now Garry Menzel our CFO will cover some more stuff.
Thank you KT.
Starting with Kidney Care.
Non-acquired dialysis treatment growth in the quarter was 4.9% when normalized for days of the week.
Profitability was up $6 million sequentially.
Our international losses were $13 million for the quarter and we now expect those losses for 2014 to be slightly above $40 million.
For the overall enterprise our debt expense was $100 million in the third quarter.
This is a good run rate for debt expense going forward.
Our income attributable to noncontrolling interest was $36 million in the third quarter which is also a good run rate going forward.
Next the effective tax rate attributable to DaVita HealthCare Partners was 38.7% in the quarter and we now expect the full year rate for 2014 to be in the range of 39.5% to 40%.
Turning to cash flow.
We continue to generate strong cash flows as operating cash flow was $848 million in the third quarter and $1.88 billion over the last 12 months.
This was unusually high due to: one the timing of cash tax payments; and two the timing of various working capital items in particular a reduction in accounts receivable DSO which we do not expect to repeat next year.
We now expect operating cash flow to be between $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion in 2014 excluding any payments associated with the settlement with the government.
We expect 2015 operating cash flow to be between $1.5 billion and $1.7 billion lower than 2014 but in line with our historical trends.
The reason for this year-on-year decline is that 2015 will not benefit from the 2 factors that helped 2014: number one the cash tax benefit related to our refinancing; and again number two the timing of various working capital items in particular the reduction in accounts receivable DSO.
As always this guidance range captures the majority of probabilistic outcomes but we could be above or below this range.
Finally some comments on capital deployment.
Even after making the $400 million government payment last week we have a very strong cash balance today.
We are in the fortunate position of having various opportunities where we may be able to deploy our capital in each of our business lines.
We are constantly reviewing our capital allocation to make sure that we sustain the long-term health of the organization and achieve appropriate aftertax cash returns on capital.
To put our historical practices in context in the 5-year period prior to the HealthCare Partners transaction we allocated 40% of our capital to acquisitions 23% to internal development 26% to share repurchases and 11% to debt repayments.
We favor a situational approach to capital deployment and will continue to review our options.
And with that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q and A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brian Zimmerman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is around 2015 guidance.
And just hoping to get a bit more color on what sort of assumptions you're making in heading into next year.
And just especially if you look at that dialysis side guiding down year-over-year.
Just curious to get a bit more insight into what's behind that number.
I don't know that we have much to add because it really is driven by the stuff we mentioned the absence of a Medicare increase for the second consecutive year.
We did an awful lot of expense squeezing in the face of the first flat year and can't do that again with the same kind of return and then just what's happening on the commercial pay side and some of that dynamics there.
Those are the big issues.
Those are the drivers.
It's not a lot more complicated than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you remind us what percentage of your commercial volumes are -- what percentage is commercial volumes on the dialysis side? About 10%.
Research Division</strong> About 10%.
And then you mentioned some on the issues on the HCP side.
And since taking over leadership you've identified some areas you want to address.
Could you give us a bit more on just sort of what you mean by fixing problem spots and pursuing selected growth? Sure.
In the case of fixing problem spots I'm referring to the 2 deals that were done right after the close by some of the prior executives that didn't work out well.
And we've in fact made strong progress in the last 5 months on each of those.
And we referred to that in our last call where we said we're going to be -- we're still confident that we're highly likely to be more than $25 million better in '15 versus '14.
I should say $25 million more or better but $25 million is probably the best number to remember.
So that's the fixing problem spots I was referring to and that's going quite well.
On the selective growth I think the 2 best examples to make that more tangible are the deals that we've talked about this week which is one the purchase of a leading physician group in a substantial American metro area.
And second a health system joint venture where we still have to sort through all the terms of the definitive but we're -- both sides are very committed to driving it to closure and moving forward.
So those are 2 examples of selective growth.
Am I answering the right question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'm just curious to get a bit more detail behind that -- those initiatives.
And our next question comes from Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to follow up on the question on dialysis and maybe come at it from just a different angle in terms of 2015 outlook.
Kent over the last few years your actual dialysis results have been significantly better than what you've guided to initially.
I'm just curious if you could look back at the actual versus expectations and give us any color around what those upside drivers were if there's any consistency there.
A fair question.
I don't know that I can spontaneously do a good job of going back 2 or 3 years but let's play with it for a moment and see if we can add some value.
I know in these past 12 months the concerns we had about exchanges turned out to be much greater than the reality.
And so that was one very big dynamic and one very big variance.
I'm trying to go back to the prior year and I'm just not sure on that one Justin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in the -- I guess you're saying that -- and I think payer mix and just private pay whether it's mix issues or reimbursement pressure in general seems to have been -- in addition to whatever rate pressure you're facing on Medicare has been something that the company has faced and obviously done a good job over time.
And we'll see if you -- we'll see how we go for 2015.
I guess my question is when you look at those if we just direct it at the commercial pay side that's been an area of potential pressure and ended up being better than expected or less significant than expected if we're going to use those words.
Then is there any reason for us to believe -- is there a higher level of conviction that this time it's going to be different versus the last 2 or 3 years where it's been less meaningful than you thought? Or do you feel like this is just the typical level of prudent posture going into a new year? Yes very fair question.
Maybe let me use an analogy.
If you win the first 2 games of the World Series and you're about to start game 3 and you're up against a superb team that made it all the way to World Series you don't look at the rearview mirror and say "Well we won the first 2 and therefore it's 80% probable we're going to win game 3." You say "Against a tough competitor you win some you lose some but you don't win them all." And I think we have to look at our never-ending battle if you want to call it that with private payers to say that "Yes we've been able to hold the line " in part because our entire industry needs to subsidize the government and so it's a common plight.
But whatever the reason we've had a couple of good years.
We just think it would be inappropriate to therefore by -- based on that rearview mirror pretty view get overly confident about next year.
Separate from that metaphor which I think is important but beyond that it is also just a case that there's a lot going on in the commercial sector and many of you are more facile in discussing it than me.
But it's -- and players are getting more and more creative with what they're doing on benefit design.
They're getting much more open to doing different things with exchanges and narrow networks just being one example.
And so when 10% of your patients drive whatever 115% of your profitability I'm not going to get the exact number right but the subsidization of the Medicare program is substantial from the private sector that you've got to pay a lot of attention because relatively small changes can wreak a lot of havoc in your year-over-year momentum.
And so I would posit and we would posit that the world is different in '15 versus what it was in '14.
And if you had to say does it lean different harder or easier? You would lean harder.
And in particular for us because the way it could show up is that not we lose rate it's that we lose share to other people who are willing to cut rates.
And that's something that we can't control.
Our next question comes from Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Garry maybe could you give us a little bit more color on the reduction in the DSOs? Is that just a timing thing? Or was there one specific payer or something that's going on? It isn't one specific thing Gary.
It's just a trend that we've had over the last 18 months or so but it's not something that we expect to continue.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is it around a specific item or a specific dynamic? Or is it just a whole bunch of different things? Gary this is Jim Hilger.
It is a number of different things.
It's improved collection processes and results.
We've also had high write-offs.
You can see our Medicare bad debt expense percentage was increased in the quarter.
But we feel very good about the quality of our AR.
But in aggregate all of these things are driving our DSO down.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Wouldn't collection -- more proficiency with collections wouldn't that carry forward though? Yes.
But the structural impediments to improving DSO from 50 days are quite large when you look at the fact that our biggest payer Medicare pays us about 22 days after the end of the month.
So when you factor that into the math it's going to be very hard to significantly lower DSO from here.
But it doesn't mean that we can't try but it will be hard to do big strides.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then Kent the other large national dialysis provider said they'd begin doing tests with Mircera in the U.S.
this quarter.
Do you guys have any plans to do that? Not right now but we're very open-minded on the topic.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then assuming that that drug is available in the U.S.
at some point in 2015 have you baked that into the guidance at all? Well I'd say that we bake everything into our guidance.
And trying to predict -- and especially the history in this arena trying to predict when something in fact is going to be introduced and how it's going to be introduced and how it will be priced and how penetration will evolve is really hard.
So I don't think we presumed anything particularly bullish or world-changing in that regard.
However we do think the fact that competition is highly likely in the near and intermediate term is a good thing for everybody.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess even as you go into 2016 the potential for perhaps 3 competitors on the market for the drug have you taken that into account when you're thinking about 2016? Yes.
We've taken it into account.
But again while we're not sharing our different probabilistic scenarios and the math associated with the each because obviously there's a range of outcomes and all the variables I cited before that we are hopeful for a meaningful change.
But within the time frame of 1 year or 15 18 months we're not presuming that life is fundamentally altered in a dramatic way.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean maybe just to go down that route a little bit more.
I mean if in 2016 there were 3 drugs available and you -- isn't it conceivable you could see a 20% decrease to price on costs that's over $1 billion for you? Well we do think that new entrants are going to have to offer lower prices to get penetration just period.
There's no 2 ways around it and it's going to have to be significant.
We also think strategically that Amgen is going to want to stay competitive as they have in other countries around the world in similar situations.
And so that all directionally is very good news.
And at the same time we just want to remind people that if the entire community realizes certain benefits from cost reduction that ultimately that will appropriately be reflected in Medicare reimbursement.
Now since we're at a deficit we still should come out ahead because part of what Medicare hopefully will do is start to reduce the deficit.
But the notion that they would let anything along the lines of what you mentioned just flow through permanently I think that's unlikely.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe could we get an update on the Tandigm partnership and how that's doing? It's doing fine but it's so early that it doesn't mean so much.
We've got a wonderful response from the physicians in the community.
We're in high-quality conversations with a bunch of the hospitals.
IBC and us and Tandigm are working very well together but it's a little bit like the preseason.
The real tackling doesn't start until January 1 so we don't want to get too excited about winning some of the preseason games.
And our next question comes from Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Joanna Gajuk filling in for Kevin today.
Just question -- follow-up on the comment around 2015 guidance again.
I guess just specifically the comments around the loss from I guess new deals.
So are you including additional transactions on top of what you just recently did? And I guess in relation to that can you comment on your comments from prior calls around trying to enter 2 3 new markets next year and more after that? So is that what you sort of bake into your outlook when you talk about '15 and then I guess '16 as well? We would be disappointed if we didn't do on the HealthCare Partners side 2 good new deals next year.
And by saying new that probably means in new markets as opposed to an additional one an existing market.
Anything done on those places will probably be less material.
And then we're presuming that one or both of them could be of a similar structure to the ones we're doing now where we are launching a substantial population health management initiative.
And therefore in the beginning you've got operating losses just like when we build a de novo on the dialysis side.
So that's how we think those 2016 losses will emerge.
Research Division</strong> And then on again on HCP.
I guess on the quarter that you just reported the G&amp;A costs of I guess $86 million versus $77 million in Q2 and I guess as a percentage of revenues also increased.
So any comment on that? Yes it's Garry.
First of all on the margin you have to remember it varies by quarter because of a number of different factors: seasonality there are nonrecurring items in there there are government true-ups.
And so I will point out though that across the year we have maintained consistent cost trends.
And our next question comes from Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So I did want to just come back to part of what you were asked before about the investment that you're making in some of these activities.
And I guess I was just hoping if you could bucket them a little bit better for us for 2015 just so we can maybe isolate some of the underlying trends in both segments.
So just taking them apart.
In international can you give us some flavor for how you're thinking about the investment there? And duals I know that that's something that you'll be ramping up your lives in California I think.
So is that an investment? Is that a positive? And then to the extent that JVs in other new markets that you've just announced here with HCP require investment what does that look like? Yes.
Fair question Darren.
And maybe we'll lay out more math next time.
I don't think I'm well prepared to do that right now.
But I would say international in '15 will be comparable to '14 with the ramp-up in Saudi and the rest of our growth so that'll be comparable.
And then duals I wish we could tell you exactly what that number is going to be but we've got to watch that population very carefully and we'll keep you posted.
But right now it wouldn't be right to speculate.
And then on the joint venture side given they're so young it's really hard for us to go very far in a satisfactory way because there's so many variables and we just don't know.
We can feel good about where it's going to be 2 years from now 3 years from now 4 years from now.
But the notion that we can predict operating losses in months 1 through 15 that would be -- while we have our pro formas that we're managing against there's a pretty significant range of possible outcomes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So well I guess the follow-up then is just when we think about maybe how you've communicated around Tandigm and I think there have been some numbers floating around.
But the sizing of that so 50 000-or-so lives in that type of JV versus what we're reading about today Centura 1.2 million lives over time.
Obviously a very different type of situation.
But just trying to understand a little bit more about how some of the investments flows might be related to these different types of JVs so we can at least just frame that in the model from a new market perspective.
Yes.
I think we have to get better at working with you on that Darren you and your peers.
And I will not make any great progress in that area on this call today.
And then on the Centura we cherish our partner's optimism and they have far more experience in this market than we do.
Nonetheless our pro forma does not have 1.2 million lives in year 5 and so we would hate to have you bake that in.
But we sure as heck hope they're smarter than we are.
Research Division</strong> All right last thing for me.
Just you brought up 2016 you're obviously cautioning us.
I guess what is it about 2016? If you could maybe list 1 or 2 things that keep you up the most and that we ought to be rethinking about in our models? Okay.
I'll be redundant and then we can go back and forth and see if we add some incremental value.
Game 1 is just Medicare on both sides of the house.
What are they going to do with rates? And in some cases what are they going to do with certain architectural rules and regs that equate to significant math? But it's Medicare and it's rates.
And then second is this commercial side just given how darn leveraged it is.
And when there's so many things going on in that space it's just a little nerve-wracking for us particularly when it could come down to us as I mentioned before losing share out of our control because we can't run around offering discounts.
Your next question comes from Vijay Malik with Everest.
I just wanted to circle back on capital allocation which you discussed earlier.
Specifically you mentioned prior to the HCP acquisition 26% of your free cash flow was used for repurchases.
About 6 months ago on the call I highlighted at the end of the year you might have $2 billion of cash in the balance sheet.
And the question of capital allocation what to do with that cash is becoming increasingly important every quarter.
Could you talk a little bit about how you evaluate share repurchases? Obvious relative to other opportunities you see out there but it's hard to believe that a company trading x cash at 10x free cash flow might not be -- your best investment opportunity is just repurchasing stock.
So thank you.
It's Garry.
First of all I do want to point out we won't have $2 billion in cash at the end of the year.
So I'll highlight that.
Secondly I think it's important as you listen to the call that whenever you enter into a period of uncertainty which we are flagging today that you do owe it to the shareholders to ensure that you maintain a strong cash reserve to go through that period of uncertainty.
So that's certainly informing our thinking.
And then beyond that we look at all of the opportunities that we have in front of us both for internal development both for acquisition growth and then as you point out share repurchases or debt paydowns.
And we take a very situational approach with each one of those to determine what is the appropriate option for us to follow.
I don't think we can disclose much beyond that other than to let you know that this is something that we do month-by-month intensely study.
And the only thing I'll add to that is when we talk about times of uncertainty mean logically that you should hold more cash -- very simplistic obviously -- that's not just for defensive reasons.
It's also in times of uncertainty that there's a way-above-average probability of offensive opportunities popping up.
And so we're equally defense- and offensive-minded as we stare at that decision.
Understandable.
When I see the cash on the balance sheet and I don't see share repurchases it makes me excited about the opportunities you must be evaluating.
I obviously think very highly of the management team.
And frankly I think it's an asset that Wall Street might be missing.
We hope you are right and we will do our best to make you right.
Please don't put anything in your model.
There's no model.
It's in my head.
Your next question comes from -- I'm sorry the next question comes from Gary Taylor with Citi.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One I just want to go back to EPO unit cost for a minute.
Everyone knows you have the exclusive contract with Amgen through 2017.
It seems obvious there's no EPO unit price reduction in the Kidney operating income guidance that it could be flat 2 years in a row.
So I guess to get to it what is the scenario that you can benefit from EPO unit price declines before the Amgen contract expires? There's some elements of the contract that we're not allowed to disclose.
What is publicly known is that we have the right to buy 10% elsewhere and what is known in the sense of sort of common sense and business wisdom is that they are going to want to remain competitive.
And in a contract in either direction if one party takes excessive advantage of a short-term provision that typically has really fundamental implications for the long-term relationship.
And so the contract has certain things that we like and certain things that they like and separate from that we have a long-standing business relationship.
And in general it's our expectation that they'll remain competitive.
Do you want to -- I don't know that I can shed any more light on it than that.
Do you want to come back at it again? Research Division</strong> No.
I won't.
I mean it sounds like you to hope to renegotiate by I won't put words in your mouth.
And I don't know if you want to respond to that or not probably not.
No.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> If not I will -- my next question just going into the commercial rates.
A couple of questions.
So it's November 6 today when do you -- when are 2015 commercial rates finalized? Don't you have pretty significant visibility as we stand today? No.
The way it works is we're negotiating contracts all year long every week every month every year.
And lots of times a contract expires and people just extend it because the negotiations go on another month to 12 months.
A lot of times there's notice provisions and so they automatically renew for a certain period of time but it's not another year.
We have agreements that end every month of the year even if they're 1-year contracts.
So the practical reality is that we are negotiating with payers all the time.
And often it goes months past the technical expiration of the prior contract and we just -- everything is just held in the steady-state while the to-ing and fro-ing is going on.
So there's never really a time when you say "Okay we've now sort of nailed down what's happening next year." I bet it's only a tiny fraction of our contracts that even have a January 1 effective date or renewal date.
Research Division</strong> And my one follow-on on that will just be it sounds like you're suggesting competitors willing to discount rates.
I guess kind of our view of the construct of the industry is that you might have 1/3 national market share but your local market shares are actually often significantly higher than that and generally the industry operates at pretty high capacity utilization.
So the opportunity for discounters to move share would suggest perhaps there's some significant capacity adds in the industry although maybe that just means being open on Saturday and Sunday.
But are you suggesting that you're seeing capacity adds and that's going to create this opportunity for competitors to provide the service at a lower rate? Or is there something else? The short answer to the question you asked is no.
We're not positing any immense capacity adds.
Having said that incremental capacity is quite straightforward to add because you add a third shift or you add a Tuesday Thursday Saturday to your Monday Wednesday Friday.
But more often it's adding a shift or in some cases adding another station or 2 to an existing shift.
So there's a lot of capacity that can be added quickly at relatively low cost.
But that's actually not the #1 issue.
The #1 issue is when private pay is only 10% of your patients it doesn't take very many bodies to be moved to someone discounting before you materially affect your year-over-year contribution but don't put any serious incremental burden of capacity on the system.
The next will come from Lisa Clive with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Just another on the private rates on the dialysis side.
A year ago you had mentioned your frustration that a competitor was apparently giving a bit more in price.
It sounded like it was around one particularly large contract.
And when we last got a comment on this I think your words were something along the lines that both sides were particularly unhappy and it sounded like you'd sort of stuck to the status quo.
Can you just give us an update on that particular situation? And is that perhaps part of your seemingly more downbeat view on commercial pricing for 2015? And then a second question on private rates actually not commercial rates but Medicare Advantage.
You talk a lot about MA in your HealthCare Partners business.
But as MA overall has increased as a proportion of all seniors I would imagine this should have some potentially positive mix effect for the dialysis business.
Could just perhaps talk about MA patient count? How that's changed? And whether that does in fact have a bit of a margin benefit? Let me answer the second one first and I mean I'll probably ask you to ask the first one again because it had sort of 2 parts to it.
I want to make sure I don't ramble here or at least reduce the probability.
But on MA MA growth is good for HealthCare Partners and it's good for Kidney Care.
We love it in Kidney Care because those customers talking about MA plans as customers care about total costs and we're really good at that.
And so -- both from an immediate margin point of view and from a value-added point of view and therefore that informs future rates.
We really do like MA growth in the ESRD population.
That answered your second question correct? LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then -- go ahead.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was just -- actually one second -- maybe a second add-on to that second question is you mentioned the -- MA's focus on total costs.
Could you also just provide a comment on Fresenius' recent agreement with Aetna on their MA patients? And is that something that you could see moving forward with with any major commercial players? We don't know all the details of what they did with Aetna.
We know some stuff and we certainly believe in integrated care and pay-for-performance.
And so we're in those sorts of conversations as well and we would expect FMC to be continuing to do that sort of stuff.
And the good news in it is more and more payers are interested and willing to spend the time in actually going through all the hours of discussion and negotiation that are required.
A few years ago Kidney Care just wasn't high enough on the radar screen to get the attention to actually do more sophisticated contracts where everybody can win.
So that's the community-wide good news inherent in announcements like that.
And beyond that I would just have to guess that we're both doing similar things.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And yes my first question it's really -- I guess a way of rephrasing it is you seem a bit more downbeat on commercial pricing.
Clearly exchanges are one part of that.
But I remember you very specifically had mentioned a year ago that there was one major contract where it sounded like your big competitor had taken a bit of a rate cut.
And you had resolved that issue by sort of sticking with the status quo.
And I'm wondering whether you've had to shift away from that status quo and that's one of the reasons why you're potentially a bit more negative in the commercial outlook for the next 12 months.
Yes.
We did have a situation as we talked about and had an obligation to inform you of where we had serious concerns about a competitor offering serious volume-related discounts and that would affect industry structure in the way that shareholders would need to know about it.
So that did happen.
And then second and totally separate we've maintained pricing discipline rate discipline.
And we're willing to give up market share in order to do that because it's very difficult to see a path where we're able to continue to innovate and drive the transformative parts of what we're about in terms of reducing total costs.
We just can't do that without some margin.
At this time I show no further questions.
Okay.
Well thanks very much.
I mean I will add I guess one other point that -- because it's related to what we were just talking about with Lisa.
That it is our patients are uniquely discriminated against.
American dialysis patients are uniquely discriminated against in 2 ways that if their kidney has already failed they cannot join an MA plan which is an absolute terrible policy because it robs them of extra services that improve health and save the system money.
So it's an artifact but a legitimate concern from 25 years ago that doesn't apply anymore and we really hope it gets changed.
And secondarily our patients are uniquely discriminated against in that they no matter how many years they pay private insurance premiums because they wanted insurance in case they got quite sick they're kicked off of it after 30 months.
A situation that no other American faces.
And so those are 2 policy areas where we do hope for change.
And thanks everyone for your kind consideration and we'll do our best for you between now and the next earnings call.
Thank you.
Thank you and this concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kim and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the DaVita HealthCare Partners Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you Mr.
Gustafson you may begin your conference.
Thank you Kim and welcome everyone to our fourth quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations.
And with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Garry Menzel our CFO; Jim Hilger our Chief Accounting Officer; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Okay.
Thank you Jim and greetings to all.
Thank you for your interest in our enterprise.
In the fourth quarter we had solid results all sides of the house.
Kidney Care OI $419 million but that includes the net $29 million benefit from recognizing the deferred Medi-Cal revenues so $390 million without that.
And HCP OI $33 million both results within our previously provided guidance ranges.
We'll cover clinical outcomes first as we do every call.
We are first and foremost a caregiving company.
CMS issued final QIP results on the Kidney Care side of the house recently.
Once again we led industry.
Only 1.5% of our clinics had a 2015 penalty versus the overall industry's 5.6%.
In other words 73% more.
This means we've outperformed the rest of the industry each year since that program began 4 years ago and in fact remained first in 3 of 4 QIP categories this time.
We also are leading the industry in 2015 Star rating results with over 50% of DaVita facilities receiving a Star rating of 4 or 5 versus 21% of the rest of the industry.
So we're very proud of these results.
And while no particular clinical metric by itself or system by itself is perfect in aggregate this is indisputably a strong performance for our patients and for the system.
And we hope CMS continues to report clinical metrics and we'll work on them to do so -- and work with them to do so.
On the HealthCare Partners side similarly strong news.
Over 800 000 patients now for whom we take comprehensive care.
If we just grab Nevada 1 of our 3 largest markets and look at cancer screening and diabetes.
We have 4 or 5 Star across all of our Medicare Advantage patients including some other factoid 70% of our patients receiving colorectal cancer screenings compared to a national average of 65% and 63% of our diabetic patients with cholesterol scores below 100.
Both of those are 5 Star scores and that's compared also to a 55% national average.
So for the clinical outcomes throughout the enterprise very strong.
We take it very seriously.
And in all these cases healthier patients leads to savings to America's taxpayers hopefully a value-add that we can increasingly monetize for you.
Let's talk a little bit about HCP operating performance now and expected and Garry will talk a little bit more about Kidney Care.
HCP $33 million NOI right in the middle of the guidance for the quarter.
But let's hit the bad news right up front and that is that CMS may make multiple changes to Medicare Advantage reimbursement.
And in aggregate this could mean that HealthCare Partners 2016 NOI could be below and even well below 2015 so unambiguous potential bad news on that side.
We incorrectly handicapped the Medicare Advantage reimbursement cuts last year and I apologize that -- for that.
I got it wrong.
This actually is becoming a strategic issue for Medicare Advantage in our minds that it is crucial for CMS to protect the incentive to innovate to create health where now there is sickness and reduce risk where it is high for these patients and we hope they realize that in their near-term decision-making.
Now let's switch to the good news front and here I'll make 4 significant points.
One has already been referred to the strong clinical outcomes.
Two in our legacy markets MA enrollment was up 7% year-over-year meaning January '15 over January '14 excluding acquisitions.
And if you include in-market acquisitions it goes up to 10%.
So that's fact #2.
Fact #3 in Albuquerque New Mexico MA enrollment a year ago was 2 500.
It's now about 11 000.
And fee-for-service visits per provider are up 20% from last year's low point.
And then fact #4 on the positive side of the ledger.
We told you 18 months ago that we were going to be exploring 4 different segments: growth through IPAs growth through payer partners growth through health system partners and growth through acquiring prominent medical groups.
We did the Phoenix IPA back right around that time and since that time we've done a significant payer partnership a significant health system partnership and a significant acquisition of a prominent medical group.
On the payer's side Tandigm was a 50/50 JV with Independence Blue Cross in Philadelphia the largest health plan in that region now over 275 PCPs signed up another 75 joining within about a month.
We currently are taking care of 16 000 Medicare Advantage patients; 53 000 commercial patients about $400 million in annualized revenue being managed in that partnership.
The next segment health systems.
We've got a 50/50 JV with Centura partnering in Colorado.
And there it's a very substantial number of doctors.
They alone have about 340 employed physicians a mix of PCPs and specialists as well as a broader network.
That's Centura the largest health system in the State of Colorado.
And then the last segment leading medical groups.
As many of you recall we did acquire a leading group in Colorado Springs Colorado Springs Health Partners with 51 PCPs.
So the message here is that 18 months ago 20 months ago we said that we're going to explore growth models in each of those 4 segments.
Now 18 to 20 months later we are doing just that with a strong entry in each one of those segments in order to explore the most capital-efficient risk-adjusted optimal ways of growing as the years go by.
We continue to be very modest in our business development investment although it is growing incrementally.
Having said that however the activities are quite robust.
In particular we're in discussions with several major health systems and in particular in Southern California in some very interesting discussions with a few different health systems and we look forward to deciding which ones to actually drive to closure and may do some very interesting things.
And that's separate from health systems.
We're also talking to several high-quality medical groups in a serious way.
No one ever knows what's going to happen with the business pipeline but the quality and quantity of the conversations we're having is better than ever before.
Our business development capabilities as I said is still quite modest.
And hopefully over the next year or so that will change.
Although right now we couldn't deal with any more effective business development since we're pretty much at capacity.
With respect to overall guidance it is $1.75 billion to $1.9 billion which is relatively flat.
It's made up of Kidney Care operating income.
$1.525 billion to $1.625 billion; and HCP Operating income $225 million to $275 million.
I would like to reiterate the comments I made last earnings call and that is we face 2 serious headwinds right now for the enterprise.
Medicare reimbursement on both sides of the house under a lot of pressure in different forms.
And on the Kidney Care side a tough commercial pay environment as you look out over the next few years.
Not so much because of any change in negotiating dynamics or leverage but because of architectural changes in the way the healthcare system is working.
When you put all that together as we said the last earnings call there is real risk that 2016 OI could be down from 2015 at the enterprise level.
Now even in a scenario where OI is flat if we just take that premise for a moment if you look out over the next 2 years between our current cash balance and our free cash flow and then you take out maintenance CapEx still assume very robust dialysis de novos and we make our mandatory debt payments.
So after doing those 3 things business as usual we will still have $2.4 billion in cash to deploy in whatever way we thought was best for you and for the long-term strategic value of the enterprise.
So acquisitions buybacks et cetera.
We very much look forward to discussing our longer-term strategic positioning and our outlook at our Capital Markets Day in New York City on May 5 in conjunction with our Q1 earnings call.
More details will come out soon and we hope to see many of you there and satisfactorily answer all your questions.
Garry our CFO please take over.
Thanks KT.
Starting with Kidney Care.
Non-acquired dialysis treatment growth in the quarter was 4.6% when normalized for days of the week.
Kidney Care operating profitability was up $11 million sequentially primarily as a result of 2 factors: first the $29 million net favorable impact resulting from the revenue recognition of certain Medi-Cal payments received in prior periods; and second an unfavorable impact from a $3-per-treatment increase in dialysis and lab segment G&amp;A which was caused by normal seasonal increases in G&amp;A spending at the end of the year and intentional nonrecurring project investment in IT during the quarter.
It is worth noting that despite the higher G&amp;A spend in the quarter G&amp;A per treatment was down nearly 9% in 2014 compared to the year before.
International losses were $16 million for the quarter and $42 million for the year in line with prior guidance.
We continue to expect international losses in 2015 to be similar to those in 2014.
For the overall enterprise our debt expense was $98 million in the fourth quarter.
Our income attributable to noncontrolling interests of $42 million was approximately $5 million higher than our normalized run rate due to recognition of the Medi-Cal deferred revenue I discussed earlier.
Next the effective tax rate attributable to DaVita HealthCare Partners of 33.3% in the quarter was lower due to: one a reduction in our tax reserves; and two the incorporation of federal and state tax credits that were retroactively enacted by Congress in December 2014.
We expect the full year tax rate for 2015 to be in the range of 39.5% to 40.5%.
I would also like to provide a few reminders as you model the normal seasonality for the first quarter of 2015 in our business.
In Kidney Care first Q1 2015 contains 3 fewer treatment days than this past quarter.
So you should expect lower revenue and higher fixed costs per treatment.
Second our payroll tax cuts reset at the beginning of the year which leads to higher costs of $1 to $1.50 per treatment.
And third Q1 will not benefit from the Medi-Cal revenue that was recognized in the fourth quarter.
At HCP operating income fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter due to the seasonal needs of patients and Q1 operating income tends to be a bit lighter than the full year average.
Also the severity of a flu season can have a material impact on medical costs.
We are seeing higher utilization right now with the flu vaccine being only 23% effective according to the CDC.
However it is still too early to know how the flu season will play out but we estimate that it impacted our operating income by $2 million to $4 million in Q4 2014 versus the comparable period in 2013.
Turning to cash flow.
We continue to generate strong cash flows as operating cash flow was $199 million in the fourth quarter and $1.728 billion for 2014 excluding the after-tax impact of payments made in connection with the previously announced settlement with the government.
This was within our guidance range.
We expect 2015 operating cash flow to be between $1.5 billion and $1.7 billion lower than 2014 but in line with our historical trends.
As always this guidance range captures a majority of probabilistic outcomes but we could be above or below this range.
Finally some comments on capital deployment.
We continue to have a very strong cash balance.
We are in the fortunate position of having various opportunities where we could deploy our capital in each of our business lines.
We are constantly reviewing our capital allocation to make sure that we sustain the long-term health of the organization and achieve appropriate after-tax cash returns on capital.
We did not do any share repurchases in the fourth quarter nor have we done any to this point in 2015.
We felt that it was prudent to wait until after next week's announcement about Medicare Advantage rates before making any large capital deployment decisions.
As we have said before we favor a situational approach to capital deployment and we'll continue to review our options.
And with that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Justin Lake with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess we'll start with Medicare Advantage.
Kent you discussed the fact that OI could be down at HCP next year despite what seems like a robust Medicare Advantage membership growth environment.
I'm just trying to understand what kind of rate would it take for OI to be down next year as kind of we think about next week's rate release for HCP? And then can you give us an update on where you are with the contracting initiatives to get plans to give you some offset here on the benefit side? Justin on the rate front I'm afraid there's not a simple answer because there's so many variables that they're playing with now.
They're playing with coding intensity they're playing with the benchmark rate they're playing with the RAF coding which we're particularly sensitive to because we have above-average RAF.
They're playing with the Star system.
And so there's 4 5 6 different levers that they are thinking about pulling.
And of course the economics are a result of that net number at the end.
And so there's no magic sort of single line to draw and correlate it to 2016 outcomes.
On the contracting front we should have a better answer for you than we do.
I know that we have picked up some significant incremental protection through the course of the year but I can't translate it into sort of a percentage of the book of business or something like that.
So why don't we just pledge Garry to have that for the next time around.
I think it's been solid progress qualitatively much better than where we were a year ago but not close to done yet.
For example -- and Justin just for example the kind of thing so one that we signed recently for example any benefit design changes we and the plan basically spit them 50/50 up or down.
The cost or the benefit of doing them is shared and so we're aligned in terms of our microeconomic incentives.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just maybe a -- a way to follow-up on the rate side before I ask my other question is the -- I know there are a lot of moving parts as you said but they're all going to net out to something.
So I'm not asking for a -- to be clear I'm not asking for a -- all 6 components Kent.
I'm just thinking about a range.
Are you saying like -- can you say if the ultimate outcome is you have it all together and it's minus 5% that's what's going to drive OI -- that kind of rate would drive OI negative? Or is it minus high-single digits like you had in 2014? The 7% to 9% I think you said.
Just trying to put a ballpark around when we see this rate how should we think about it for the data? Okay.
Very fair question to which we do not have a very fair answer.
So why don't we take that under advisement.
We've got Capital Markets in a couple of months.
And by that time we'll know what they've done across all those things and maybe going forward we should always calculate that number.
But I'm afraid right now spontaneously cannot do that justice.
I mean obviously our forecast is a product of a bottoms-up set of a mix of assumptions on every single one of those variables but we don't have the magic sort of index number that you're talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My other was question was on the commercial mix.
I'm just trying to get an idea can you give us an update on where your commercial mix has trended through the year and kind of come out of 2014? Yes.
It's with some little ups and downs.
It's basically been flat for 3 years or so now which is much better than what happened to it a couple of years before then.
And we have hopes that if the economy continues to recover that it will go up.
But there's so much noise in the system now compared to before with exchanges and narrow networks and everything else that it's not as sort of linear a relationship as it used to be.
But the answer to the narrow question you asked is it's been more or less flat for 12 quarters in a row.
Research Division</strong> And so these impacts as we've gone in -- we're 1.5 months into the quarter now I assume you're seeing some further changes from narrow networks and such.
Is there anything that you've seen over the last 3 months let's say including mid-February that would give you any increase in line of sight versus where you were when you gave the guidance in terms of mix deterioration that seem to be embedded in your guidance? Yes I hear you.
Good question.
The short answer is no.
There's been no material development.
We continue to get our normal commercial rates on the exchanges but we worry about competitors being willing to discount for exchanges at which point we would suffer from a reduction in our incremental growth rate.
And I could go kind of down a checklist.
But the answer to your question is that if you think about the 5 or 6 or 7 variables that affect mix and rate there have been no material developments that represent any kind of discontinuity from before.
Is that responsive? Research Division</strong> That's absolutely responsive.
Our next question comes from Kevin Fischbeck with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just really a follow up on that question there.
I think the company is well known for outlining all the risks that are out there that appear reasonable but often times you guys highlight things that don't actually come to happen which is great to be aware of them.
But at the same time -- just trying to really get to the point here of is there something specifically that you're seeing? Have you seen -- because it really takes 2 to tango in this case of someone has to accept the lower rate some player has to be of the view that the business model that has historically served everyone is now upside down and now it makes sense to change it.
And have you actually seen that happen in at least small instances that make you think that there's a bigger risk here? Or is this just hey it's a risk because we're seeing hospitals do it but we haven't really seen any indication that's happening at all yet? Fair.
I think the answer's a little bit in between.
Have we seen any clear irrefutable evidence? No.
Are there rumors of 1 or 2 of some consequence? Yes.
So it's a bit of a tweener.
But no we cannot point to anything that we know of that would represent -- well that's the answer to the question.
Research Division</strong> I guess that's fair because we do not know how the competitors are necessarily priced.
But do you feel like you're getting a lot more pressure from the managed care side? Is that there [ph] -- you have changed dramatically and you're doing all you can to hold the line or has that not really even changed much? That's always been a pretty unvarnished fistfight and that continues.
If anything to some extent in some cases the conversations are less adversarial because we're bringing so much of their value to the table now with reducing hospitalization reducing mortality and everything else that we're doing on the quality side.
So you'd almost push it the other way.
But then when you stare at the emergence of narrow networks the emergence of ACOs the emergence of exchanges you look at all that stuff going on you get -- you have to respect the fact that the architecture of the building is different.
And to presume the same sort of outcome is just not prudent.
But we are absolutely sticking to our commercial rates for exchange business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the data you gave about Albuquerque I think you said 2 500 members going to 11 000.
What was ABQ at when you bought them? 0.
I mean they may have had some -- they certainly had some had Medicare fee-for-service [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Well I guess I'm just trying to think I guess where are we as far as them rebuilding the book of business or the revenue base? I guess you're right it was more like fee-for-service even within the capitation.
But where are you in rebuilding the revenue base that they had when you first bought them? Are we back to where they were? Or not there yet? How do you think about that? Why don't we check and get back to you within 10 15 minutes on this call Kevin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to clarify something you said about the growth in the legacy markets being up 7% year-over-year.
Do you characterize legacy being Southern California Nevada and Florida? Or do you -- now that you've had New Mexico and Arizona are they legacy now? Yes.
Good point.
Legacy is those 3 and then you sort of have Phase I of new which were those 2 that were done right on the time of the deal that had fairly tempestuous beginnings in Phoenix and Albuquerque and then Phase II new which is the 3 that I referred to.
So that's -- just from a terminology point of view that's what we're talking about and so the growth rate was in those 3.
And let me go back for a second and just be clear on something that ABQ had some MA patients but was just treating them on a fee-for-service basis.
We're now treating the 11 000 on a partial-risk basis.
And then at some point in the future we'll move to full risk as soon as our payer partner is ready.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this is my last question.
Obviously you've gone through ABQ in kind of the fix there.
Can you talk a little bit about Arizona? What went wrong and where we are in the progress of fixing that? All right.
Say your question again Kevin.
Research Division</strong> I guess -- historically talked about obviously New Mexico not going well.
We've kind of covered a lot of what you've done there to fix that.
I guess it sounds like Arizona has not gone as planned either.
Can you just talk a little bit about what happened there and where we are in the progress of returning that to normalized profitability? Yes.
Well let me first just comment.
In aggregate we delivered what we said we would I don't know 6 7 months ago in that year-over-year there will be an improvement exceeding $25 million.
So that's the aggregate net economic result as we committed to you.
It would be -- and then specifically in Arizona we worked out an arrangement whereby a couple unprofitable plan populations got pruned in a very significant way reduced by about 65% 70% of lives which eliminated a huge amount of losses for us.
Our next question comes from Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I guess Kent starting off with the subpoenas that were announced after the close.
Can you give us some more information? It kind of really sounds like this might be about something else.
Do you have any color for us? I can't really say anything other than our release said.
It's literally all we know.
So that's -- if I could read it to you which of course would be terribly redundant but we don't know anything else.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
See last fall I think it was November Medicare held an ambulance open-door forum and dialysis patient transportation billing and coding was actually brought up on the call.
I think there was confusion about the coding.
So I'm wondering if they're trying to get information from you guys about that.
Yes.
There certainly was a lot of noise around transportation in general and then including in the dialysis space.
We've had very clear policies for our people on that front for a long time and do a very thorough job of reinforcing them all the time and so we feel very good about that.
And as you know we don't do the transportation.
We don't bill for the transportation not our transportation.
So what you're saying is all true.
Nonetheless we only know what we know and we'll have to keep you posted as things unfold.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay.
Great.
And then can you give us some updated thoughts on Medicare's continual shift to be value-based reimbursement models and how you're positioned? And kind of on top of that we've seen you do a few deals over the last several months.
You mentioned some on the call but also the Camden Group acquired a small consulting business as well and wondering kind of what your view is in participating in the -- in Medicare's bundled payment for care improvement initiative and whether you think it has legs or not.
Yes.
We don't have any particular perspective on that program.
So I won't waste your time with just saying some superficial pablum.
Our Camden Group which is for those of you who don't know is a consulting firm it does superb work.
They have a number of clients who are participating in the program.
And so we're watching and we'll continue to watch but we're not at this point doing anything dramatic in that sphere.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then going back to some of Garry's comments.
I think you mentioned you saw a $3 per treatment increase.
I guess how much of that's recurring? And then can you just recap again the $29 million Medi-Cal prior period increase? Where did that come from? And that's all I have.
So onto the first question.
You may have to repeat the second question for me.
The first question as I pointed out in the per-treatment increase some of it was -- we did intentional nonrecurring IT expenditures at the end of the year and some of it were normal seasonal increases.
We're not breaking out how much of that is recurring but I think you can assume on a G&amp;A perspective that the run rate that we have for the average of 2014 is likely to be the run rate that we will have in 2015.
And on the second subject I think you asked about the $29 million is that right? Research Division</strong> Yes yes that's right.
Yes.
And what that is is Medi-Cal which is Medicaid in California instituted significant cuts back a while ago.
It became -- it was litigated and so in order to be appropriately conservative prudent we couldn't -- didn't want to realize that revenue.
And recently there were decisions which made it clear that the state would not claw back those dollars and hence it was time to put them through the P&amp;L.
Is that correct Jim? Yes.
That's correct.
Our next question comes from Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just to pick up on the -- on that IT cost.
Could you talk a little bit more maybe in detail about what it was and how you think about whether -- when the decision becomes whether or not to capitalize the cost versus running it through the income statement? I don't think we're prepared at this point to highlight what the individual IT costs were and we certainly haven't made any decisions on capitalizing versus running through the P&amp;L.
It depends of course on the nature of costs in terms of variable versus fixed.
Yes that's right Gary.
We follow GAAP from a capitalization standpoint and the project spend in the fourth quarter was just more of an expense in maintenance type IT as opposed to long-lived assets.
It was just necessary spend that for the most part was not capitalizable.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the revenue per treatment you had some nice pickup.
I don't recall if you said what that was from but could you give us maybe more detail on what the growth in revenue per treatment was? RPT we call it RPT revenue per treatment that is principally -- the rise in the quarter was principally driven by the recognition of the previously discussed California Medi-Cal revenue.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes perfect sense.
And then maybe moving on to HCP.
Kent I think you said that at this point the contracts are structured so that if I guess what happened last time where the managed care providers didn't pass along much or any of the increases to the beneficiaries you guys would not take a disproportionate share of that.
Is that on 100% of the contracts at this point? Or that's on a portion of HCP's contracts? It's just a portion and then that's where I can see that I -- that we don't around this table right now know what the percentage is.
And it tends to not be a monolithic number either because while some of the contracts are now pure in that you're 50% aligned up and down even-steven; other ones have much more complicated formulas or corridors and some have no protection.
And so all I can say is we moved from no protection to having a decent subset of our contracts with some or good protection alignment's almost a better word.
But there's still a bunch that we -- where we are exposed.
And it isn't that we suddenly wanted to reopen every single contract we had.
First of all from a capacity point of view we couldn't do that.
Second you have some of our payers who don't want to do that and particularly for 1 term of an entire contract.
And so it's a bit of a process.
So a little bit analogous to when we were starting to move to bundling in all sorts of our old Kidney Care contracts that it took in the end 3 to 4 years for us to move from 0% to 10% that way to 70% to 80% that way and I think we're on the same kind of journey.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So are we maybe halfway there? Or is there any way to kind of guess where we are in that process? I'm looking around and nobody is confident enough to throw out an estimate.
So I think we'll just have to tell you at Capital Markets with whatever precision we think's appropriate.
But right now it's not a matter of our not being willing to disclose it's that none of us knows the number right around the table.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you had said you incorrectly handicapped the potential changes to MA and you mentioned a couple of the individual items.
Is there any more detail you can give us? Was there one thing that was more than another? Or sort of what should we keep our eyes open for when the rates come out? Well I think it's the whole package.
I mean any one of the levers can add up to significant money over time.
So whether it's the acuity coding also called the RAF scores whether it's the benchmark rate whether it's the coding intensity whether it's adjusting the Star system that -- on the margin that math gets to be pretty significant of profits pretty quickly which is why we are very worried that 2016 could be well below 2015.
And then the other point we wanted to make very clearly is that we did not handicap the dynamism around Medicare Advantage reimbursement rates correctly.
And for that I wanted to apologize and make very clear that I got it wrong.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then once the rates come out how long will it take you guys to go through that? And when could we expect to get some visibility from you on what the impact might be? They'll come out with a preliminary rule on most if not all of those variables on February 20 and then a final on April 10.
I think -- April 6 excuse me.
So in between there'll be a lot of drama.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess in terms of DaVita giving us some kind of guidance or direction in terms of where the proposed rates came out when might we hear that? Oh for that that will be at our Capital Markets on May 5.
Our next question comes from Matt Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Not to beat a dead horse but maybe just staying with the topic here.
I just want to understand is there something that maybe shifted your view on the Medicare Advantage rates for 2016 in terms of industry chatter consultants? The reason I'm asking I guess because the only really piece of hard information that we got in recent months to my knowledge is the trend -- preliminary trend factor which as compared to a year ago when in December of 2013 it came out with very a worrisome number.
This time around it was actually slightly positive.
So I'm just wondering is it because of where we are in the calendar that you're raising the issue now or have there been things recently that have got you particularly concerned? I don't think there's any clean answer to that because obviously in staring at it there's a million different dots to connect from the conversations we're having with people in D.C.
and what other people are saying and what people like you say and all the rest.
So there's no magical source of data that we have.
We do have more susceptibility than others on the RAF coding front because we have an above-average RAF because we have slightly older patients and we've had them for longer periods of time.
And we're more disciplined in both collecting diagnoses as well as acting on them which is why we have superb clinical outcomes.
And so we're more sensitive on that score than others.
But then there's the other 3 4 5 variables.
And right now our concern is that the administration may not realize how close they are to actually reducing the incentive for people to invest in Medicare Advantage which has been the source of tremendous innovation cost reduction and clinical improvements.
In a lot of markets it's estimated now that once you get MA penetration up into that 35% 40% range the ripple effect into affecting fee-for-service expenses is quite substantial.
There's a guy speaking in D.C.
today who's well respected he talked about as much as a 9% spillover effect.
And so we worry that they -- some of them may be trying to if not kill the goose that's laying the golden eggs cut off a leg.
Research Division</strong> And as you look at the -- I mean you talked to this and you've made some progress on renegotiating some contracts.
But do you think that there is some fundamental unfairness in the way that the rate pain comes down between the plans and what you're facing as a delegated provider group? And is that something that might actually make you think differently about being delegated versus going on your own with your own MA plan? Well it's a very colorful question.
I am sure that at some point in some markets we will be a plan.
And this is no different than what I said before.
We prefer to work in alignment with existing plans and feel that's the best way to more quickly get to a good place for everyone including the patient and the physician networks.
But I predict with a high level of certainty that at some point in some markets we will be -- we'll be a plan.
Did I answer enough of that or was there...
Research Division</strong> Yes you did absolutely.
And I just -- sorry just one more follow-up sticking with this theme which is where are your end markets? And there are -- this is happening in markets that you're not in but major hospital systems that are forming their own plans.
How are you working around that? Are you willing to subcontract with those plans versus that maybe shifting the landscape for you? I realize that's a very open question.
So whatever color you can give on that would be great.
No no.
Your intuition is exactly right.
I would think as the years unfold we're going to have some health systems as our partners.
And whether it's their plan and we're a subcontractor or it's our plan and they're a subcontractor or it's both our plans and we're fully partnered that's going to happen.
And for a lot of the health systems that are starting to put a plan on the shelf we're one of the phone numbers they call.
Because once you do that you really get pretty intense about actually managing the population.
And so you're absolutely right.
And that's why 18 months ago we said one of the sort of R&amp;D segments we're going to play with from the perspective of developing growth models was the health system segment and that's why we're working with Centura.
It's why we're talking to 1 or 2 others already right now.
And we may very well in some of those cases be doing a plan with them or a subcontractor to their plan.
Our next question comes from Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Dana Nentin in for Darren.
As it relates to your outlook I was wondering if you could confirm what I guess if at all you're assuming on P&amp;L investments as it relates to the HCP business as well as your international or ancillary businesses.
On international I believe our guidance is that 2015 will be about flat to 2014.
What you have going on underneath that calm exterior is some nice profitability improvements in some countries offset by the increased expenses as we ramp up in Saudi Arabia where we won that huge government contract for 5 000 patients.
So that's the mathematical answer to that.
As to the dollars we're investing in new capabilities in HCP I do not know the number offhand.
It is not a small number because we think the potential for creating long-term competitive advantage is quite substantial.
Of course there's an element of subjectivity.
If you add someone in cybersecurity does that count as new capability that's strategic or is it just a new recurring normal operating expense or is it something in between? So I don't -- for Capital Markets perhaps we can put something on the table that will give you a sense of what is incremental expenses that are very much tied to creating new capabilities for the future as opposed to just supporting existing.
And by the way if I can just break in Dana that someone asked a while ago about ABQ revenues.
And they're back to approximately 80% of their peak which is a significant improvement from 2 years ago at the low.
But back to you Dana.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess just as it relates to a couple of your business segments.
On the DaVita Rx business can you update us on I guess the revenue in that business? Or maybe if you could size it in any way like patients served? We Dana up to this point have not disclosed Rx revenue.
And so I will not make a spontaneous decision to change that policy but we'll take it under consideration before Capital Markets.
It has grown we will say that.
It's not -- it's a material amount of revenue.
And what was the related question? Research Division</strong> If you could size it in terms of maybe patients served? Let me see if I can get permission to share that.
Let me put it on mute for 1 second.
We're going to -- it's approximately 65 000 patients and people are going to check and see how out of date I am or how far off I am but that gives you a ballpark sense.
Our next question comes from Gary Taylor with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions.
The first just going back to kind of the conversation on commercial reimbursement.
Now that EPO is bundled on the government side and I think largely bundled on the commercial side the government is giving you 0 on rate.
This modest -- is it fair to say that this modest growth in revenue per treatment is purely being driven by 1/3 of your revenue or so that's commercial revenue? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And so that seems to imply maybe your commercial rate growth is in the 2% range.
Is that -- what did that look like a few years ago? Has that changed? Well I can't -- Garry is too new to know the past and I am not going to be able to confidently say what year-over-year increases were 3 or 4 years ago.
If I had to guess I would say on a net basis probably higher than that by a bit.
That would be my -- the odds of that statement is directionality true probably 80%.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I know that drug reimbursement was a driver on overall commercial revenue per treatment historically so you have to parse that out.
Is the -- this comment though about the narrow network is that creating some pressure on your out-of-network revenue? Is that an element of the discussion at all? Could you please repeat the question? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Kind of your general comment on commercial rate pressure driven by some structural changes in the industry and I think you mentioned narrow networks.
And I just wondered is there -- DaVita still have a material portion of out-of-network revenue.
And if so is that something that's being pressured by the narrow networks? Certainly out-of-network business is always under pressure.
I don't think we've ever disclosed our precise percentage.
It is in general much lower today than it was before.
And so I will probably leave it at that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Just 2 other quick ones.
On the $33 million HCP operating income I think historically -- I'm not sure if you did this last quarter.
It seems I remember maybe the 2Q but you had talked about what the new market losses were.
Is there an update for that number that's embedded in the $33 million? Yes I think we're trying to move away from some of that parsing.
We did it because at the time it was necessary for you to have a fair picture of what was going on.
And therefore we did it.
At this point we think you've got a fair picture without us going into that kind of detail which a can be misleading; and b sometimes is counter to your interest in terms of how it affects those market dynamics.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
Last question.
I just want to confirm the $11 million foreign currency headwind is only in other comprehensive income and doesn't impact the reported EPS or the reported operating income or the international operating income loss.
Is that correct? Yes.
There is some that ran through other income which is the same line that interest income is in.
And that was about $5 million for the year and about $2.5 million for the quarter of a headwind due to the strengthening dollar.
The rest that you see runs through OCI.
And our next question comes from Trevor Walton [ph] with Advocate Health Care [ph].
Can you guys provide an update on the hemodiafiltration trial that was supposed to end in the fall? Yes.
We -- the hemodiafiltration trial is no longer going on.
We stopped that so we're not doing that anymore.
Does that mean results are not favorable? And you don't see use of the product in the future? We did not see it promising and so at this point we decided to stop the trial.
No details behind exactly why.
And our next question comes from Lisa Clive with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up question on your ancillary services business.
It sounds like from a prior question that much of the growth in recent years has come from DaVita Rx which is performing quite nicely.
Could you also give us an update potentially on the number of patients you have on an integrated care platform today? And really how you see that shaping up in the next few years? Yes.
We don't break that out and it's not to be difficult.
But it really gets difficult to categorize because you can have a pretty tiny pay-for-performance bonus and then define that as sort of a value-added managed care-type contract all the way to being globally capitated.
And so I think from a strategic point of view the number continues to grow and the sort of weighted average depth and robustness continues to grow.
But not in a way that would affect your modeling one way or another which is why we don't think there'll be any particular utility in us sort of arbitrarily defining what counts and what doesn't.
So it's very nice progress.
It helps with relationships.
It's consistent with our mission.
Someday we hope that we can monetize our capability in a way that makes it worth talking about with you.
But right now it's just not.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
An update to that.
Could you give us an update on anything that is potentially going on with the ESCO program? Or is that just completely on ice right now? I think -- I'm going to say words that one should never say.
I think it's going to go into effect soon and that's just because I was in D.C.
recently.
And so I think it's going to go in soon.
We are participating out of a sense of citizenship.
It's not at scalable program as currently defined.
However we totally applaud CMS for doing all the work to get it where it is and in particular Dr.
Conway and others.
And hopefully we can use this as a platform to take that next step to a scalable program which will really transform kidney care in America dramatically improve quality save a bunch of money be good for shareholders be great for families keep people at work.
So we're getting -- we're inching towards the promised land.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That sounds very intriguing.
Just one follow-up question.
It's looked like from the initial proposals that an entity of your size can maybe end up something in the ballpark of 6 000 7 000 patients.
Is that the right way of thinking about it? It's been so long since we submitted the details to be honest I don't remember.
Those numbers could be about right.
Remember CMS gets to pick which proposals for which markets and it's sometimes difficult to forecast then even within one of those selections exactly what the enrollment's going to be.
But that maybe -- it's certainly not that we're going to have 20 000 patients and it's not that we're going to have 1 000.
I mean we could have 0 if they don't award anything to us.
So we'd be surprised and disappointed at that.
So it's not 25 and it's not 1 000 but beyond that I don't really remember.
I think where CMS was is that in total they wanted to have about 15 000 patients in the pilot.
Now they may have gotten more aggressive on that but that used to be the number.
And if you assume that if we're 35% of the patients in America we'd be 35% of the ESCO patients that would put us right about exactly where you were estimating.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Schaper with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Margaret Kaczor in for Scott.
Kent you had mentioned at the beginning of the call that you guys were really going to invest into 4 main areas for HCP: the ICPs the JVs et cetera.
Which of those to date and going forward do you think will have the best ROI? Which one will have kind of fastest growth in MA patients? And if you were a betting man which you're probably not which of the 4 horses would you want to really grow the most on a 5- or 10-year basis? Okay.
Well I'll first give a qualitative answer.
They will all develop slower than you would like.
But then separate from that if we compare the medical group segment to the health system segment to the payer segment to the IPA segment the one that we're by virtue of our DNA most compatible with and attracted to is the medical group segment.
I mean we're a physician caregiver organization and so medical groups are like finding cousins or long-lost brothers or sisters for us as opposed to the other categories.
And so I think that's the one that we're sort of philosophically drawn to.
But as to which one will end up being the best vehicle for good risk-adjusted return on equity it's just too soon to tell.
If you forced me to bet right now even though I'm not a betting man I would go medical groups.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more for me.
Anything that you guys are seeing due to some of the weather the East Coast is getting? Are you seeing people maybe miss some of the dialysis appointments anything on HCP? On the weather in general our teammates do amazing things to help their patients get dialyzed.
And I mean amazing in terms of picking them up in terms of clearing out parking lots when there's no public services to do it working early working late helping babysit for each other's kids so somebody can stay late.
I mean it is inspiring to see what our people do.
As a result almost always almost everyone gets their treatments.
Does anybody around the table know anything different this time? I think no.
And we do all always see a few -- a higher number of mistreatments every winter.
And it just depends on where the storms are and stuff but there is a little seasonal impact every winter.
We just had -- there were floods in Malaysia.
And so we had people that were sleeping and sitting on their roofs because the water filled their houses and our teammates continued to travel by boat to a stranded dialysis center to dialyze with at least one caregiver being apart from their family for 7 days straight to make sure that patients got to the center then back in a boat back to their home.
So it gives you some sense of what they do.
And at this time I show no further questions.
Okay.
Well thank you all very much for your consideration.
We will do the best we can and look forward to seeing many of you at Capital Markets.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good afternoon.
Ill be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the DaVita first quarter 2010 earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Mr.
Jim Gustafson you may begin your conference.
Thank you and welcome everyone to our first quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in company.
Im Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations and with me today is Kent Thiry our CEO Rich Whitney our CFO and LeAnne Zumwal Vice President and Luis Borgen who will be our CFO starting next month.
Id like start with our forward looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent annual report on form 10-K.
Our forward looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally wed like to remind you that during this call we will discuss on a non GAAP financial measures a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our form 8-K submitted to the SEC and are available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you and thank all of you for your interest in DaVita.
We had another solid quarter.
I'll cover five quick topics.
Number one clinical outcomes number two bundling number three government investigations number four industry dynamics excuse me number four outlook and number five industry dynamics.
First clinical outcome is which we always cover first because we are first and foremost a care giving company serving above 119 000 patients now.
Referred to this spec of adequacy which is essentially how well youre doing at removing toxins from our patients blood this quarter 96% of our hemodialysis patients had a Kt/V greater than 1.2.
Second with respect to divesture access 66% our patients have fistulas which is a preferred form of vascular abscess.
Third in management positions that managed 65% of our patients to hemoglobin levels it tends between 10 and 12 over the last three months.
For these inversely all other clinical measures are patient outcomes compared very favorably to the national averages.
Our high quality our high quality clinical care and that is only results in healthier patience.
But it also drives reductions and hospitalization and surgical procedures and therefore significant savings to the American Tax payer.
Topic number 2 the bundle is simply nominal information to report.
We are waiting for the final rule just as you are CMS is still likely to release it in late May or June while we hope the rule will be much better than the interim rule and in fact we expected it.
I want to remind everyone that a bad bundling rule would mean that centers will close which would hurt both access to care and the quality of care.
Topic number 3 government investigations we were recently notified by the department of justice that it is conducting a similar investigation into the company financial relationships with positions.
We have not received any more detail in that but are expecting subpoena sometime in the near future.
As most of you know investigations in this nature generally take years to conclude also as most of you know our comments at this stage must necessarily be quite generic.
Namely with 34 000 team-mates in more 1800 locations across the country it would be nave to assert that we are sure that we are perfect everywhere and everyday.
And we whole heartedly respect the governments responsibility to ensure the appropriateness of our and other provider practices.
However for any perspective share holders out there listening or doing due diligence on DaVita.
You will find that our 10 year track record with respect to these types of investigations is almost uniquely positive in the world of American Health Care.
Topic number 4 outlook.
Very simply we are maintaining our 2010 operating income guidance of $950 million to $1.02 billion looking into 2011 everyone know we faced challenges and opportunities of adapting to the new bundle and that could mean and probably will mean two to four quarters of transitional activities.
The fifth and final topic just stepping back for a moment and looking at fundamental industry dynamics and the fundamental risk to avoid characteristics of your investments or potential investment in us.
On the risk side there is no understating the fact that there is an unusual government rate pressure these days in all of American healthcare and there is normal private rate pressure that there is simply no getting away from those risks on the upside side however point A the bundle does create $1.1 billion of innovation potential and in that sphere scale helps.
Point B if government funding becomes more inadequate centers will close and given CMS shares accountability for 88% of American dialyses patients center closings are appropriately highly visible and highly sensitive.
Point C the structure of our industry and of course our own business model therefore is still marked by one stable demand number two distinctively transparent economics and clinical performance with 85% of the centers being stand alone and all during essentially 1 DRG 0.3 of that 75% of the centers in America being owned by rational shareholders who recognize the sad fact that the government does not cover the expenses in taking care of the patients for whom they have assumed responsibility and therefore the private sector must unfortunately subsidize that deficit and points soar.
The proximity and continuity of care for these patients is incredibly important.
And then the final point to be made on the upside side is recently three of the MDOs the Medium Dialysis Organization the small chains if you were have received private equity funding which appears to reflect compatible lead on risk reward characteristics that I just walked us through.
And now on to Rich Whitney our CFO.
Overall the first quarter came in as expected and was characterized by very strong cash flow a continued product mix decline and solid commercial rate improvement.
Compared to Q1 of last year revenue was up nearly 8% operating income up 10% and EPS up 13% non-acquired growth was 4.2% in the quarter this is somewhat lower than recent quarters and growth in quarter was adversely impacted by heavy snowstorms in the first quarter as well as a slowdown in a few key markets.
Taking the storm impact into account we are around the middle of our recent non-acquired growth rate of 4 to 5%.
Dialysis revenue per treatment increased $4.27 sequentially the main contributors were an improvement in commercial rates the 1% Medicare composite rate update and seasonally higher lab revenues these positives were partially offset by decline in physician prescribed pharmaceuticals.
Lower EPO ASP reimbursement and the deterioration in product mix that I mentioned.
Dialysis operating expenses per treatment increased $2.82 sequentially.
About 80% of this increase was labor including seasonably higher payroll taxes and lower teammate productivity.
The balance of the increase in cost was primarily the impact of spreading 6 to operating expenses over fewer treatment days in the quarter and an EPO price increase and those items offset somewhat by the lower physician prescribed pharmaceuticals mentioned above.
Onto cash flow Q1 was a strong cash flow quarter operating cash flow $263 million free cash flow $22 million and net cash flow $216 million.
A 2 day reduction in DSO to 66 days timing of working capital items and the timing of cash taxes all contributed to the strong operating cash flow.
At this time we are maintaining our 2010 operating cash flow guidance of $675 to $725 million as we expect some of these timing items may turn around as the year progresses.
Finally regarding cash flow both capital spending and acquisitions were low in Q1 about $70 million less than Q1 by comparison.
So this also contributed to the strong net cash flow and the growth in our cash balances in the quarter.
Our quarter end cash balance was a little over $750 million.
As you know over the least year or so we have been conservative in our net leverage levels and in the use of our cash given the financial market disruption uncertainty around health care reform and M&amp;A discussions and of course the impending bundling rule.
While most of that uncertainty is now cleared we still do not expect to take any dramatic actions ahead of the bundling rule.
Once we have clarity around the rule we would expect to make some more significant decisions regarding the allocation of our cash amongst growth buyback and debt repayment.
In the meantime as you saw in the release we have recalled $200 million of our senior notes.
Given our ample liquidity and the recent step down in the call premium on these notes as well as the fact that these notes ultimately need to be repaid in connection with any re-financing of our senior credit facilities we knew this was a prudent use of our excess cash that will reduce our ongoing interest expense by approximately $1 million per month.
Thats a pre-tax number.
Okay.
Next a few words about the better end administration.
The average rates we receive from the VA are currently above Medicare rates but well below commercial rates.
In late February the VA announced a proposed rule that would unilaterally and significantly cut our rates if implemented.
So if they go forward with this rule number one it may not look hold up to legal scrutiny.
Number two; many better is access to care will be severely compromised.
Number three some setters will undoubtedly close and number 4 they will likely have a big operating mess on their hands as they try to implement a Medicare payment systems which is in transition and yet to be fully defined.
The industry opposes this dramatic and unilateral rate cut and is working with the VA and Congress to find hopefully a more reasonable alternative.
So we do not know if or how or when the VA will implement any rate changes.
But if they do it would be a meaningful headwind as we move into 2011.
As per our financial outlook as Kent mentioned we remained comfortable with our full year guidance.
With that said our current view is that certain timing issues will probably cause Q2 to be flat to Q1 in terms of operating income with more improvement coming in quarters 3 and 4.
There are 5 primary drivers of that reality number 1 acquisition timing while the pipeline and the full year looks solid.
We got of to a slower start on acquisitions this year.
Point number 2 our nation wide leadership meeting this meeting of more than 2000 center level and other leaders of our company takes place in Q2 causing seasonally high expenses.
Point number 3 Q2 typically has between 1 and 2 more treatment days than Q1.
This year it happens to have Q2 happens to have only one additional treatment day.
Point number 4 Q2 has another sequential reduction in the ASP for EPO reimbursement and then point number 5; we do anticipate somewhat higher labor costs in Q2.
In part due to the transition to mandatory mandatory patient care technician certification which is effective April 15 <sup> </sup>of this year.
So I want to surely emphasize that this is no change in our outlook for the year.
But it is likely that OI growth will be more back loaded this year then as typical.
Similarly as we look at Q2 given that we havent bought back any shares year-to-date straight share count estimates are high.
Also as you would expect we are not likely to do anything dramatic head of the bundling rules and so we may buyback some stock any Q2 buybacks would only impact weighted average share counts for a partial quarter.
And then finally as previously announced in the coming days Luis Borgen will step into the role of Chief Financial Officer Luis comes to DaVita with a breadth finance experience having served in a number of senior finance roles in his 13 years at Staples.
We are excited to welcome Luis to our team.
As for my part I enjoyed serving our team and our shareholders as CFO for the last two years and I look forward to staying on to help Luis with his transition.
And someone just handed me a note and indicated that I misspoke that we are saying the share count estimates are too low not too high.
Thank you very much.
Okay can you please open it up for Q&amp;A please? Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Question for you Kent.
You mentioned earlier that there's been a few regional deals at pretty good multiples multiples which I assume are above the range that you were hoping to pay for some of these transactions.
Does that in any way change your outlook about your hope to essentially use your cash to do a large transaction? And if so what then moves up the priority list? Fair question and you are correct in your premise given the multiples that some of these transactions were done at the odds that we would offer a premium to that in time in the near future and do a transaction are necessarily lower than they were had we done the deal itself and so your premise is correct.
There are still other potential acquisition in this space and then there are of course are the options which outlined of buying back stock or paying down debt and then we have the final option of investing in accelerating growth in our home infusion business or elsewhere.
So those are things that start to move up the priority list given a number of the small change might be temporarily off the table at a reasonable price.
Is there a view that you guys obviously have been doing a number of tuck-in acquisitions anyway? Is there a view that that might accelerate or logistically it's very difficult to make up a small regional chain with a large number of small one-off type transactions? Once again your premise is correct higher to do enough tiny ones to equal doing a medium one although the bundle may lead to an increase in the number of small properties on the market we really can't predict that with any certainty at this time.
Okay.
Just obviously it makes sense to wait on the bundle reg before you figure out the best use of capital if you deploy capital but is there a view that within a few months you guys would know what the best use of capital is or is this still something that could take some time to evolve the decision process? A fair question We've historically been incredibly reticent to put some kind of time frame on making a decision like that because who knows what will change not between now today when we say that and the day of whatever timeline that we would offer up so I guess we prefer rather than commenting on the short term future instead look back at our history and its clear that we never go too long without making a definitive decision and acting on it in a relatively clear way and so I think the past is the most useful guide in this case and for decisions like this unless you think you are a superb predictor of the future in a way that no one else is plus or minus a month or two is just not relevant to long term shareholder value.
That's helpful.
Last question I know that historically you haven't given this number out but would love to see if you can answer it this time or at least the very least as we head into the bundling.
What percent of your commercial contracts are bundled? I know in the past at your investor day in particular you mentioned that the commercial contract bundling is one of the factors that might go into whether you would move all in into the bundled rate or whether you might phase in and given the importance of the decision process we would like more color on that breakout on the commercial contract side? We are not going to change our position so it doesnt makes sense for us to disclose that number but I think what I would say is that we have fair amount of our business bundled and we expect to bundle more in the current year and I think that were comfortable with where we stand at this point in time.
Thats probably the only color that I think we can offer.
Good afternoon.
Just a couple of questions.
Kent I was wondering if you can talk about the competitive landscape especially with some of the mid-sized deals that we've been seeing and capital infusion.
And then with could you also talk about the pricing environment pricing has been pretty good for you guys obviously there are some moving parts.
Just wondering what we should expect for the rest of the year?   I wish we knew what pricing was going to look like on deals for the balance of the year.
Whenever theres new capital infused into segments and we dont know at this point exactly what the net amount of new capital but its appropriate how they are concerned that might drive up some pricing.
On the other hand most of the companies were talking about having a history of being quite disciplined in their deployment of capital and thats a good thing.
And then in addition the uncertainty around bundling makes a lot of folks a little more hesitant not necessarily more hesitant to invest in the space generally but in deciding which centers are most attractive.
So at this point if you asked everybody in this side of their speaker phone whether prices would likely to be higher or lower the same you probably get a mixture of opinions with a slight bias towards being higher but it is really slight.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess the other pricing aspect I was looking for was the average revenue per treatment.
Rich gave some detail in his prepared remarks.
I was just wondering should we expect the 2% type of pricing growth to continue.
Kevin there on revenue for treatment there is number of components of course one is the pricing and the other is at least until we are bundled the fluctuations that we see quarter to quarter in our position prescribed pharmaceutical intensities.
And then off course we have the mix our care mix and so currently our commercial pricing is solid and pretty consistent with our recent experience so hasnt been much of a change there.
As it relates to intensities the what we seen over the last couple of quarters it is really fluctuation within the normal band of how it moved historically.
But obviously it is important not mention as the driver of revenue for treatment.
And then finally we have experienced discontinued deterioration and mix and its been seven quarters now as we said in the past its roughly half patients staying with us longer meaning lower mortality primarily and have the mix of new patients which really is tracking that the changes weve seen in the economy and unemployment and more directly the lower number of insurance lives that all insurance companies are reporting.
So its been very difficult for us to predict with any accuracy revenue per treatment direction right now.
Those are the underlined components that we are looking for a signal on mix in terms if taught we havent seen that yet.
And not much changing right now we are doing fine on commercial pricing and not much changing right now we are doing fine on commercial pricing and intensities we would expect the same kind of quarter-to-quarter fluctuation within reasonable bands that we have seen for the last four or six quarters.
Excellent.
And then last question back to Kent.
I wonder if we can get an update on DaVita Rx and to the disease management programs.
Sure the DaVita Rx continues to be profitable continues to grow continues to do wonderful things for patients and taxpayer and so absent any structural changes out there and of course there could be some we are feeling very good about having traded that capability for all the different reasons we were interested in doing so and then the disease management front that continues to be R&amp;D which is closer code word their saying it looses money and we continue to get better at managing down total cost of Kidney care which we think for our shareholders is an asset and a capability that some day we are going to be able to monetize in a very healthy manner but not yet because at this point there arent enough buyers for that integrated care to support the scale of the cost associated with delivering it.
But we are getting better every year both in terms of adding value and adding it more efficiently and as you know from everything you read about healthcare reform the market is getting more and more interested.
The markets defined are both the government and the private sector in purchasing the kind of integrated care that we are prepared to deliver.
Did I answer the question? Yes thank you.
Thanks Kevin.
Thanks.
I was hoping maybe you could talk a little bit more about how you are thinking in terms of the bundle and transitioning whether your thoughts are towards transitioning all at once or transitioning over time and maybe you can give us a little bit of color in terms of what would make you more likely to transition over time versus what would make you more likely to go in all at once? To the basic question which we will do we have no idea until we see the rule and as to the variable right Gary the list gets pretty long given everything that was in the proposed rule that will probably be different but we don't know how different and so it's I think too longer list to be useful because the rules going to affect so many part of our cost and revenue structure so I think it's better to just say at this point we are totally open minded.
Okay.
And then maybe just ask a question on the VA.
Is there some event you can point to that made the VA focus more on their rates this year than in past years? Did someone increase the rates significantly on the VA that caused them to focus on it? Or is there some other event that you're aware of? What caused them to focus on it which is their general budget situation the VA particularly and the government more generally and then its important to point out that the rule applies to all aspects of the health care they provide not just dialysis.
Okay.
And then I guess maybe ultimately do you think it gets negotiated out with the VA or do you think they take a hard line and you guys will have to do what you have to do? It's too early in I guess calling in a conversation might not be the right label.
It is too early in the process to handicap the outcome.
There are a number of people on the VA who are still very resolved to do exactly what they set out to do X months ago.
There are number of other people who are now very worried that if they do that for dialysis patients they may cause harm to a lot of veterans and significantly increase total health care costs and so whats the point.
Its our responsibility as a community and as a leading provided to go to them with responsible coherent implementable proposals which get them hard dollar savings and at the same time preserved gets access to the kind of care that we provided that they cant get otherwise so it simply too early to handicap and we are making a little bit of targets every month but to express any optimism would be unfair to you.
A few questions here.
First Kent you mentioned this new investigation.
I might have only heard half of it I apologize but if you can flush out specifically it sounds like you said they were looking at physician partnerships.
Is that right? Is there anything else you can tell us? Financial relationships with physicians and we dont have any details beyond that what that typically means of course is joint ventures and medical director arrangements and things like that but thats just speculating.
We just know the label of financial relationships for the physicians.
Right.
There's been investigations of this sort in the industry before right?  Quite a few.
And you've been looked at in this manner at both your medical directors and any agreement you have there as well as the partnerships you have on the facility side is that correct?  Well the short answer is yes.
Based on our guess on what they are going to look at and so totally know more about what theyre going to look at.
We can't say definitively that someone else is already looked at it but a lot of our position related stuff has been looked at a couple of times over the last 10 years.
That does not mean that this new process might not focus on something that has not been locked at before and so I want to be very careful in my word choice.
Got it.
I guess just one last question on this piece of the call.
Like you said you said we have seen this before ten years you have a pretty good track record or very good track record.
Is there anything new that you might be able to point in the industry as far as practices here? You've had medical directorships have been out there.
You've had the same language in the case for a while and then on physician partnerships you've also had these facility agreements for a long time.
Is there anything new there that they might be looking at that they hadnt had a chance to look at the last time?   Not that we know of but its pretty impossible to answer given we dont have any thing from them.
So probably be best answer to the question you asked is we dont know because we dont know anything beyond that which weve said.
That's very helpful Kent.
I just have a couple of questions on the business and then I'll jump back out of the queue.
One Rich you mentioned the continued private mix decline I think was the way you put it.
Can you give us any color here when you say it's continuing is that I would assume that means its deteriorated further from where the mix was coming out of the year?  Yes deteriorated further as it has for past seven quarters and in Q1 the deterioration was not as significant as it was in Q4.
Okay so the second derivative has improved a little bit? Dont know whether to call that a trend or not for its effects.
Okay.
That is helpful.
It just becomes a little bit more curious and I'm sure you have seen your largest competitor out there the last few quarters as you've been reporting this has been saying the exact opposite.
Is there any way you can reconcile that given the place in the industry you two sit at? Yeah well I think we should probably start by saying there is some confusion on our side as whether whether they are talking about revenue mix or volume mix.
We are talking volume mix so I wanted start by saying that and then as it relates to our own trends as we often said it is half improve mortality in half the climbed mix newer patients which to us given everything thats going on around us broadly in health care and the economy this pretty expected.
We would think that both of those factors would be impacting I can see in the same kind of way.
And in fact we have look at the mix changes to our markets where we share our presence with FMC and the decline of those markets has been consistent with the overall decline in the rest of our business so we dont really see any difference in the markets where we are sharing market or competing head to head with FMC.
So of course we dont have any of this data we only have our own which we monitor incredibly closely but the difference could be in this definition of what does one mean by commercial mix its possible there could be a geographic differences although again we only see it in the market that we look at and then finally we sort of have to be open to the possibility that they may just be up performing us.
So we are taking it pretty seriously.
That's helpful.
And then just one last question on the VA.
So in the preliminary announcement they said the dialysis cut was 40% on average I'm sure that varies.
Can you tell us whether that is a reasonable number to think about for DaVita? Well I think what we could say is that there is at least one highly respected analyst thats offered us a number of $50 million as being a potential estimate of the impact and I think what we would say is the fact that thats a fair and reasonable estimate of what the exposure could be here.
When does that typically if it just happens when would it happen? If that goes through would it be calendar year government fiscal year? Well as proposed October 1 of 2010 and whether that actually can happen on that time table is another question.
But thats as proposed.
Thanks and good afternoon this is Brian Zimmerman filling in for Darren.
I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about de novos and how 2010 is shaping up on that front.
Sure Brian.
Really no change from what we said at capital markets day which is your expectation in the current year we are open around the same number of de novos that we opened last year and so you can think about it as around 80 the maybe the only other thing to report is that while we are still experiencing de novos certification delays we have been successful on working down that backlog of uncertified de novos and the number that we have right now is about 44 so it's down quite a bit from the I think the peak levels were around almost 60 if I am not mistaken that give you a sense we probably won't continue to report on the exact number because the issue is moderating from a shareholder perspective but of course we are still dealing with the day to day and some states are worse than others etcetera.
Okay thanks and then also can you discuss a little bit about your JV strategy and whether it is becoming more important in your development plans? We have done more JVs with nephrologists than any other company ever and we continue to be very comfortable with that model and therefore our position today is the same it has been when they are done correctly.
They are very good for all stakeholders and we will continue to do them with great regularity.
Okay.
And then I guess one final question.
I notice that your strategic initiatives business was better sequentially from an income perspective; do you think that this segment could turn break-even by the end of the year? That's really just a timing issue; our guidance really remains the same on what we expect from strategic initiatives.
That are first quarter than they were tracking at but no change in outlook for the year.
Hi there.
You answered a couple of my questions already but on the bond buyback the call $200 million of that $900 million senior note tranche is there any I guess a small percentage of the bond I was wondering if you can explain your rationale there in terms of taking out $200 million of that and why you won't look at the higher coupon subordinated bond the 7 in the quarter of 15 and also just can you touch on your plans to refinance the capital structure given the bank debt maturity? Okay so I think there are a few questions in there I think I believe that the first question was why only 200 why not more? Yeah thats right.
And that really is just a function of continuing to keep our options open in terms of relative mix of the allocation of our free cash.
Again we are on the EPO of reimbursement rule change and so we kind of want to keep our options open with that said we have ample of liquidity and generate a lot of cash this quarter and felt that it was time now to use some of that cash relief a bit of interest burden so thats why 200 and not more.
I believe that your second question was why not take off the higher coupon sub notes and the reason is because they have longer dated maturities.
They have substantially higher call premiums as a result and third the senior notes for all practical purposes will likely have to be re-financed that the time that we do re-financing of the senior credit facilities.
And so I call in an hour essentially just accelerating something that we would ultimately do inevitability.
No longer dated sub notes thats not the case.
We dont have to take them out to re-finance our senior credit facilities.
So did that answer the second question?  Yeah I mean thank you.
And it made some sense that when you re-finance the credit facilities and give them the longer data but not by much I guess sort of 2015 and here we are mid 2010 etcetera.
I mean as you re-financed that bank facility sometimes people have you might just re-finance the whole capital structure in terms of all the debt.
Sounds like you are saying you probably just do the seniors?  TBD but we know the seniors would have to come out most likely have to come out to facilitate a re-financing.
And then I think your third question was what are you thinking about in terms of during the re-financing and I dont have a concrete answer for you at the moment.
Again were kind of waiting that you get through this bundling rule here.
However given the maturities it would be certainly are expectation that by the time we got into first or second quarter of 2011 that we would have expected that re-financed by that.
Good afternoon.
I think that last question answered a few of mine.
So I'll just skip over here but one question that came up earlier and I was interested in your comments Kent in response to this but discussing your acquisition plans and how that may have changed given the new private equity investment in the dialysis space and you mentioned beyond the debt paybacks and stock buybacks the possibility of potentially expanding your home infusion business.
Can you just talk a little bit more about your home infusion business? Have you looked at any home infusion opportunities over the past year? And just what you are thinking about with that business and has that changed at all given the changing landscape on the dialysis side?  First a moments history which will be helpful to anyone who is new to the DaVita.
The first year after we bought the home infusion company we almost killed it we smothered it with mothership love and the second year the team which was fortunately still there.
And a new group of DaVita partners did a wonderful job of turning it around and giving it back not only to where it had been but beyond where it had been.
And so we are only about 9 months 12 months into Phase 3 post hurting it post turning it around and coming of a very nice 12 months of growth and a whole bunch of dimensions and improved capability.
So with that as a factual backdrop we do want that business to grow much more in 10 and 11 than they did in 08 and 09.
At this point we are focused significantly on de novo growth versus acquisition growth because we are not quite comfortable yet with paying the multiples and exposing near capital in that fashion.
However we have looked at a couple of opportunities and we are not totally closed to it but I repeat our primary growth of this is on a dramatic expansion of our de novos in that space.
Just one follow-up question to that.
When you guys think about your home infusion business do you think about potential synergies or in the future with your DaVita Rx business? I think its very possible that what we have and this is in response to your question so its not a point of view that we are pushing but in response to your question everyone knows that over the next years coming down the biological pipeline the pharma pipeline there are a number of more complex drugs in biologicals that scream out for more coherence distribution value added distribution if you will.
In order to get to the right patients under the right clinical protocols with the right data collected etcetera.
And with our network of 1600 1700 dialysis centers with caregivers and integrated electronic medical system with the some infusion companies experience in taking care of lots of different pharmaceutical delivery both at home and in infusion suits and the DaVita Rxs capability to deliver either to a center or to the home all the drugs that a patient needs that dont require being handed over and infused or injected by a nurse it is possible that we could become a highly differentiated value added distributor and partner to a lot of those pharma and biotech companies.
We will see but we've put together the ingredients how long it might take to cook that into something that attractive to you guys is not clear but we certainly do think about it.
And one more follow-up to that and I recognize that your answer will just be answering my question again but when you guys think about what described or that possibility how does that play into how you look at home hemodialysis as well? Short answer is not very much.
On the one hand it has been useful as we were hoping to use the home infusion company as way of getting a whole other lens of looking at home hemodialysis because you necessarily end up of having a whole bunch of conventional wisdom embedded and you are thinking that you don't even realize and by having another successful business that does a lot of stuff at home and helped us calling the question certain operating assumptions that we didn't even know we are making with respect to home hemodialysis whether hemo or PD so that is useful having said that at this point still most of the investment dynamics around home hemodialysis are not affected by anything going on in the home IV.
Okay.
Just one last question and it just relates to the investigation you announced.
I think you mentioned it's a civil investigation by the DOJ? Is that correct? Yes And so the question was just with the separate from that investigation what's the status of the Missouri the 2005 Missouri U.S.
Attorney's investigation? I cannot do a good job of responding so people understand we will scurry about while we are taking other questions and see if we can get you something useful for everyone else to hear and if not you can follow up with a phone call and we will give you that update.
Great thank you.
I think the bottom-line if it has not been active in some time we will get you a couple of more factoids.
Well in fact now there is another 10 seconds to reflect and being a little slow here today when you sit in Missouri I didnt quickly align that with St.
Louis.
St Louis has been very quite for a couple of years now thats the answer to that question; I apologize for my inability to do any geographic matching in my head.
I can add on to that.
We were in document production all the way through the end of 2009 but in terms of having any kind of substantive contact with the government its been since 2008 that we have had any.
So not a lot going on right now.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Incidentally calling from St.
Louis so Kent I'm appalled at your geography.
A few questions but I think very quick answers.
Just going through the investigation again your sense is this would be a national look at your practices? Are your physician relationships on a national basis? Yes.
Any sense that others might be receiving the same inquiries as we have seen sometimes historically? We have no insight into that.
And do you have an idea which U.S.
attorney this come out of? Would this be one of culprits Missouri Pennsylvania New York that weve seen before?  I think all we can say now is what weve said.
Okay.
Rich on the call premium on the notes did you say what that was down this side?  I did not say what it was.
I believe it is 101.5 but I will check with you.
And that would just be a non recurring item in the 2Q I guess?  Correct.
Also I noted the new disclosure or I guess I think a little bit different disclosure of the equity investment income being called out on its own line item.
Am I right if thats new?   Thats not new.
So I'm not sure what you might be looking at.
The fact thats growing.
That reflective of JVs is that what that is primarily?  No.
JVs would show up in the minority interest.
So what is this line item?  We have some doubt this business that we dont own would be owned less than 50% thats affected best.
And there are few other things in there.
Let me get back to you on that.
Okay.
A quick question just on AR strength is about 50 million better.
You called it out but it was about 50 million better than our model both on the balance sheet and the cash flow statement.
Any color at all just pure timing of nothing really to look at there? Obviously good result.
Youll take it but anything else beyond that?  I'm sorry did you say AR?  Yes.
Yes just two day improvement sequentially and it is really a function of a strong cash collection quarter.
You know some improvements they made over time and we hope its sustainable but not ready to predict that at the moment.
And then finally just going to the VA issue this isn't kind of I guess a federal or CMS rulemaking process that we are all kind of used to seeing the proposed rule whatever.
If they were to proceed attempting to implement this on 10/1 is there some public notice that you think we might see or would you know that before the public would know that?  Well let make a step at the answering and then LeAnne you can correct me if I get it wrong.
The fact is there was a common period and the industry did submit a number of written comments for their reflection and they are now in a reflecting stage.
And LeAnne is bowing her head up and down saying that all those words are accurate.
But not a definitive idea on when I guess a final decision? Just sometime between now and October?   No okay that is correct we do not know when they will make their decision.
Okay.
That's all I had.
Thank you.
Gary let me circle back and give you the answers to some of the things that we didnt have at our finger tips.
So the call premium is 101.656 and our estimate is that we would have a one time pre-tax charge of about $4 million to accounts for that in Q2.
And your question about equity income I hope it is there and am not sure if there was something else in there but heres what it is in centers that we dont a own a 100% but are consolidated in our financial statements the owner share of that income shows up in minority interest so what you use to get all minority interest.
What shows up in the equity income is our centers where we have the minority interest and we dont consolidate those centers that we only pickup our share of their income.
So thats the difference and what I wanted to check is whether that was everything and in fact that is everything you see that runs through that line item.
Is there a business reason why that type of non-consolidated investment would be increasing? No.
Do you do more of those types of? No we had one larger one in the not too distant past; I think its really of more function of the changing profitability in some of those investments.
We only have a handful of them just not really part of our core part of our strategy.
Hi.
Just a quick one here at the end.
As you move into bundling have you noticed any change of behavior on behalf of your vendors? Are they coming to you with proactive solutions or is this going to be kind of a typical sort of interaction? Id say that the conversations are spirited and.
You have a lot of good euphemisms today.
That's a good one.
And they know that we are pretty intense in this subject the entire provider community and so there will be some major league opportunities for some of them to dramatically improve or secure their strategic position but the details around that will require some thrashing.
Okay.
And my other question is and this goes back to the disease management business but would you have expected it by this point in time that maybe some forward-thinking payers might be willing to talk about some kind of global capitation for their dialysis patients or is this progressing like you thought it would? I think honest answer to the question is if you ask me four years ago I would have predicted that more would have happened by then and so that's the answer to your question.
If you would ask me two years ago I would have said we will be right about where we are because the private payers have so many other larger segments that got some serious data issues and they have this issue understandably around their need to subsidize the government and when the X percent that are private subsidizing in deficit traded by the 85 to 88% that are government that leads to higher rates which dont exactly put you in the mood to want to do all sorts of other things.
So I think that some of why it is moved slowly and I wouldn't anticipate any dramatic change in the next year or two either.
Okay.
And then lastly looking at healthcare reform one of the things that will happen is fairly large expansion of the Medicaid population I think 15 million is the number.
Have you guys done any analysis to try to predict what percent of your patients which you are currently privately insured might get moved to Medicaid? We dont have a belief of that is will be a significant trend what we expect the impact will likely be as it will see a shifting from Medicare covered patients to Medicaid covered patients.
Unlike other provider segments we dont have the uninsured issue because virtually all patients can qualify for Medicare.
So I think that would be the primary the other factor that plays into this is secondary coverage.
A lot of patients are covered by Medicare in the primary position and dont have secondary coverage for the co-pay because they dont need to income test to qualify for the secondary coverage to qualify for Medicare.
So that also would be where we would expect to see the trends on Medicaid.
Thats all independent from funding changes and Medicaid which are a whole different story.
Good evening guys.
A couple of quick this and thats here.
Kent I just always want to make sure that I'm hearing correctly what you are saying.
Going back to your discussion in your prepared remarks on bundling did you say that you obviously you are highlighting the risk that it might not happen but at this point you are expecting the final rule to be better than the proposed rule? Yes.
Looking at your outlook for 2011 you talked about two to four quarters of transitional activity.
I'm wondering do you think that bundling is going to require any sort of increase in spending on your part or is that more sort of a way of saying that it might take two or three quarters two or four quarters for you to institute some clinical and other operating changes to mitigate some of the impact at the bundles.
Primarily the latter but I would not want to claim that former is zero.
Sure.
But primarily the latter then.
Just quickly on the department of justice announcement having been through this a couple of times you guys have realized that there are no commentary really is necessary on what you think is going to happen but maybe just to clarify you touched on.
In terms of financial relationships that you do have with physicians they are primarily medical directorships in terms of the salaries there and then in terms of joint ventures.
Are there any other significant financial relationships that you have with physicians?  We have a small number of physicians who are employed full time or part time if thats a tiny number.
We off course do acquisitions and joint ventures acquisitions and divestures separate from joint ventures.
So those are a couple of the other categories that I can think of but the categories you mentioned are the ones that are numerically most prominent.
Okay great.
And then finally Rich just a couple of questions.
Again on the VA what percentage of the revenue is VA?  Around two?  Around two percent.
Okay great.
And is there any I'm just trying to figure out how those it works literally on a day-to-day dialysis basis.
Are there any centers that you have concentrations of VA patients or are they spread geographically?  They arent spread geographically but as Kent mentioned earlier maybe they were in my remarks if the cut goes through undoubtedly some centers will have enough VA patients but to make a difference relative to have a tough go and may have to close  Let me step in and a little closer to this one the primary answer to your question is that they are quite spread.
However it is definitely true when Rich had prophesized about it and asked for his answer that there are a small number of centers for the high number of debts and it would be very difficult to keep them open.
And I just want to be clear talking about the small number of DaVita centers.
Correct and so you assume reasonable proportionality in thinking about the impact overall.
Overall.
Andreas just to be complete the other thing that we would add to Kents answer about the financial relationships with the physicians that we do from time to time have leases with physicians where we think offices from them or in fact sometimes there maybe a leasing officers from us.
And thats an area where we have a whole seven procedures to make sure that those leases are done at an arms length to fair market value basis.
And I guess its just fair asking the question while I got you I would assume that the answer is yes in terms of that you consider your medical directorship agreement to be arms length in the market?  Fair market value is the mantra.
Regarding the VA can you give us any feel for the percentage cuts that they are proposing? You know its really the VA it pays us in different ways in different parts of the country so I think that the best we could do for you right now is really point to the estimates that are out there which are in the neighborhood of 50 million I think we dont want to cut it any finer than that and thats a reasonable characterization of the risk.
Okay.
Well let me think about at it this way then.
If your revenues this year are about $6.6 billion and their 2% that's $132 million.
If we are talking about 50 out of 132 that's about a 38% cut? As you have all the pieces you can do the math and kind of get close I just dont want to close your number.
So I'm thinking about that right.
Secondly you talked about the uncertainty with bundling and obviously now there's the uncertainty here with the VA.
Is that also part of why your at least for now a little hesitant on acquisitions and de novo are you slowing those a little bit too until at least the bundling is clear? Short answer is no we are not hesitant on conventional acquisitions nowhere on de novos.
Why would you not be hesitant there at all but obviously be hesitant on share repurchase? Because when we are doing acquisitions we can allow for arrange of potential bundling outcomes and had a satisfactory price we feel very comfortable that risk adjusted our shareholders equity getting good return and there are same ways de novos those decisions tend to come in much smaller chunks than some other decisions.
If we think about batching acquisitions together into a single $300 million acquisition then as opposed to sort of buying all is the same as to buy stock all in one day or do you buy overtime does necessarily for both different thinking as we evaluate it and if you are doing 100 smaller transactions spread over a year.
So the share repurchase you would think of the same way in other words if the price was such that you felt like it was a good return under any reasonable scenario you'd be willing to do it.
It just hasn't been that recently because of the uncertainty? I don't know if Ive used those exact words so I probably just repeat the words I said the good news about buying back our own stock if we don't do it today we know we can do it tomorrow.
The tough thing about acquisition is if you don't buy today somebody else maybe will and you can't come back and say 60 days see I change my mind.
So it's pretty hard to compare those two decisions given as such a radical difference in the context and in which you are making them.
I think the other thing in this sort that they were done in my prepared remarks is that you got to stop talking about the context that there were a series of reasons why we were being conservative with our cash for the last 12 months and none of those really had anything to do with what the price of our stock was.
They had to do with preserving financial flexibility and liquidity for potential opportunities and because of uncertainty in the market place financial markets and otherwise.
So I think that sort of tempting as somebodys things to start to clear to forget that it hasnt been that long since the bunch of these uncertainties began to fall away and including literally in the last several weeks when a number of the mid sized balance this organization did transactions that would lead us to believe that maybe the argument in near term transaction might be lower.
So these things are evolving.
We still have the bundling rule ahead of us and that would keep us from doing anything dramatic but I dont think you should read too much into what our views are on the stock price by the fact that we have build up this amount of cash because its really the other factors that you have mentioned.
Hopefully that helps.
Just two quick follow-ups: one the VA or a proposed VA cut is that in your guidance order or not? It is not.
And then two I was wondering Rich if you could provide any more detailed coloring on the five items that you said would impact Q2 operating income how much will the nationwide meeting add to I assume that G&amp;A any of those details would be helpful? Yeah I think the way I look at it is we give you a five of the primary reasons and each one of these reasons individually is only really a couple of million dollars.
The collection of them that leads us to a different kind of sequential trend in operating income this year that maybe you are used to.
And again still feel fine about the year; its really just how this develops quarter-by-quarter.
Okay.
Thank you operator and thanks to everyone else for your interest between now and the next time we will do our best.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome and thank you for joining DaVita's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Now I'll turn the call over to your host Mr.
Jim Gustafson.
Thank you.
You may now begin.
Thank you Vince and welcome everyone to our second quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations.
And with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Jim Hilger our Interim CFO and Chief Accounting Officer; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start with our forward-looking disclosure statements.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings included in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will disclose some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Jim.
Solid results in Q4 for both Kidney Care and HCP.
We'll start by discussing our clinical outcomes first as we always do.
176 000 dialysis patients in America about 35% of the patients in America; 98% with a Kt/V of 1.2 or greater; 73% of patients with fistulas placed for access.
And we'd like to talk a little bit about our VillageHealth metrics where we're at the cutting-edge of integrated care for these kidney care patients with numbers like the hospitalization rate 26% better than the U.S.
ESRD average; our readmission rate 31% better than the U.S.
ESRD average; and as low as 5% catheter rates; and our special needs plans less than half are already industry-leading companywide rate and 70% better than the U.S.
ESRD average.
These are wonderfully exciting numbers of incredible clinical and economic benefits for society cannot be scaled until we have a new government program and we are hopeful in that regard and then continue to work collaboratively with the government to try to move us there.
On the clinical side with respect to healthcare patients and our 830 000 patients there for whom we provide true population health management care individual-by-individual but also across the entire population if you look at 2014 HEDIS clinical metrics California our largest legacy market we once again exceeded the Medicare fee-for-service benchmark on all metrics and we were four or five star across all MA patients on eight of the nine HEDIS metrics that are directly applicable to providers.
So the clinical outcomes for both Kidney Care and HealthCare Partners compared very favorably to national averages which means healthier patients higher patient satisfaction and savings to taxpayers.
But now back to those solid results.
In Kidney Care that translated into $409 million NOI and HealthCare Partners $72 million.
Jim Hilger will elaborate on the Kidney Care numbers but I'll just provide a couple of highlights.
The biggest good news is that our commercial mix and our rates both went up a bit.
The biggest bad news is that our NAG our non-acquired growth went down.
The commercial mix number is particularly significant in that it shows that up to this point at least exchanges are not hurting us as we continue to hold our commercial prices constant for this commercial segment in our mind.
And one reason we're able to do that is because more and more payers are paying more and more attention to the total value proposition which is to say our ability to reduce hospital rates to reduce cost of care in other areas continues to grow as a factor in determining the prices for the core treatment itself.
Now on to HealthCare Partners solid performance.
But there were some one-time favorable and unfavorable items so you shouldn't actually take the $72 million as the normalized number.
Better to think of it as normalized at about $65 million which is in line with our annual guidance after some of those one-time puts and takes.
On the business development front in HealthCare Partners we are getting better.
We have actually added full-time folks in the last few months the first time since we did the deal.
We are not satisfied yet but we're getting to be pretty darn competitive.
We're in some high potential conversations and our status as the leading independent medical group in America is one that puts us in incredibly good position for some of the high-quality conversations we're having.
Separate from thinking about potential transactions we are sitting at an MA lives numbers that is 8.3% higher than the same time last year.
So very nice growth stream underneath those numbers.
Moving on to guidance for the balance of 2015 or for the total of 2015 depending on how you want to look at it our enterprise guidance is now $1.825 billion to $1.925 billion.
What this means is we raised the bottom end of Kidney Care guidance by $25 million.
It's consisting of Kidney Care being $1.6 billion to $1.65 billion and HCP being $225 million to $275 million.
If I were to step back for a moment and just comment on our outlook we have two strong business positions both enjoying some steady unit growth each with reasonably stable economics although there is always some to-ing and fro-ing and we are investing significantly for our future in improving our value proposition in ways that others will matter.
And then specifically with request to HealthCare Partners we're continuing to make very good progress in creating a highly differentiated physician experience a highly differentiated patient experience and more of a growth capability outside of the historical markets.
I'll now turn it over to Jim Hilger.
Thanks Kent.
Starting with Kidney Care our Kidney Care operating profits increased $38 million sequentially driven primarily by three main positive factors: number one higher number of treatment days in the quarter; number two improved revenue per treatment due to improved commercial mix and commercial rates; and three lower payroll taxes.
These positive factors were partially offset by higher dialysis pharmaceutical expenses driven by higher average unit costs in the quarter and increased losses in our strategic initiatives in the international business.
Our non-acquired dialysis treatment growth was 3.7% normalized in the quarter.
This was the lowest in quite some time.
While there was no single cause for this decline in our NAG some of the reasons include higher mistreatments during the flu season earlier in the year and efforts to improve the profitability of our acute business.
This has put  we have been putting a tighter screen on our new and existing relationships and in some cases exiting some hospital relationships where rates were too low to be sustainable.
As an example we recently lost a hospital chain acute service contract to a competitor because we were not willing to accept the low rates the hospitals offered.
These efforts have improved acute revenue per treatment and OI but have had an adverse impact on our growth.
Now moving to G&amp;A G&amp;A in our dialysis business was down from Q1 by about $2 per treatment driven by seasonal declines in payroll taxes and the more treatment days in the quarter and also higher-levels of legal and consulting spend that occurred in the first quarter.
Please note that due to this higher legal spend in the first half of the year we anticipate dialysis G&amp;A per treatment to be slightly above last year's levels.
International losses were $15 million in the quarter which includes an asset impairment of $4 million.
Including this non-cash charge we now expect international losses in 2015 to be close to $50 million.
Moving now to the overall enterprise our debt expense was $104 million in the second quarter which is a good run rate for debt expense in future quarters.
Our income attributable to non-controlling interests was $37 million.
Next the effective tax rate attributable to DaVita HealthCare Partners in the second quarter was 39.2% after excluding the $8 million tax adjustment related to the finalization of the Vainer settlement.
We expect the full-year tax rate for 2015 to be in the range of 39% to 40% again excluding the impact of the Vainer settlement.
And during the quarter we repurchased $14 million in stock but none subsequent to our last earnings announcement.
Turning to cash flow we continue to generate strong cash flows.
Our operating cash flow was $335 million in the second quarter excluding the after-tax impact of payments made in connection with the Vainer settlement.
And we now expect our 2015 operating cash flow to be between $1.6 billion and $1.75 billion again excluding the Vainer settlement.
As always this guidance range captures the majority of probabilistic outcomes but we could be above or below the range.
And with that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from Mr.
Kevin Fischbeck.
Your line is now open.
Hi yes this is Steve Baxter filling in for Kevin.
I wanted to ask about the proposed managed care consolidation.
I wanted to  the plans have largely talked about this enabling them to drive a shift towards value-based payment models.
Do you think this could help move markets that are traditionally more fee-for-service kind of down the value chain? And I guess how do you think about this as impacting HCP down the line? Well we hope what they're saying is true.
But directionally we think this kind of additional consolidation of market share is an unambiguous negative.
Hopefully for us because of where we sit with respect to our value proposition on both sides of the house we can make some lemons out of  make some lemonade out of the lemon.
But we worry a lot about what that combination or those combinations can mean for network adequacy and access for consumers as well as rates for consumers.
So we have a lot of concern and we'll do the best we can.
And hopefully there will be some opportunities created particularly for us.
Okay.
That makes sense.
I definitely see how you could perceive it as a negative on the dialysis side but do you see it that way for HCP as well? Absolutely.
In general that kind of increased consolidation just leads to more market pricing power and leveraging rate power which often then if successful doesn't flow through to the consumer because of the market pricing power.
So we hope that it will create market-specific opportunities for us because we think some of those folks do want to move to a more value-based world.
But the dominant the dominant directional effect is one that is scary both from the rate to consumer side and the leverage over provider side.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Gary Lieberman.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon and thanks for taking the question.
You'd mentioned that I guess the pharmaceutical costs being up in the quarter were one reason that impacted profitability.
I guess going back to the Investor Day you had made some fairly vocal comments in terms of I guess what your thoughts were in terms of pricing for Epogen as new competition came to the market.
Fresenius discussed moving a number of patients to Mircera.
And so I just wanted to get your updated thoughts on where you thought the pricing was headed and if you had any conversations that maybe you could share with us? There haven't been any significant developments since the last call Gary.
We still have our hopes for how competitive market forces will unfold in that sphere.
But there's been nothing noteworthy that's actually happened yet nor did we expect anything noteworthy to happen within this timeframe.
But I don't know if Jim or LeAnne would want to add anything.
No I think that's pretty much it Gary.
Okay.
So I guess the assumption that we should be working under would be that you would need to sort of see perhaps Hospira's drug come to market before there is enough of a dynamic in the market to bring down pricing? Well certainly I think my response would just be pretty generic.
The more people that come to market the better and we'll do everything we can to encourage it as will other people.
And at the same time of course we have a lot of respect for the clinical efficacy of what we use right now.
But certainly the more the merrier the sooner the better.
Okay.
And then to follow up on the comments about the lost hospital business and I guess some competition on price can you give us any more color on that? Was that a large national player that competed on price or a local provider? On the spectrum it was a lot closer to the large size than the small size.
And it was a significant account and it went for a price that we would not agree to and it wasn't that difficult a decision.
So it's just important that shareholders know that there is some of those pressures out there and so you can worry about them at the same time that we are.
Should we be more worried about them? I mean do you see that increasing or do you sort of see this as an aberration? Don't know.
Okay all right.
Thanks very much.
All right.
Thanks Garry.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Margaret Kaczor your line is open.
Hi good afternoon everyone.
Couple of questions from me.
First as we think about the non-acquired dialysis patient growth as we go over the next several quarters is that 3.7% treatment growth similar to the patient growth? And then in terms of the lower growth how can we attribute it between two buckets you had mentioned the higher mistreatments versus the lower increase in the acute business? Let me handle the second one first.
We're not breaking it out because it's just a single quarter and there is a fair amount of noise in the data and so both factors are material.
And there's some other stuff that play as well only we didn't want to break it into four pieces five pieces six pieces.
And so I think for the quarter at least we'll just keep it at letting you know what a couple of the bigger drivers were and that's as much as we can say now and in each case that effect may continue.
As to the outlook going forward we hope we can do better than how we did this quarter but right now we can't guarantee that.
Okay.
And then you guys had mentioned that the commercial mix had increased.
As we look at your guidance what do you include in terms of the commercial mix? Are you expecting that to continue to increase as we go on throughout the year or stay pretty stable with where you are today? Unfortunately on that one it's another answer we don't know.
Certainly there has been a nice trend now for a number of months that's comforting.
But we watch each and every month their earliest minute we can to see what happened to that number.
And at this point we're not willing to predict that it's going to keep going up but we sure hope so.
Okay.
But you're not assuming that it continues to go up in the guidance that you've got it out right now your operating income? I think in this case our operating income guidance we had never specified exactly what we were presuming on commercial mix.
And we're not changing whatever we had in there.
So there is no change to our guidance driven by what's happened with mix.
And then probably the right way to think about it is the movements we've had on mix to be either consistent with whatever forecast we had or move this up within the range of guidance that we have.
Okay.
And I hate to sneak one more in but if I could Kent now that you've got HCP and then you guys have kind of gotten your hands wet in different models.
You're increasing the biz dev group expanding the business.
What have you guys learned in terms of what deals are more or less accretive versus kind of the initial expectations when you had acquired HCP? And is there a model in which you've narrowed in on that's maybe more beneficial for you guys to pursue more aggressively? Thank you.
A very fair question.
I think what we like most is investing in growth in our legacy markets.
And that's consistent with what we said we would like a couple of years ago and we continue to like that that's through organic growth and tuck-in acquisitions and things like that.
Second we really like buying quality medical groups.
We're partnering in some serious capacity with major medical groups like we did in Colorado Springs and as we are in a few conversations as we speak.
So that's probably our second favorite option for growth.
And then third and finally we still have a lot of excitement around our payer joint venture in Philadelphia with IBC.
And for those in general and for our health system partnerships as we have with Centura in Colorado but we continue to emphasize that that is R&amp;D these are new types of arrangements and will take some time to emerge.
So we're positive on them.
But at this point if we had to rank the kind of risk-adjusted timing-adjusted attractiveness of different segments of growth we'd put good old legacy markets and partnering with major medical groups at the top.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kevin Ellich.
Your line is open.
Hey Kent thanks for taking the question.
I jumped on late so I apologize if I missed some of this.
I just wanted to talk ESCOs If you've covered it already I can go back and check the transcript.
But what's your thought  we've heard ESCOs being delayed.
Is that something that you guys have considered? And I guess what's your thoughts going forward with that program? On ESCOs a couple of things.
Number one they haven't started yet.
Number two we don't know when they will start.
Number three we're working very collaboratively with CMS to get the design buttoned up.
And the good news is we and a lot of other people in the community and a growing number of people in CMS are quite positive.
But to go any further than that would just be speculating and not a good use of your time.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time we don't have any further questions on queue.
I will go ahead and add one other comment operator.
I'm sorry I didn't catch your name at the top of the call.
But I may have been a little bit off in one of my comments a moment ago.
We're not quite expansive enough that we had provided guidance previously at our total treatment growth would be in the 4.5% to 6% range and we're still comfortable with that expectation.
Operator are there other questions? Yes sir.
We have another question from Mr.
Gary Lieberman.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking the follow-up.
Didn't want you guys to get off that easy.
Just wanted to maybe go back to some of your comments on HCP and the growth and kind of what you're seeing and what your expectations are for additional deals you might do this year? And I'm sorry I may have been talking over you at the beginning telling you that we're going to get revenge for your provoking the question period but prolonging it.
I look forward to that.
But on HCP we were in some high-potential promising conversations.
Having said that none of them are going to close quickly.
If we succeed it will be a very exciting beginning of our next chapter.
But it's not going to happen in the next couple of months.
And so I think there's nothing dramatic we can say about what will close or not close this year.
All I can say is we are very substantively engaged with some groups that we really like.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Lisa Clive.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Just a question on your VillageHealth program.
You started your prepared remarks with some interesting statistics on that.
Could you remind us how many patients you have within VillageHealth? And I'm assuming the vast majority or almost all of them are Medicare Advantage.
Could you give us some idea of what proportion of your total Medicare Advantage patient population are currently going through VillageHealth? The definition of VillageHealth that we're using now is a broad one which is to say the number of patients where there's some form of value-based payment.
And so using that broad definition which in its most extreme form is global capitation and we have a nice chunk of that both in the Kidney Care side and on the HealthCare Partners side.
And then down to having some kind of performance bonuses shared savings arrangements with individual payers or health systems.
And so that total number of patients where we're in some form of value-based payment is about 20 000.
So it's significantly higher than what it was a few years ago.
And is that  yeah because I remember I mean the last time I looked at the numbers I thought it was more like 9 000.
Is that largely because you've included those categories where it's not a sort of full capitation model and so could we assume that half of that 20 000 they're sort of less than full capitation? Well more than half.
The I don't know if we've disclosed the amount of globally capitated ESRD patients we have but it's probably in the neighborhood of 1 800 or so which is probably significantly more than anyone else but that gives you a sense of the mix.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you Lisa.
At this time we don't have any questions on the queue.
I'm sorry operator what did you say? At this time we don't have any further questions on queue sir.
We'll hold for about 10 seconds or so just to give folks a chance.
This is perhaps the most uneventful quarterly call we've had in 16 years.
And so we will work hard to hopefully make the next one just as uneventful and hopefully positive for everyone involved.
Thank you very much for your interest in DaVita.
Operator are there any other ones? No questions on queue sir.
Okay.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you.
So that concludes today's conference call.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
And now I will turn the call over to Mr.
Jim Gustafson.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Cindy and welcome everyone to the DaVita HealthCare Partners' Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations.
And with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Jim Hilger our Interim CFO and Chief Accounting Officer; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'll start with our forward-looking disclosure statement.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.
For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Our forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I will now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Jim and thanks to all of you for your interest in our enterprise.
In the third quarter we had solid  strong results in both Kidney Care and HCP.
But as always we'll talk about clinical outcomes first as that is what comes first we are first and foremost a caregiver company.
We have about 177 000 patients in the U.S.
now and that's about 35% of the total dialysis patients.
97% of those patients had a Kt/V of 1.2 or greater; 73% of those patients have fistulas placed for their access for the second year in a row DaVita is the clinical leader in the CMS Five-Star ratings system.
46% of our centers are Four-Star or Five-Star rated compared to 23% for all other providers truly noteworthy.
HealthCare Partners we continue to take care of over 800 000 patients on a globally capitated basis and several hundred thousand others on a fee-for-service basis.
To give you another snippet of clinical information from HealthCare Partners using the 2014 HEDIS results in Florida one of our three legacy markets we once again exceeded the Medicare fee-for-service benchmark on all metrics and we are Four-Star to Five-Star across all MA patients on all nine HEDIS metrics that is outstanding.
If you stare at these and other numbers you see that the clinical outcomes for both Kidney Care and HCP compare very favorably to national averages healthier patients healthier patient satisfaction savings to taxpayers that's the result.
Onto operating performance.
On the HCP side $83 million NOI that number is a bit misleading in that it includes the net benefit of $22 million from the recognition of some risk-sharing settlement that we do not expect to recur that was real money that we earned but it shouldn't have been centralized or concentrated in this particular quarter but certainly very good news and even independent of that a solid operating quarter.
The big news on the HCP side as many of you already know is the announced combination of DaVita HealthCare Partners with the Everett Clinic.
The Everett Clinic is one of the most respected multi-specialty practices in America with a strong primary care focus more than 350 physicians currently and we and they believe there is wonderful potential for highly robust growth in their market in the years to come.
Already they take care of over 300 000 patients that's mostly fee-for-service today but there is especially strong interest in that geography by all parties to work with it and moving further down the value versus volume spectrum we look to close in early 2016 and we're awfully excited.
The balance of the business pipeline is strong I'll leave it at that unless people want to talk during Q&amp;A.
On the Kidney Care side operating income on the other hand was adversely impacted  affected by a non-recurring incident $23 million reserve for refunds related to prior reimbursements received by our DaVita RX pharmacy business.
So we had a $22 million non-recurring pickup on one side a $23 million non-recurring hit on the other side.
So the net is the quarter is the quarter but it's got those puts and takes.
Our non-acquired dialysis treatment growth was 3.5% usually I don't cover that I'm covering it this time because it was the lowest in some time a lot of different causes just discuss a few of them we've referred to some hospital contracting changes as of the last quarter or two that continues to impact our numbers.
We're also experiencing significant delays in some states where we are more concentrated than others.
Due to delays in state certification and other regulatory issues we have nearly doubled the number of de novos awaiting certification compared to the same time last year.
And in addition so far this year we're not picking up any tailwind in terms of treatment growth from decreasing mortality.
Nonetheless we still expect total treatment growth over the intermediate term to remain between 4.5% and 6% as we have previously discussed at our Capital Markets Day although we could be a bit below this year.
And we expect non-acquired growth to remain between 3% and 4.5% although the near term is likely to be at the lower end of that.
Overall 2015 guidance  enterprise guidance is now $1.87 billion to $1.915 billion.
In Kidney Care we are raising the guidance just slightly operating income from $1.63 billion to $1.655 billion now.
In HCP we are tightening the range operating income expectation of $240 million to $260 million.
We're not giving quantitative 2016 guidance at this time we'll be doing that  that type of 2016 guidance on the Q4 call but we do want to provide some directional guidance for both HealthCare Partners and for Kidney Care.
On the HCP side we have two definite earnings headwinds and one potential earnings headwind.
Number one is a definitive headwind in the form of reimbursement cuts.
And these have been previously discussed for the most part a net $50 million hit in MA reimbursement because of the completion of the 100% move to the new HCC model which has been previously disclosed and that number discussed.
In addition we expect about $20 million in Medicaid cuts as the State of California adjusts for the data on the Medicaid expansion population that came in earlier in the program and them settling that out at this time.
The second earnings headwind is actually we intend to make good news for the long term which is some significant infrastructure and next-generation investments on the HCP side.
We're at the point now where we can execute in these kinds of strategic moves with more confidence.
The biggest chunk of that is on the IT and technology side everything from improving the point-of-care information for our delivery system significantly improving the depth and breadth of our mobile applications significantly enhancing our website presence and features both for internal use and external use and when we talk about external we're talking about IPA physicians we're talking about brokers we're talking about patients significant improvement in our data mining capability in our clinical data warehouse improvements in patient scheduling things like that.
The second largest area of increased investment will be in compliance legal.
The  one of the other large ones is in increased physician recruiting as our growth potential continues to unfold but the general title is a lot of infrastructure and next-generation investment.
Now one would reasonably want to ask for a lot of rigorous discussion of any such investment and at our Capital Markets Day we will provide just that and we intend to do Capital Markets in the first half of the year.
The third headwind is the potential headwind which is the potential of the non-renewal of a payer contract due to the fact that right now the rate offer is unacceptable.
We hope it doesn't happen as it will cause significant patient and employer disruption but it could but that's a potential.
Now the good news to weigh against those two real headwinds for next year and the one potential headwind for next year is our expectation of continued strong performance in our legacy markets.
If you look over the last three years the growth in our MA population in those legacy markets has been 15% on a CAGR basis.
And if you eliminate the MA rate reductions on the RAF model side on the HCC model side then the CAGR of EBITDA growth in the last few years is approximately 4% or so.
So without those headwinds we would be looking at some more favorable numbers.
Nevertheless when you put all that together the net is that 2016 OI in HCP is likely to be lower than 2015 stepping back from that one year fact our investment thesis still stands.
We have a strong and substantial foundation where we are good at doing at scale what others want to be good at and we are working hard to enhance the team and value proposition as we move forward.
On the dialysis front I think we can be quite concise that it would be a year with the typical puts and takes in terms of upsides and downsides if not for the fact that our Medicare reimbursement will be near-flat and that's just a difficult headwind to overcome on that side as so many of you know.
A few words on capital deployment from an enterprise perspective perhaps three points: point number one in the quarter we did significant capital deployment with substantial acquisitions in both U.S.
Kidney care and HealthCare Partners and we also did significant share repurchases as our earnings press release reflected; The second point is we still have a healthy cash balance and continue to generate strong cash flows; and the third and final point is that we look forward continuing to deploy that cash over the next several quarters in the same way that we deployed that capital in this past quarter evaluating the relative opportunities on an ongoing basis.
Now I hand it over to Jim Hilger our Chief Financial Officer who will walk through some more details and some of the numbers.
Thanks Kent.
Starting with Kidney Care operating profits increased $17 million sequentially.
This includes the increase in refund reserves recorded in Q3 at DaVita Rx.
This improvement is driven primarily as a result of two main positive factors: one an additional treatment day in the third quarter; and two solid cost management of both patient care costs and G&amp;A expense with each down over $1 per treatment in the quarter as compared to Q2.
International losses were $15 million in the quarter and this is consistent with the last quarter.
We continue to expect international losses in 2015 to be close to $50 million.
Now on to the overall enterprise.
Our debt expense was $103 million in the third quarter which is a good run rate for debt expense in future quarters.
Our income attributable to non-controlling interests was $46 million.
We expect non-controlling interests to be slightly lower in Q4.
Next the effective tax rate attributable to DaVita HealthCare Partners in the third quarter was 40.5%.
We expect the full-year tax rate for 2015 to be in a range of 39% to 40% excluding the impact of the Vainer settlement.
Also we purchased $341 million of our common stock in the third quarter which brings our total year-to-date repurchases to $425 million and 5.6 million shares.
As you think about modeling the fourth quarter here's a few things to keep in mind: Q4 is typically the weakest OI quarter of the year for HCP and dialysis G&amp;A tends to increase in the fourth quarter.
Both of these are factored into our full 2015 operating income guidance.
Now turning to cash flow we continue to generate strong cash flows.
Operating cash flow was $679 million in the quarter.
We now expect 2015 operating cash flow to be between $1.675 billion and $1.775 billion.
This range excludes the approximately $300 million after-tax impact of the Vainer settlement.
Please note that the strong cash flows in 2015 are borrowing a bit from the 2016 operating cash flows due to the timing of cash tax payments and other working capital items.
As always this guidance range captures a majority of probabilistic outcomes but we could be above or below this range.
And with that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
Operator? Yes.
I'm sorry.
I was on mute.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question is coming from Mr.
Kevin Ellich.
You may begin.
Hey.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Hey Kent just wanted to start off could you talk a little bit about  you named a bunch of headwinds? And also the $22 million of risk sharing settlement for HCP.
Just wondering if you'd give us a bit more color on that how we should think about that if that is (0:15:35) kind of a one-time item? Okay.
When you  you're referring to the $22 million positive pickup? Yes.
That's right.
Yeah.
Jim why don't you go ahead and cover that? Yeah Kevin that amount is  did occur  let me start over.
That amount covers multiple periods not just all in this quarter and it was out of trend.
That's why we call it out.
I wouldn't expect the same level of impact in future periods.
It was a positive development in large part after a whole lot of back and forth between us and their payer where the payer agreed that we actually deserved additional revenues and settled up in one fell swoop.
Great.
And then I know you guys have the non-acquired treatment growth has been a little bit lower and you called out a number of things Kent.
How long do you think this will persist and when do you think we'll see normalized growth kind of back in the 4% to 4.5% range? Thanks.
Yeah.
It's the right question Kevin and I'm unfortunately going to disappoint you in the answer which is it's not clear.
We know as we've continued to prune our hospital portfolio that we'll put that behind us and then the year-over-year comparisons will start to be different than the way they look right now.
But the certification and regulatory delays are very hard to predict and particularly in places like California where we have a lot of centers and a lot of centers waiting to be built and/or certified and/or occupied where we're really getting hurt.
And if we were more adept in this area in terms of predicting we would have told you ahead of time that it was going to happen and clearly we didn't tell you ahead of time.
And then on the mortality front we've done so well over the last four years five years six years in a row and this plateauing was not something we expected.
And so we at the same time or in the same way are not good at saying what's going to happen over the next year to that trajectory.
So in two out of the three that I mentioned and then there's a few other drivers that just aren't worth going into but as you can see in two out of the three that I did mention we just don't have the ability to predict unfortunately.
Great.
Thank you.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Next question please operator.
Yes.
Our next question is coming from Mr.
Matt Borsch.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Just directionally it seems that you would still be pointing to the Kidney Care side having positive operating income growth for 2016.
Can you comment on that? We actually are not commenting on that and we only wanted to comment on HCP because we felt there might be a growing gap in the perception what was likely to happen because you couldn't have insight into how aggressive we intend to be in terms of infrastructure investments and next-generation investment reflecting a real bullishness on how differentiated we could be a few years downstream.
And so because of that we said gee there is no reason to wait because we know we're going to do it.
It's not dependent on any intervening development.
And we know we're going to have to do a lot of explaining and we're eager to do that explaining.
But absent that we just felt it's not appropriate to go into further quantify guidance at this time.
Let me back off if I could and just ask a high-level question.
As we think about the HCP model and certainly I think there's a very compelling case that the physician-led delegated model is  has historically and will continue to outperform the hospital-centric model.
But if you look at the markets where in essence you're competing with the hospitals for the hearts and minds of physicians do you think what the hospitals are doing I'm sure it varies by system but is it real here or in most cases we really haven't gotten into real risk taking in a lot of these markets? It's upside-only bonuses and window dressing and bells and whistles around HCOs.
I just want to get your sense of your assessment of the hospital systems and what they're really doing on integration.
Well let me grope around here for a minute and then we can see where you want to take it Matt.
First of all not surprisingly the answer differs a lot by institution that some are far more committed far more adept have been working on it for far longer allocate more talent and capital.
And those entities are doing some real stuff real population health management really bending the cost curve.
That is a small minority of the overall pool.
A lot of other folks are acquiring practices and recruiting doctors where  with 85% of the motivation being to just secure their referral flow.
And they are not making the tough decisions and tough investments associated with actually getting very good at that.
And so for us however in either case we look at it with a fresh set of eyes.
Some hospitals and health systems are becoming great partners to us.
And we will work with them to succeed in both population health management and fee-for-service at the same time.
In other cases we are in fact competing with hospitals as they speak to move down the path or just try to gain control of their referral flows.
So for us whether health system is really committed and getting good at it or actually not committed is independent of our decision of who is friend or foe and sometimes it's kind of in the middle.
Okay.
No that's great.
I'll get out of the queue.
All right.
You're welcome back as always.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question is coming from Mr.
Kevin Fischbeck.
Your line is open.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Can you just explain a little more what the pharmacy item was? It's just a case where we had built for some items and we got paid for them.
And as part of our normal compliance reviews we uncovered that.
We should not have been paid for them or paid the wrong amount I'm not going to know all the details.
And so we went back in time identified all those instances and in some cases I think going back four years five years and maybe payments to the government.
But because we did it in one fell swoop across three different issues going back in time it added up to a pretty significant number and so we felt we better carve that out and let you know.
Okay.
And I guess when you gave the guidance on HCP you didn't mention there is a tailwind to deal  that you guys have been pretty active on the deal time to  you've obviously been ramping up some de novo starts.
And I guess there was some thought that Arizona and New Mexico would start to look better next year.
So just wanted to see directionally are those things not going to be contributing into next year or how do we think about that? Yeah.
Very fair question.
And the problem with the business model is A) right now some of these assets are expensive because so many people would like to have them as their partner; and B) in many instances they one  step one is actually to add expense to start building the capability and start negotiating the contracts that are going to lead to the incremental value and the incremental profit.
But it means you're adding expense before you're adding revenue with positive contribution margins and it takes time to get some of the contracts and execute.
So while a number of those different investments we've made are right on plan those plans are not going to contribute any significant incremental profit in 2016.
And in cases like the Everett Clinic which has a long track record of strong operating performance nonetheless the growth opportunity is so substantial we are eager with them to invest to go pursue that growth opportunity.
But in the short term that means a bunch of expense.
So we understand that it's our responsibility to delineate this with good conceptual and analytical rigor at the Capital Markets Day.
In the meantime the net number is nothing to get excited about from a short-term profit point of view.
Okay.
I guess that makes sense.
What about the Arizona and New Mexico I thought those were kind of on a multi-year kind of a rebuild? Yeah.
I think our policy is not to go through every individual market on every call.
What I can tell you is that if you look at our sort of portfolio of new markets and joint ventures some which are two-years-old some are one-year-old some are six-months-old that the 2016 versus 2015 results in aggregate are going to be about the same and that's a mix of  of some moving into profitability some moving into bigger losses and everything in between.
But the portfolio is basically a non-story in terms of helping or hurting 2016 versus 2015.
Okay.
And then I guess maybe last question.
If the CMS reg was finalized I just wondered (0:26:13) your interpretation of the provisioning there to kind of include drugs more quickly into the bundled rate.
I think there's been some hope that as EPO goes generic there can be notably a period of time where you guys benefit from the lower cost drug for a while it seemed like what TLS was trying to do is trying to narrow that window.
And so I just want to understand your interpretation of that and then also if in fact Amgen waits a while to match and one of the drug that's currently out there starts to get used a little bit is that going to put you  is that a headwind potentially into 2017 I guess? Yeah.
Let me turn that one over to LeAnne.
Yeah.
Well there was a couple of questions in there.
So let me adjust restate what CMS is doing.
One they have categories which they have identified for when a drug or a service would be new and so how that would come into the bundle.
And number two as you're specifically referencing I think the introduction of IV Sensipar they have accepted the industry's recommendation that that product be outside of the bundle for a transition period which time that they will be to able to establish the cost and clinical efficacy et cetera of that product and then as they suggest that that period be a minimum of two year.
After such period both that product as well as the oral equivalent will come into the bundled payment system.
They don't go through much more detail than that or a little bit more detail but I'm sure we look forward to working with them over the next couple of years through the detail implementation.
I'm not sure if that answers your question but if you want to be more specific I can certainly provide a little more data.
No that's definitely helpful.
I guess the generic biosimilar could a biosimilar EPO gets thrown into that same...
Yeah.
So in the first  in my first statement they have identified categories where a new entrant would just come in under existing payment.
So yes the biosimilars we would expect would be under the bundled payment system when the FDA approval is complete.
Okay.
And they're just going to  weighted average for the use of those drugs versus the average to come up with what the new rate for that drug will be? Yeah.
So remember for the ESRD payment system there is no particular quote rate for any single component of the bundle but it's the bundled payment system.
I haven't thought through for you how non-ESRD clinics would be reimbursed for a product like that.
I can give it some thought and certainly get back to you.
Sure.
Okay.
No that's helpful.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question is coming from Mr.
Gary Lieberman.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon and thanks for taking my question.
I guess the first question on the HCP expenses for the infrastructure and investments.
The way you were speaking it sounds like most of that's going to be expensed.
Is there some portion that would be capitalized or are you still trying to figure out how much of that would get capitalized versus the expense? Some will be capitalized but not a big percentage.
Okay.
And so I guess excluding the sort of some of those upfront investments you didn't say specifically but sort of insinuated that operating income would be positive without that? Is that a fair statement? Well let's see.
What I did say was that because of the expected headwinds netting against the organic growth et cetera that we expect OI to be down.
I actually  trying to do all the math in my head without the investments I can't answer your question spontaneously.
But in aggregate given the two definitive headwinds and the one potential headwind and given our current sense of organic growth et cetera that we expect the net to be unfortunately one that leads OI to be down 2016 versus 2015 so I realize I just restated what I said earlier but I think I just have to leave it at that.
Okay.
And then maybe on that the third potential headwind is there any more detail you could throw us on that is that a large contract is that somewhere that you've had issues before? I think that would be not in our shareholders' best interest to go into any more detail on an active negotiation.
Okay.
And then maybe turning towards the Kidney Care business and just getting an update on to the extent that that you can give it on your ESA strategy specifically I guess the 10% of the drug that you could use non  not of EPO based under the current contract are you doing any of that or you're thinking of doing any of that? And then also maybe comment on it sounds like Amgen is trying to move some customers to  onto Aranesp to see if you are doing that or what your thoughts are around that? LeAnne do you want to go ahead and take that please.
Can you repeat your question please sorry? Sure.
The  first part of it was is sort of just an update on your ESA strategy and specifically...
Yes.
...the 10% of your contract that you're allowed to use outside of Epogen? And then the second piece of it was any comments or thoughts or anything that you're doing regarding Amgen's apparent move to try to get someone dialysis operators to move to Aranesp as opposed to Epogen? Yeah.
Sure.
We do intend to do a pilot on the long-lasting Micera (0:32:32) agent in 2016 and certainly we do have availability with that 10% to try both a long-lasting agent as well as one other biosimilar for Epogen that would come in and we certainly will consider both options.
As for Amgen-specific actions with respect to moving the industry to Aranesp clearly that seems in some way for them to be competing with the steroids the long-lasting agent and making sure that they have an opportunity for the marketplace to test our product.
We are not presently doing anything significant with Aranesp.
Does that answer your question? Yeah.
I think that answers my question.
And then excuse me really just a follow-up on that (0:32:24) any questions  not any questions any thoughts or comments on the FDA's letter on Retacrit.
No just we've seen what's in the public marketplace the same issue and we wish them the best if they answer the questions with the FDA.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Margaret Kaczor.
Ma'am your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the questions.
So I know you guys don't want to talk about specific kind of partnerships.
But you've seen (0:34:01) you've seen (0:34:02) running at a $500 million run-rate.
And just broadly speaking as we go out until year three year four and year five what should we think of top-line growth rate as well as the profitability profile? And then just to follow up on that as we think of other partnerships that you guys are doing are you expecting a more similar profitability and top-line growth rate? Thanks.
Yeah we are not in the practice of giving that kind of market-by-market guidance.
And even if we were we would hesitate because there is so much uncertainty in exactly how it will unfold.
And we as you know ramped up from nothing to $500 million imputed top line in a very short time and as (0:35:00) going in the markets to the range of outcome over the next year or two is quite wide.
And so we're excited about it and we have a high-quality partnership with the big-positioned IPA and with IVC.
But to go any further would just not be prudent.
There's just two wide a range of outcomes.
Okay.
Great.
And in terms of kind of the NAG growth I know you touched on the impact of acute care contracts and maybe those patients coming in.
But can you give us any kind of clarity in terms of what the chronic non-acquired treatment growth was in the quarter? I'll have to turn to my partner here I don't know if it's a number we've disclosed before or not.
We have not done that in the past but we'll let us reflect on it given our NAG is down and that's one of the reasons it's a very fair question.
So let us reflect and maybe starting next quarter we'll put it out.
Okay.
And then I'll sneak one more in if I could.
In terms of kind of the delays  the regulatory delays in opening some clinics do you expect that to move into different states as well? Are you prepared for that? And is it just you guys that are maybe seeing some of these delays or competitors as well? Thank you.
We think everybody is experiencing the same delays on that front.
However we have a significantly higher percentage of our de novas in some of the states that are the slowest right now California being prominent among them.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you Margaret.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Mr.
(0:36:43).
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
With regard to Everett you commented that it serves mostly a fee-for-service population and that you hope going forward it becomes more of a value-based enterprise.
How do we move from sort of the fee-for-service model today to where you want to be in the future? And is that primarily going to come in the Medicare Advantage space or commercial partnered with hospitals or how do we think about the conversion there? Thanks.
Got it; three points.
Point number one we think good multi-specialty groups can make significant contribution margins in a fee-for-service world as Everett Clinic and others have demonstrated.
So we never want to confuse profitability as being only the result of having globally capitated contracts that  it's our premise that exactly the opposite is true especially when we start partnering with a group and they have more access to capital to do some of the things that are quite leveraged even in a fee-for-service world.
Second that the  one of the powerful levers to pull to enhance the value proposition and profitability of a major medical group is actually to sign some global risk contracts and begin to invest in eliminating waste from this system and improving health.
And then third there's all sorts of less dramatic value-based contracting that can go on in between whether it's shared savings and bonus plans and new market incentives and combined ancillaries and so that the menu of intermediary steps that can be taken with plans in a market or with a health system or with other medical groups is quite long.
And so with the Everett Clinic we're excited because our five-year strategy encompasses accomplished all three of those fulcrums.
Got it.
And then just a follow-up on HCP and you sort of touched on this generally.
But investors I would say have been patient with sort of the business and profitability trends.
And I think a lot of people were optimistic that 2016 would sort of be the inflection year where things generally start to turn for the better.
Clearly some of the things that are going on next year are true business sort of things that will come up other  some of it's going to be discretionary.
I guess what would you say to people that  when should we really start to thinking about an inflection in the investments in the patients really begins to pay off for the shareholders? And I'll leave at that.
Thanks.
Yeah that's the X-hundred million dollar question.
And right now we just can't give a date where that happens although we certainly respect the fact that patients can run thin and it's part of why we look forward so much to the upcoming Capital Markets session where we can spend a significant block of time going through this with more analytical rigor.
I would remind folks that absent the change in the RAF model which certainly we've mis-handicapped but absent the change in the RAF model we would all be sitting here quite content with our margins and returns and their trajectory.
Now that just so happens to be a major issue.
And not to be ignored and government policy can continue to change although that model of course is 100% implemented in the MA program has an awful lot of political support in terms of supporting the benchmark rate.
But we do want to make sure people continue to parse through the impact of that single MA model change from the performance of the legacy market  from the performance of the new market.
And at Capital Markets we'll attempt to do a real good job of parsing through those different components.
And so you can assess whether your patients should be sustained or jettisoned.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question is coming from Gary Taylor.
Your line is open.
Sorry.
Hi.
Good evening a couple housekeeping items first I want to make sure I have correct.
The refund of the pharmacy payments in the ESRD segment that was a revenue item? Yes.
That reduced revenue.
Okay.
And the new revised guidance for consolidated company on operating income the $1.870 billion to $1.915 billion that is versus the $1.421 billion nine-month figure or is that nine-month figure actually being adjusted in some way? People are reflecting and staring at pieces of paper Gary.
So can you go on your next question and...
Sure.
...I'll come back to you later.
Yeah.
On that I guess I'm getting to kind of  I'm trying to understand just the implied fourth quarter operating income which I think is $449 million to $494 million which tied to again kind of your comment sequentially but I just want to make sure I'm apples-to-apples there? And...
Gary.
Yeah.
You said that the year-to-date $1.421 billion that's correct.
Yeah.
That'd be non-GAAP adjusted.
Okay.
And revenue per treatment in Dallas has been stronger year-to-date than we thought I know in the last couple of calls you've talked about commercial mix being kind of a surprising positive trend factor.
Obviously that number was stable sequentially so it couldn't have done  it couldn't have done much maybe the growth year-over-year narrowed a little bit.
So is that the right conclusion commercial mix kind of holding stable with that  that year-over-year improvement Kent? Of the two dynamics one is mixed and of course even small increments and decrements can move the dial.
And I'm trying to remember at what level we were around on the numbers that you've seen.
But if it's a full percentage point which is my memory then...
I think it's right.
...there can be a significant movement within that.
And then second as you know as well as any of us that we're always winning and losing some battles on the payer front in terms of rate negotiation.
And right now we're having a few more victories than defeat in that realm and so some of that  that's  some of that is contributing.
Okay.
Last question just trying to understand a little bit going to the ATP segment capitated number of months down  no actually pure enrollment I think down about 18 500 or a couple of 2% sequentially and down a little bit year-over-year.
I know you call out in your text legacy markets and for months (0:44:43) approximately flat.
So will this include  you've intentionally dropped some membership in some of the newer markets or is that the right conclusion? We do have one of the new markets where we very intentionally dropped a plan that led to a significant drop in membership and that was a good thing for our P&amp;L and for our strategic position.
Now having said that I'm not sure that explains exactly what you're bringing up so let me look around the room here.
Yeah Gary yeah that is the explanation.
It was very conscious and negotiated and has significantly enhanced our P&amp;L.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question is coming from Steven Erito (0:45:38).Your line is open.
I just wanted to follow up on the HCP questions.
I think the keyword was patients and we've been in your stock for a couple of years on in-patient.
Is there any way we could get some outlook prior to the Analyst Day in May? Certainly you guys have made a decision to budget higher expenses.
I'd just like to get an idea of what type of return you're looking for to get on those expenses and not have to wait until April or May of next year? Thank you.
We will think about it.
We are contemplating moving the Capital Markets up relative to last year.
And in addition we're going to give the actual quantitative guidance after Q4.
So I think you'll have two good bites of the apple of getting more information and being able to test it relatively soon.
Am I answering the question or am I missing it? No I think you got it.
That's fine.
And the other questions kind of addressed it so I won't belabor the point.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions.
Okay.
Well thanks everyone for your consideration of DaVita.
And we will do the best we can in the intervening months until we talk again.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the DaVita HealthCare Partners Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
After the discussion we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
And now I'll turn the call over to your host.
Mr.
Jim Gustafson.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you Vin and welcome everyone to our fourth quarter conference call.
We appreciate your continued interest in our company.
I'm Jim Gustafson Vice President of Investor Relations and with me today are Kent Thiry our CEO; Jim Hilger our Interim CFO and Chief Accounting Officer; Vijay Kotte our CFO for HealthCare Partners; and LeAnne Zumwalt Group Vice President.
I'd like to start by noting that during this call we may make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
All of these statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in these statements.
Further details concerning the risks and uncertainties please refer to our SEC filings included in our most recent annual report and subsequent quarterly reports.
Our forward-looking statements are based upon information currently available to us and we do not intend and disclaim any duty to update these statements for any reason.
Additionally we'd like to remind you that during this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our Form 8-K submitted to the SEC and available on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Kent Thiry our Chief Executive Officer.
All right.
Thank you Jim and welcome to all.
This will be a pretty high density call and I'll be covering more topics than normal because of some of the nuances contained therein.
As usual I will first talk about our clinical outcomes because that is what comes first.
Second for each major business unit I'll talk about the operating performance for the quarter year and provide some thoughts on 2016.
Third we'll then step back on each business briefly and on the enterprise overall to try to set the table for our Capital Markets Day coming up on May 18 in New York City.
And then lastly I'll talk about enterprise capital allocation.
So let's launch right in since there's quite a bit to cover.
On the clinical outcome front excellent news once again.
Kidney Care 97% of our patients with a Kt/V of 1.2 or greater 73% of patients with fistulas placed for access.
At our recently final results announced for the CMS QIP program for another year period once again we outperformed the rest of the community with only 1.4% of our facilities facing a penalty compared to 7.1% for the rest of the industry.
Of course no quality rating system is perfect but in rating test after rating test we come out as clinically differentiated.
On the HCP front equally promising results.
With respect to HEDIS clinical metrics we'll just pick Nevada this time.
We try to move it around for you geographically.
And in terms of subject matter we once again exceeded the Medicare fee-for-service benchmark on all metrics and had four-star or five-star across all MA patients on all nine HEDIS metrics.
So in both cases both main sides of the house our outcomes compare very favorably to national averages.
This is good for patients.
This is good for the taxpayer.
Now let's move on to the quarter and the year.
We'll hit HCP first international second Kidney Care third.
HCP operating performance for the quarter $25 million that excluded the estimated write-down.
This was within our guidance range.
On a normalized basis this was actually about $37 million if you normalize for prior-period adjustments et cetera which actually is about exactly the same amount of profit in Q4 of 2014 normalized.
For the full year OI improved as you know from $215 million to $240 million which is also within our guidance although at the low end.
In order to achieve that the legacy markets were up a bit the new markets were up a bit and the combination of those bits was more than enough to make up for the medical cost inflation and some very substantial investments in capability building/G&amp;A.
And Vijay Kotte our new HCP CFO will discuss those investments and capabilities in G&amp;A in more detail in just a few minutes.
But I will say (04:48) move right on to 2016 guidance for HCP.
It is $175 million to $225 million.
There are three primary drivers of that range.
Driver number one $58 million in reimbursement cuts.
This is primarily the result of the new acuity coding RAF model being implemented the final chunk of the way a 100% implemented as of that time.
As previously discussed the HCP was more comprehensive in its coding capture.
Complete diagnosis of patient conditions is a good thing but it also left the entity far more vulnerable to any coding reimbursement compression.
So $58 million from that source most of it the model and the model is now 100% in.
Second big driver of that range is our investment in additional capabilities.
There's two components to this $60 million year-over-year increase.
Component A is really remedial.
Their prior business leadership essentially stopped investing in the company it was working to maximize profitability for the sale either knowingly or unknowingly.
And as a side note just want to remind you that we knew that.
That is why we only paid a six times multiple in a world where other allegedly comparable assets were then going for nine times to 10 times and now much greater than 10 times in the market.
And the second component of that big G&amp;A capability investment is offensive meaning investments that we think are going to create significant competitive advantage for us over time.
The third primary driver is the positive one which offsets a big chunk of those two negative ones.
Solid operating performance good old solid operating performance.
So if you look at the math you have a $58 million hit from essentially the completion of the RAF model.
You have a $60 million hit from the increased investment in G&amp;A half remedial half offensive.
That would equal a $118 million hit.
You then have a $78 million operating performance improvement which offsets all but $40 million of the two negative trends and that yields the change from the $240 million in 2015 OI to the midpoint of the guidance $200 million for 2016.
We can of course take questions on all of that but those are the three primary drivers.
2017 does look better than 2016 the model will be behind us.
We continue to make steady progress on our capabilities and our contracting.
If we put the P&amp;L aside for a moment and look at cash flow and take as a scenario the midpoint of our guidance in other words the $200 million for HCP and simultaneously take the midpoint of our guidance for the total enterprise that $200 million would equal 11% of total enterprise operating income.
However HCP operating cash flow is projected to be over $400 million about 25% of total enterprise operating cash flow.
This happens because of what we've talked about in the past low working capital intensity low CapEx requirements and a $100 million per year hard dollar cash tax benefit.
If we step back for a moment and look back at three difficult years the total reimbursement cut from the implementation of the new RAF model for us $165 million.
What we had anticipated was a much smaller number than that in fact less than half so about $100 million of incremental P&amp;L harm that we had not expected is due to that single variable $100 million.
Now the fact that it came from that does not make it any less painful than if it came from anything else but the important message is it did not come from operating problems or operating issues.
Looking forward instead of backward we have six primary markets; California Nevada Florida New Mexico Colorado and Washington or more particular the Seattle area.
In those primary markets we have six leading independent medical groups.
It is in those places plus our joint venture Tandigm in Philadelphia of course but that is a horse of a different color that is where we'll be placing most of our emphasis in the near and perhaps intermediate term.
Prices are very high right now for valuable properties.
Our bandwidth is pretty stretched given how much we've grown and given how much opportunity we have in those six markets plus with Tandigm.
And then third we need to prove to you that we can get the right returns and margins in a number of those places before we do too many other significant things.
Because of all that it is unlikely we will do any other big Everett like deals unless it is through a capital like transaction or is for a very attractive multiple.
Other good news to take into account and looking forward instead of backward I'll list a few of them each of a different type.
First our legacy markets in 2015 once again outgrew their markets in terms of MA growth.
The markets grew 6% we grew 9%.
Number two we've dramatically improved patient service metrics since the time of the transaction.
Number three we've had a number of significant IT advances that have improved our support for our front line physicians.
We have a long journey there and Vijay will talk about that a little more but we've got some nice early momentum and victories in better supporting our front line physicians.
Number four we've had a number of forecasting and fire period adjustment issues.
You know that painful truth as we do.
Our finance leadership team is literally 90% new.
And fifth and finally in this case if you look at our top 22 executives we have five great veterans with immense amounts of valuable HCP experience and 17 new executives that we think are the right people to help take us into that next chapter going forward.
So that's it on HCP for now although Vijay will come back and talk about some of those capability and G&amp;A investments a little bit later.
So to move on to international we underperformed in 2015 $55 million in losses compared to original $40 million of guidance.
But why? Well we had a $5 million AR reserve which almost entirely came from one country where there were two fiscal intermediaries that became insolvent.
We actually hope to get a bunch of that money back.
We also are $10 million behind plan or were $10 million behind plan in two countries where we built new centers and patient growth was behind plan.
In 2016 for international our guidance is losses of approximately $40 million.
This assumes no unusual AR reserves.
We are experiencing payment delays with the Saudi government.
So that's a washout but we have done nothing on that front now we still expect to receive all of the funds.
And the good news is the Ministry of Health in Saudi is explicitly very happy with our service and very impressed by the patient feedback they have received.
Their words not ours.
In 2017 we anticipate improvement over 2016 on an OI basis and in 2018 in international dialysis in our current country portfolio we expect to achieve breakeven.
We are in fact already in 2015 or we did already in 2015 generate positive aggregate EBITDA at the clinic level in eight out of our 10 countries as we continue to grow and cover our G&amp;A.
And another reference point that gives you a sense of the per country scale in 2014 we had an average of $10 million revenue per country.
2015 an increase of 50% up to $15 million per country.
2016 if we hit our plan will be $27 million in revenue per country.
So you can see that at reasonable margins we are making strong progress in covering the fixed nut of global G&amp;A.
Finally most of our growth internationally has been through acquisition.
Virtually every one of those acquisitions has been competed for with others.
And so these are market valuable assets that real competition wanted to have and our competitors continue to invest in growing internationally as well because of the returns they see.
Now stepping back for a moment with respect to international we are still very bullish on the long-term opportunity both in Kidney Care and other HealthCare services.
Now on to the Kidney Care operating performance.
Once again strong quarter strong year.
Operating income $449 million and then for the year $1.658 billion.
First number was for the quarter of course once again excluding some non-recurring stuff.
Jim Hilger will provide more detail on the numbers.
I'll go right into guidance.
We anticipate in 2016 another solid year $1.625 billion to $1.725 billion.
Of course there's always risk we'll fall short and there's always hope that we will exceed.
This guidance per our normal customs does include the international economics and it also includes the unfortunate fact of flat Medicare reimbursement for the third straight year.
The uncertainty in our 2016 performance as in many recent years centers on revenue and revenue per treatment.
We anticipate our performance in the first half of the year with respect to RPT to be positive but we have a lot less visibility into the second half of the year hence the broadness of the range.
And regarding the strategic initiatives there could be some earnings volatility there.
One reason is ESCOs as you know we have launched and so we incur those costs particularly those extra start-up costs now and we get the shared savings payment later if we perform and the data is correct.
And the second variable are some Rx DaVita Rx renewals.
All of this of course is incorporated into our guidance.
Stepping back now with respect to Kidney Care and looking out three years four years five years there's one big downside and three attractive upsides.
The big downside is what will happen to private pay.
It is unfortunate that we have a large cost shift in our dialysis industry in America with private patients paying a lot more to subsidize the 80% to 90% of our patients that are Medicare and Medicaid.
And when you put that on top of payor consolidation distributed risk pools exchanges and other things going on it would not be prudent to not be nervous about what will happen with private pay.
On the other hand we do have three upsides; one is in the ESA market.
For the long term as many of you know we spend about $800 million per year on ESAs.
We are intensely looking for the right long-term partner or partners and hope to consummate some type of long-term partnership well before the expiration of our current contract at the end of 2018.
Second integrated Kidney Care.
We are very competent at this.
Regardless of who has the risk we think we will be one of the sub-contractors of choice.
And third finally the flat Medicare reimbursement is scheduled to go away at the end of 2018.
In 2019 we hope to be back to our normal market basket.
All-in-all our strategic position in U.S.
Kidney Care is strong.
Now let's step back to the enterprise overall.
The guidance; OI of $1.8 billion to $1.95 billion; OCF $1.55 billion to $1.75 billion.
But on an equally important topic how are we thinking about capital allocation at the enterprise level? Well first with Kidney Care we stay the course and since there aren't a lot of large properties available out there that means they will not use all the cash they generate.
HCP they will focus on existing markets unless something that is capital-light or at a very attractive multiple comes along.
International we will continue to invest to grow.
Putting all three of those together what does our capital allocation look like if you pick something arbitrary like the next three-year period? We will generate in a reasonable scenario  with of course downside risk and upside hope but in a reasonable scenario we will generate operating cash flow of approximately $5.5 billion in the next three years.
If you count normal use meaning our current operating plans business plans et cetera which of course could change we will use about $3.5 billion for those purposes.
This leaves about $2 billion on the side for us to contemplate what to do with with of course your counsel as well as we compare other growth opportunities to debt repayment opportunities to share repurchase opportunities.
Now Vijay Kotte our new CFO of HealthCare Partners will walk through a few more details.
Thanks Kent.
I'll take a few minutes to provide more detail into the investments we're making into the future.
As Kent stated before we are continuing to make both remedial and offensive investments into the business.
The best way to look at these items is to put 2015 and 2016 together.
When you do that we have a total of approximately $80 million in incremental investments over 2014.
To provide more context into these investments I'll put them into three primary buckets.
First we have information technology; second legal and compliance; and third next generation capability and change match.
In the bucket of IT we plan to spend $40 million more in 2016 than we did in 2014.
This includes the following areas.
First security; second applications to support population health; third a community portal to enhance communication between patients and providers; an enterprise data warehouse; our accounting system conversion; and a national IT infrastructure to enable our creation of one company.
Next in the legal and compliance bucket we will invest an additional $10 million to $15 million over 2014.
In our final bucket we're investing approximately $18 million into research and development related to next generation care management capability a team we call Catalyst with applications to our current markets as well as others.
Now Jim Hilger our CFO will walk you through a few more details on the numbers in the quarter.
Thanks Vijay.
First I'd like to point out a couple of non-GAAP items in the quarter.
In the fourth quarter we recorded an estimated accrual of $23 million for potential damages and liabilities in our DaVita Rx pharmacy business.
We have excluded these numbers from our reported non-GAAP income from continuing operations.
A few words about this estimated accrual.
The reserves relate to the period from 2010 through 2015.
As a part of our normal process last spring we initiated an internal compliance review of DaVita Rx during which we identified potential billing and operational issues.
We notified the government in September of 2015 that we were conducting this review of DaVita Rx and began providing regular updates of our review.
Upon completion of our review we filed a self-disclosure with the OIG on February 5 2016 and we have been working to address and update the practices we identified in the self-disclosure.
In addition as disclosed earlier today on February 5 2016 DaVita Rx received a Civil Investigative Demand from the U.S.
Attorney's Office.
The information requested has some overlap with the items we self-disclosed and we do not know if the U.S.
Attorney knew we are already in a process of developing a self-disclosure with the OIG.
At HCP we took an estimated $206 million impairment charge of non-cash goodwill in an intangible asset of certain HealthCare Partners' operating units.
These impairments were driven primarily by underperformance of the business reporting units in recent quarters as well as changes in other market conditions including government reimbursement cuts and our expected ability to mitigate those cuts.
The final amount of these impairment charges will depend upon the final outcome of this valuation work which we expect to be completed in the first quarter of 2016.
This non-cash charge will not impact go-forward performance or our cash taxes.
On to the overall enterprise our debt expense was $103 million in the fourth quarter which is a good run rate for debt expense in future quarters.
Our income attributable to non-controlling interest was $40 million.
Next our effective tax rate for income attributable to DaVita HealthCare Partners in the fourth quarter was 36% and for the year was 38.2%.
And we expect the full year tax rate for 2016 to be in the range of 40% to 41%.
We have also repurchased $151 million of our common stock in the fourth quarter and we also repurchased an additional $249 million in the month of January.
As a result of these transactions we now have approximately $259 million remaining under our current board authorization.
As you think about modeling the first quarter here are a few things that you should keep in mind.
In our Dialysis business Q1 2016 contains one fewer day than this past quarter.
So you should expect lower revenues and higher fixed costs for treatment.
Second our payroll tax caps reset at the beginning of the year which leads to higher costs of a $1 to $1.50 per treatment.
At HCP OI fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter due to the seasonal needs of patients and Q1 tends to be a bit lighter than the full-year average.
Now turning to cash flow.
We continue to generate strong cash flows as operating cash flow was $437 million in the fourth quarter and $1.861 billion for all of 2015 excluding the Vainer settlement.
The strong cash flows in 2015 are borrowing a bit from 2016 operating cash flow mostly due to the timing of cash tax payments and other working capital items.
But despite that we still expect 2016 operating cash flows to be $1.55 billion to $1.75 billion showing that we continue to generate strong cash flows.
As always this guidance range captures a majority of probabilistic outcomes but we could be above or below this range.
And with that operator let's go ahead and open it up for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Mr.
Matthew Borsch with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Yes hi.
Thank you.
Could you maybe just address the areas of operating performance improvement that you're expecting in the HCP business? Maybe just  I don't know if there's any kind of granularity that you're prepared to give at this point whether it's by geography or function.
I'm just curious the types of things that you think are going to be going better this year versus last? Matthew this is Kent.
Thanks for getting on the call.
It's pretty broad-based.
So there's nothing really that jumps out.
There's no dramatic disparity in unit growth or margin enhancement either through MLR improvement or G&amp;A savings or revenue enhancement.
So it's pretty mixed across the portfolio.
And let me ask on a different front still related to HCP.
As you look at things that are potentially for sale and you mentioned prices are high is that still principally because of the major hospital systems that are bidding up? Is it I mean more of the same hospitals? How much is hospitals? How much is managed care versus other? It's certainly health systems bid sometimes breathtaking amounts for these medical groups but we have been surprised by some of the other players including some of the health insurance entities and the offers that they have put on the table as well.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Kevin Ellich with Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Kent I guess just kind of big picture thinking about the guidance which historically you've had a track record of being conservative.
But if you look over the last few years we haven't seen much growth in operating income.
I guess clearly there has been some issues with HealthCare Partners.
But I guess broadly speaking what will it take to get growth reaccelerating? A very fair question Kevin and one that we are pretty intense about on the inside.
On the Kidney Care front with that flat Medicare reimbursement that's just a real problem that we've got to get addressed.
And then hopefully through a new partner or the same partner in a new partnership with ESAs or getting some integrated care runway we can start to break out of the current trend.
On the HCP side of course some of the declines have taken away the Kidney Care gains.
And so if we just stop that and get back to a reasonable steady growth on HCP that together with the normal growth in Kidney Care could start to generate some much more interesting numbers.
And then lastly international is unfortunately just a couple of years away from being able to really help although once it starts helping it could be a long-term big deal.
Got it.
Okay.
And then going back to your comments on Kidney Care and the potential downside and three factors for potential upside.
In the ESA component you said that contract expires in 2018.
Should we expect to see something happen in the next year or two years? We would like to develop the right kind of long term win-win partnership sooner rather than later.
We have the contract we have with Amgen and so if they don't want to do anything new with us we certainly can't force them to.
Having said that there are other people that we can create agreements with that just wouldn't kick in until the day after the Amgen agreement expired.
So our point is pretty simple that we think we can be a great partner for someone for the next five years to 10 years in that area and we're eager to find that party and start working towards that long-term future.
Necessarily even if we got very serious with someone tomorrow these deals are pretty complicated and nothing would be signed for some time.
But that's one of the reasons why we want to start working on them now because it takes a while to put them together.
Is that responsive? It is.
And can you remind us I think in the contract you had the ability for 10% of your ESA supply to come from someone else.
Are you guys testing other options out right now? And if so how's that going? LeAnne you want to talk about that? Certainly.
We do plan to do some pilots over the next year.
Okay.
Will you go with one source or will you try different options LeAnne? Certainly we'll try multiple options.
Okay great.
And then I guess going to hammer going to the share repurchase you guys were very active in January.
I think you said you have $259 million remaining.
Should we expect to see continued share repurchase activity maybe get  are you guys going to go back to the board to get  to re-up the authorization? And even though you don't provide EPS guidance is that part of your outlook for 2016? I'll go ahead and take that one.
We're going to apply the same sort of measured calculus we've always applied looking at the alternative deployments looking at the different scenarios going forward looking at interest rates looking at the stock price.
As the CEO I'm feeling a little sheepish about the fact that we bought back quite a bit when the stock was a fair amount higher than it is today and we would have done more value for  created more value for our long-term shareholders by waiting a little bit as opposed to buying when we were at above historical average EBITDA multiples.
So we bring our normal sort of intellectual calculus to it but certainly we've demonstrated over the last year and certainly many of you were actively engaging and encouraging us too.
Certainly we've demonstrated as we have at different times in our history the willingness to going to the market and take some shares out of play.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Kevin.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Kevin Fischbeck of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi.
This is actually Joanna Gajuk filling in for Kevin today.
Thanks for taking question.
So on HCP guidance and the breakdown on different elements that are impacting the operating income.
Specifically I recall the company mentioned on the last call Medicaid headwinds of $20 million.
So should we assume that you no longer include that headwind or it's just small that you didn't disclose that? What happened is we thought it would be Medicaid of $20 million it turns out the Medicaid is $8 million.
And so when we talked about $58 million $50 million was that RAF model...
Okay got it.
...in Medicare $8 million was Medicaid.
Okay.
That makes sense.
So then I know you mentioned that those headwinds you expect to be offset by a broad I guess based operating improvement.
But are you willing to talk about the legacy market's performance in 2015? I don't know whether specific numbers are up or down or the magnitude of the improvement.
And then what do you think this would be 2016 versus 2015? Right.
In 2015 our legacy markets contributed to the profit growth the OI growth as did our new markets.
So both were contributors to our ability to offset the bad stuff that happened in normal medical cost inflation and our big investments.
In 2016 we anticipate the same that independent of the rate cuts that both legacy markets and new markets will do better than they did in 2015.
Great.
And then just a follow up on your comment around the dialysis business and the pricing that you expect the pricing to be positive in first half but there's less visibility for the second half of the year.
So can you shed a little more light why you think that? It's not because of any particular normal negotiation between us and the payor.
It's just because of all the noise in the air with everything going on with exchanges regulatory ambiguity in those areas what some of the new payors are going to do in terms of getting in and out of exchanges.
So there's just so much going on that we're uneasy increasingly uneasy and we thought we should share that.
So there's nothing specific to cause because I want to say you mentioned something around some specific contracts or I guess maybe that was on the HCP side so maybe that's irrelevant.
And I guess that's all for me now.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
I think you might be referring to the DaVita RX renewals I referred to.
Right.
But that isn't independent point separate from what's going on in mainstream Kidney Care.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ms.
Margaret Kaczor with William Blair.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon guys.
First of all thanks for all the details in terms of where you guys are investing in HCP.
So maybe a question on that.
What impact should we expect these investments to have? I might assume it's better outcomes that are going to lead to these higher patient adds.
But even more specifically over what timeframe should we see the fruits of these investments is it as early as 2017 or is it more 2018 2019 2020? Well Margaret we knew this question was going to come and dreaded it because it's going to be the answer you hate.
It's not going to happen right away.
For example in technology space it'll take a year one to two years to get a lot of that stuff done.
And then the benefit it has does not immediately leap off the P&amp;L.
In terms of our next-gen care management and changed management group that's got some near term upside.
When you're managing $4 billion of medical cost the spending that extra whatever it is $20 million with some new talents with some new analytics and with some new approaches you can get a pretty good payback on that pretty quickly.
But the whole team is so new and the processes we're putting in place are so new that we would just hate to create expectations and then fail.
We're very bullish on the impact they're going to have but it just is not going to be overnight.
Okay.
So maybe to take that even further and I'm sure you'll appreciate this question as well.
You talked about profitability in HCP maybe improving in 2017 and part of that is that the reimbursement cuts from the RAF model go away.
And so that should be if I'm thinking of it right about a $60 million tailwind.
But then are you going to increase investments further in 2017 to offset that? And then also the final bucket in terms of OI performance should that improve in 2017 as Centura and Everett start to have a larger impact? Yeah.
Well you do know us well.
The elimination of the RAF model that's been hanging over our heads that's certainly the elimination of a headwind.
It doesn't lead to a tailwind.
It just leads to the absence of wind which for us right now would feel pretty good assuming that benchmark rate increases would be roughly speaking equivalent to what goes on with medical cost inflation.
And so we do want 2017 OI to be nicely higher than 2016 OI because of the elimination of those headwinds and a lot of the other stuff hopefully kicking in.
But did I miss a part of your question? Yeah.
So the operating performance of Centura and Everett what kind of impact will they have in 2017 and 2018.
Thank you.
On Everett we would also expect 2017 to be better than 2016.
2016 has some integration expenses.
2016 has some adding talent to take on risk pools.
So we have that expense.
We have some additional amortization from the deal.
We have some special additional expenses that exist for the first year or two years of the deal and then go away.
And so we are counting on  we are expecting a nice operating income trajectory at Everett clinic in 2017 versus 2016 and 2018 versus 2017 and 2019 versus 2018.
We have high hopes for the significant growth of the business there.
And then on Centura that is a tougher one.
We certainly expect it to do better in 2017 than 2016.
It really depends on if we get a quality of risk (41:07) contract what the effective date is and then how quickly we can make a difference.
So that one could stretch out a little bit based on the timing of all that.
We're making nice progress but right now there's nothing locked and loaded.
Okay.
Great.
And then just one more from me.
You guys were nice enough to provide kind of the DeNovo clinics that were waiting for regulatory approval last quarter.
How are those looking this quarter and should we expect they're still could be a bolus of clinics that we'll see open in the first half of the year? Thank you.
Yeah.
The DeNovo backlog is still about the same as what it was last quarter but what we're seeing is a much better improvement in opening new clinics.
So that's where we'll see improvement in the first half of the year.
And that person speaking is Patrick McKinnon Chief Financial Officer of Kidney Care.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Margaret.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Gary Lieberman with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
Sticking with HCP for a second is it possible to get some color on Albuquerque maybe just how the recovery has gone on and where it is today versus where it was say a year or two years ago? Boy (42:28) Gary this is Kent Thiry.
I'll handle that.
The difference between a year or two years ago is night and day.
This is just huge orders of magnitude better.
So that's the high level answer.
The operations have been stabilized.
We're in very constructive risk pool conversations with one of the major payors.
We're in healthy collaboration discussions with two other significant health systems.
The leadership has been stabilized.
The management team has been improved.
So there hasn't been any  I mean the numbers are certainly way better than two years but I'm not wanting to represent this as we're on some stunningly steep trajectory of profit improvement but all the fundamentals are better and now we'll see what we can get done in the next couple of years.
Okay.
And then how much of your time are you spending on HCP versus on the Kidney Care business? I spend significantly more time on HCP than on domestic Kidney Care.
Okay.
And then maybe just talking about the self-disclosure and the CID both happening on the same day.
Is that just coincidence or is there something else that we could read into from that? It's just totally coincidence.
Okay.
And then is there any additional color you could give us around it? I don't think so Gary.
We just don't know much yet.
The good news is that through our own internal normal compliance processes we uncovered some issues and we did the right thing in investigating them.
We did the right thing in reporting to the government.
We did the right thing in doing some refunds.
All of these were small dollar issues and transactions that were a tiny tiny percentage of overall transactions.
And we kept the OIG up-to-date along the way as to the work we were doing but not completed and then we send off our formal self-disclosure document.
And then it just so happened that very same day that we got the CID from the Department of Justice and we have no idea if the Department of Justice had any idea that we were already nine months down the track with the OIG.
Okay.
And then I think you said your analysis went back to 2010 and it looks like their inquiry goes back to 2006.
Is there anything to read into that? No I guess it would suggest again that the two things aren't at all linked because clearly they were coming up with their own set of issues and their own set of dates but beyond that we don't know.
As you know in many instances once they decide to take a look they often that first document is very very broad because why not? Okay.
And then on your comments regarding negotiating an ESA contract.
It sounds like  you're talking about it more than I think you had in the past on new contract.
Is there anything tangible you can share with us or any hope that it could get done in the near term? No idea.
This is  we are eager.
I'll be redundant but we are eager to have a long-term partner and a long-term plan and we just think there's a lot of opportunity.
But getting there we'll take either our current partner deciding they want to create the next generation together or doing it with someone else in which case the implementation of course would have to wait.
But the reason we're talking about it more is people are getting more serious because it's just not that far away anymore and $800 million a year and growing is a lot to play with.
And then I guess maybe just last point on that.
Is there anything that you can share with us or that you're aware of of the one short term biosimilar that has been expected to come to market but has not yet? I personally don't think it makes much sense for us to start talking about individual biosimilars and what exactly is going on.
And so LeAnne I don't know if there's anything you'd like to get out on the table.
Anything I do would just be repeating publicly known information.
No Kent I think you answered that correctly.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks very much.
All right.
Thanks Gary.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Chris Rigg with Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my questions.
We're going to get the advanced notice for 2017 MA rates next week and obviously I don't want to  it's hard for you guys to predict what's going to be in there.
But one thing that's been kicked around is potentially adjusting the risk models to better code for duals.
Do you have any thoughts on that particularly if it was budget neutral and if not can you at least give us a sense for within the HCP pool of enrollment how many are duals? Thanks.
Yeah.
Like you observed we don't have any idea what they're going to do and we do believe that currently in Medicare Advantage the sickest people we get under reimbursed for and the healthiest people they over reimburse for.
And for people like us who are not insurance companies and we want to keep the patients we have we do keep them we can't really determine which new ones come to us the current reality works to our disadvantage.
And then with respect to duals in particular while we have a bunch it's impossible to say whether we would benefit materially or not until you know whatever the heck they would do.
Got you.
And then changing gears here just with regard to the seamless payor organization rollout or pilot/fall can you give us a sense for some initial feedback from patients or just anything with regards to that would be helpful.
Thanks a lot.
Is this regarding ESCOs? Yes.
It's just too soon.
But we can tell you that we've been in a globally capitated pilot with CMS for seven years eight years now and it's pretty significant.
There's 800 patients there or so.
And then we have another 800 900 globally capitated patients within our HealthCare Partners universe.
And in general and in particular on the Kidney Care side where the C-SNP plan special needs plan is focused just on these Kidney Care patients it's spectacular.
The patients get extra services.
The doctors have extra support.
The referring doctors get better information.
The nurses get to provide coordinated care.
The patient and family gets support at home.
So I can tell you in our mature other where we're globally capitated it's a spectacular beautiful transparent victory.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Whit Mayo with Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Kent you've discussed in the past your desire to reengage in productive conversations with your Health Plan partners to ensure that your incentives are aligned with their incentives and they treat you as a good partner with the MA rate cuts.
And are there just any developments along the re-contracting front that would be of any interest to us? Yes is the short answer.
I'm not going to get the mix right but if you ask on Capital Markets Day we'll have it.
And Jim Rechtin is not here right now but I'd say a healthy percentage of our renewals end up with a new agreement where our interests are much more aligned.
And that's been true every year.
It's a big shift from what existed before.
And the same statement is true with respect to health systems in hospitals where a very solid percentage of our new contracts there create a lot more alignment than the old ones which were so zero-sum.
So I would say it's steady progress nothing dramatic.
But it's really healthy in reducing downside risk and over the long-term will create some shared upside.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
And just on Renal Ventures I don't think I've heard an update.
Just maybe I should know this but just divestitures FTC and any sense for the contribution this year.
Kidney Care DaVita HealthCare Partners Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is Javier Rodriguez CEO of Kidney Care.
There is no update.
We're still anticipating a Q2 close.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And maybe one last one.
It's just any way to get a sense of the size of DaVita Rx now either by patients or revenue? Boy I don't remember what our historical policy has been.
It has certainly grown.
It is making some money it's not losing money anymore.
And I'm going to have to turn to Jim Gustafson so I don't violate any policy.
Go ahead Jim.
Yeah.
We disclosed we're serving in various capacities 165 000 patients and that includes both internal and external.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks Jim.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Ryan Newman with Promus Capital.
Your line is open.
Hey guys thanks for taking my call.
You spoke a little bit about the softness in some international markets and how other players were attracted to those assets as well.
As well I know you've expanded a little bit in Colombia in Portugal China Germany.
Can you just talk a little bit about where the most softness occurred? Where the most what has occurred? Where the softness conditions existed internationally? Softest conditions? Yeah.
So soft as in...
The worst performance.
Poor performance? Okay.
Thank you.
Sorry for my...
No.
I misworded the question.
I apologize.
I'd say the softest performance from a profit point of view I mean my mind is racing as to how much I should disclose.
Sure.
We've had some profit problems in Colombia.
That probably sticks out as one of the softest.
In Saudi we've been growing a little bit behind plan but the microeconomics appear to be solid.
And I think beyond that I'd have to get into so many nuances.
In China we still put in the R&amp;D category where we're very steadily consistently investing to look for the winning formula.
And we don't have it yet but we're not discouraged.
We've got some stuff that's working there and we have some stuff that's not working and that's kind of the hit rate we expected.
India we know is a long haul kind of thing an immense market.
But we're not ever going to start doing anything big there quickly because the microeconomics are just too tiny.
So there's a little bit of flavor across three or four and I'm probably giving Jim Gustafson a heart attack by providing all this.
Yeah.
That's great.
Thanks guys for the detail and I appreciate your time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time we no longer have further questions on queue.
Well the Capital Markets are May 18.
Correct Jim? Yes.
In New York we're going to nail down the location.
There's a lot to talk about.
We look forward to going into more detail.
We're going to have a longer general session that we normally do so that we hopefully give you a very comprehensive and analytically thoughtful not only reiteration of our strategy but our progress and the right kind of leading indicators to stare at.
So we're looking forward to a real high intensity extended exchange and we'll do our best in between now and then to get through 2016 and start growing again in 2017.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
So that concludes today's conference call.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.