Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Emergent BioSolutions First Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
My name is Anne and I will be your coordinator for today’s call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session following the presentation.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr.
Bob Burrows.
Please proceed sir.
Thanks Anne.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Again my name is Bob Burrows Vice President of Investor Relations for Emergent.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss Emergent BioSolutions financial results for the first quarter of 2011.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Joining me on the call this afternoon with prepared comments will be Fuad El-Hibri our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Don Elsey our Chief Financial Officer.
Additional members of our senior management team will be present on the call for purposes of the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I’m compelled to remind everyone that during the call management may make projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events and the company’s prospects for future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent’s current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
You are encouraged to review Emergent’s filings with the SEC on Forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
For the benefit of those you may be listening to the replay this call was held and recorded on May 05 2011.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today’s call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today’s press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today’s press release may be found on our website at <a href="http://www.emergentbiosolutions.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.emergentbiosolutions.com</u></a> under Investors/Press Releases.
With that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Fuad El-Hibri Emergent BioSolutions’ Chairman and CEO.
Fuad? Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our earnings call today.
In my prepared comments I will review our financial performance for the first quarter of 2011 provide guidance on the second quarter revenue discuss relevant updates to our business and highlight key near-term milestones.
Before I begin I’d like to take a moment to comment on our news earlier this week.
On Monday May 2 we announced a modification to our current BioThrax procurement contract with CDC.
The contract was expanded by 3.4 million doses with a total additional value of up to $101 million.
This brings the total number of does to be delivered the under the contract to 17.9 million.
Deliveries are contracted to be completed by the third quarter of this year.
In addition we continue to have discussions with CDC representatives regarding to form multi-year procurement contract.
We anticipate an award by the end of the third quarter this year.
Now let me review our first quarter financial results.
We achieved total revenues of $18.5 million and realized a net loss of $21 million.
As you may remember from our March earnings call we anticipated reduced deliveries in the first quarter.
We redeployed our potency testing capacity primarily to the qualification of replacement reference standards.
This process which is required to enable continued release of BioThrax doses has now been substantially completed.
Moving onto guidance we maintain our full year 2011 guidance of total revenues of $320 million to $340 million.
We expect second quarter total revenues of $80 million to $90 million reflecting return to normal levels of product growth.
We anticipate catching up to our total revenue guidance by the end of the year.
We also maintained our full year 2011 net income guidance of $35 million to $45 million.
Let me now discuss the relevant update to our business since our March earnings call beginning with our BioDefense division.
I’m pleased to report substantial progress across key programs.
We completed multiple engineering runs in Building 55 under our funded multi-year program to license the large-scale manufacturer BioThrax.
We completed qualification activities and are preparing a BLA supplement to obtain regulatory approval for a second fill/finish contractor for BioThrax as part of our risk mitigation strategy.
We completed dosing patients in the Phase I safety study for both Thravixa our monoclonal Anthrax therapeutic and NuThrax which combines BioThrax with an old novel regimen.
We also submitted proposals totaling over $95 million to fund continued development of Anthrivig our polyclonal Anthrax therapeutic Thravixa and post-exposure indication vaccine.
With respect to our BioSciences division the last of about 2800 infants have been vaccinated and they’re at Phase IIb efficacy trial evaluating our MVA based TB vaccine candidate.
This is the largest infant clinical study for a next generation TB vaccine conducted to date.
We’re pleased to be developing this product in partnership with the University of Oxford Aeras The Wellcome Trust (inaudible) our South African CRO.
We look forward to a final study report in the second half of 2012.
In addition for TRU-016 our anti-CD37 therapeutic candidate which is being developed with Abbott under a collaboration with them we recently began dosing patients in a Phase Ib2 combination study with Bendamustine in relapsed CLO patients.
Finally I’d like to provide an update on the key milestones we expect to achieve through year end.
First in terms of additional U.S.
government contracts.
For BioThrax we expect to secure a multi-year procurement contract which will commit substantially all of our current handling capacity.
And for Anthrivig Thravixa and BioThrax post exposure we expect to secure additional multi-year development funding of up to 95%.
Second in terms of anticipated milestone payments we expect to achieve a TRU-016 development milestone which will trigger a $6 million payment from Abbott.
Third in terms of clinical development milestones starting with the advanced stage programs for Anthrivig we anticipate issuing the final study report for the recently completed pivotal clinical trial.
For the TB vaccine candidate we expect the initiation of a Phase IIb efficacy study in HIV infected adults and adolescents sponsored by Aeras.
And for SBI-087 in RA we anticipate completing enrollment for a Phase II dose regimen finding study.
And with respect to our Phase I programs we anticipate to file for TRU-016 initiating a Phase II combination study for CLL and a Phase I combination study for ANthrivig.
For SBI-087 completing a Phase I safety and PK study for SLE and for Thravixa completing a Phase I safety and PK study for Anthrax.
Fourth in terms of manufacturing infrastructure milestones for our Baltimore facility we’re on track to substantially complete facility modifications and to initiate step transfer for our first product candidate.
And for our Lansing facility we are on track of initiating manufacture of consistency lot of BioThrax in Building 55 by year end.
Additionally we continue to pursue acquisition and licensing opportunities to advance our R&amp;D pipeline and expand our sources of revenue.
In conclusion we continue to execute on this year’s operating plan.
We look forward to updating you throughout the remainder of the year on our progress toward achieving our key 2011 milestones.
That concludes my prepared comments and I’ll now turn it over to Don who will take you through the numbers in greater detail.
Don? Thank you Fuad.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Fuad mentioned following the close of the market today we released our financial results for the first quarter 2011.
I encourage everyone to take a look at the press release which is currently available on our website.
We plan to file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the SEC no later than the close of business tomorrow Friday May 6.
The 10-Q will also be available on our website.
I’ll now provide a brief overview of our financial results for the first quarter of 211.
As we previously guided our total revenues in Q1 were light.
Total revenues were $18.5 million which were comprised of $5.6 million of product sales and $12.9 million of contracts and grants revenue.
As Rob has already discussed during the quarter we redeployed our potency testing capacity to the qualification of replacement reference standards and other development testing.
This process which is required to enable continued release of BioThrax doses has now been substantially completed.
Looking at the contracts and grants revenues this increased by 63% or $5 million over the $7.9 million recognized in the first quarter 2010.
This growth was driven by increases in reimbursement revenues related to the Building 55 and further contracts awarded in 2010 as well as collaboration revenues from Abbott and Pfizer.
On the spending side our R&amp;D expense in Q1 2011 was $34.8 million versus $19.9 million for Q1 2010 an increase of 74%.
On a sequential basis relative to Q4 2010 our R&amp;D expense increased by 17%.
In both instances the growth in Q1 2011 reflects the impact of the programs we acquired as part of the acquisition of Trubion late last year.
If one takes into account the contracts and grants funding we have for many of our programs out net R&amp;D spend for Q1 2011 was $20 million.
We expect our total R&amp;D spending will continue to fluctuate quarter-to-quarter due to the various development stages of our pipeline candidates.
Our SG&amp;A expense in Q1 2011 was $18.2 million an increase of $2 million or 12% over Q1 2010.
On a sequential basis our SG&amp;A spending decreased 16% relative to the fourth quarter 2010.
We expect to continue to carefully manage our growth in overhead.
As a result of both revenue and continuing investment in our product pipeline we recorded Q1 2011 net loss of $21 .4 million or $0.61 per share.
Finally let me briefly comment on the balance sheet.
Our combined cash cash equivalents investments and accounts receivable totalled $155.2 million as of March 31 2011 compared with $210.3 million at December 31 2010.
Turning now to our 2011 financial forecast.
As Fuad noted earlier we are reaffirming our 2011 forecast of total revenues of $320 million to $340 million and net income after tax of $35 million to $45 million.
For the second quarter 2011 we are anticipating total revenues of between $80 million and $90 million.
And importantly we remain confident that we will sign a multi-year procurement contract with U.S.
government before the end of September this year.
As we stated in our call of March 10 of this year calendar 2011 is a year of execution.
We look forward to completing deliveries of BioThrax under our current U.S.
government contract as recently modified and we expect to begin delivering under a follow-on multi-year contract.
We continue to make significant progress with the modifications to our Baltimore facility and the process of license share of Building 55.
We anticipate achieving important development milestones in many of our clinical development programs.
We also will continue to focus on growing our business through M&amp;A and are actively reviewing opportunities that would bring near-term value.
That concludes my comments.
I’ll now turn the call over to the operator so that we can begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just wondering if you could provide a little bit more detail on what substantially completed means what's actually left to be completed? And I guess in addition given it sounds like you haven't started reshipping to the stockpile how you have confidence that the runs that you've been accumulating will pass potency lab testing?  Thank you Eric.
Let me start by saying that with substantially completing the process we mean that we’ve done most of the testing that is part of the process of qualifying and you reference lot.
Of course after that we need to put the package together analyze the data put it together and submit it to FDA and get back to any time through deal.
With respect to delivery issue right we haven’t shipped yet but we do expect to ship by the end of this second quarter.
As we have shown in our guidance for the second quarter which is $80 million to $90 million in total sales which as usual a significant portion of that is being at product sales.
So we do anticipate getting product released by the end of the quarter and actually shipping by end of second quarter.
So Fuad just to be clear then you've obviously been accumulating a lot of product and that's waiting around to be potency-tested once you've finished the qualification.
And your best guess of course is that most of those lots will pass testing and be shipped this quarter? Correct absolutely.
And also Eric you reminded that we have annual maintenance shutdowns that was performed and the one that we performed last year was towards the latter part of the year which means that anyway even if we had and reallocate it.
We redeployed our potency testing capacity that the first quarter would have been like in terms of product release anyway because it takes about three to four months from the time we reinitiate after a shutdown until we get FDA release of our product.
So there are certainly lots in the queue that we’re confident are going to test within the normal range for testing throughout the year.
So that’s at the – by the end of second quarter we would have an ability to achieve the guidance that we gave.
Thanks for the clarification.
One more question on the $600 000 in sales to international and other customers.
I think that may be the first time you've broken that number out at least if my memory serves? Is this going to be something we see in the future? And is $600 000 about the kind of run rate or is this an aberrant quarter one way or another? So Eric this is Don.
How are you? Good.
Thanks Don.
Okay okay.
We broken that out in past calls and certainly in all of the filings with the SEC.
So this is nothing out of the ordinary and we will continue to break it out as we go forward.
As you know as we have talked about the ex-US market in the past.
There I don't think one could point to a run rate for ex-US.
As demands rise and as we’re able to satisfy those demands with some capacity that may be available.
We’ll do so.
But I wouldn't project a run rate at this point of time.
I would like to add to that too is that we are pursuing regulatory approval to market BioThrax in several countries around the world.
And as we're making progress towards that and hopefully which will culminate in market authorization in those markets we think that that's -- and assuming we do have a bit extra capacity that might increase future sales.
Again there is no promise of that I am just giving you a little bit more color as to what we're doing in terms of potentially expanding our potential of our international market.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Greg Wade with Wedbush.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First up with respect to Building 55 could you give us a little more granularity in to the milestones associated with licensure and the anticipated timeline for those? And then Don could you just tell us a little bit about what depreciation expense was in the quarter and how you think that's going to behave over the anticipated coming year and maybe next year as you guys get more manufacturing capacity under your belt? Thanks.
Thanks for joining us today Greg.
Let me try to answer the first question which is that really we have a multiyear contract with BARDA to scale up the manufacturing of BioThrax in Building 55.
And there are this is a development contract which has normal development milestone that we achieve.
We prepare invoices and get reimbursed for the activity that we extended on the project.
So the key milestones I guess for this year is consistency lot manufacture.
For next year it’s clinical testing and nonclinical stuff which go on in parallel and then hopefully thereafter BLA submission.
All right.
Greg good afternoon.
With regards to depreciation for the quarter it was about $2.2 million.
And basically it’s going to remain in that area until such time as Baltimore comes on.
As you know depreciation begins when an asset is put in place for its intended use.
So Building 55 won't contribute to that stream until such time as it’s licensed.
So Baltimore is probably the next significant asset investment and we would look at that beginning probably in 2012.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you Greg.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from the line of Karen Jay with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
It’s Karen for Cory Kasimov.
I have two questions.
The first is on now that you've been awarded the bridging contract is there any visibility into potential timing of the RFP for the renewal? Yes thank you for joining us Karen.
Yes indeed we were very pleased to execute the modification which actually adds 3.4 million doses to the existing contract that we have been overall delivering early on so that bridges us through September.
The RFP is still being worked on.
We have no reason to believe that it’s not forthcoming very soon.
We remain confident that it’s going to come out.
We remain confident that an award will be finalized by the end of the third quarter in this year.
Okay great.
And then my second question is on Building 55 any updates on whether or not bridging studies will be required? We have dialog with FDA on an ongoing basis.
.
And once our consistency lots are completed we will have another meeting with the FDA to discuss this discuss in greater detail.
So it’s a little premature now to comment and we’re prepared to do both if there is study to be done we’re prepared to do that.
If you don't have to do one it means earlier approval was also the same.
So we’re timing as to what the situation might be.
We’re happy that our Building 55 contract with the government allows and provides funding for the situation that we do have to do a clinical purchase.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have no further questions.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I’d now like to turn the call back over to Bob Burrows for closing remarks.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation..
Please note that today call is being recorded and a replay will be available beginning later today through May 19.
Alternatively there is available a webcast of call an archive version of which will be available later today accessible through the company's website.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Good bye.
Ladies and gentlemen we thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter Two 2011 Emergent BioSolutions Earnings Conference Call.
I will be your event manager today.
Throughout the conference you remain on listen-only.
(Operator Instructions).
And now I’d like to hand the presentation over to your host for today’s call Mr.
Robert Burrows Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen again my name is Robert Burrows I’m Vice President of Investor Relations for Emergent.
And thank you all for joining us today as we discuss Emergent BioSolutions financial results for the second quarter of 2011.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
And in addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Joining me on the call this afternoon with prepared comments will be Fuad El-Hibri our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Don Elsey our Chief Financial Officer.
Additional members of our senior management team will be present on the call for purposes of the Q&amp;A session.
Before to begin I’m compelled to remind everyone that during the call management may make projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events and the company’s prospects for future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent’s current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
You are encouraged to review Emergent’s filings with the SEC on Forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
For the benefit of those you may be listening to the replay this call was held and recorded on August 4 2011.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today’s call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today’s press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today’s press release may be found on our website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com under Investors/Press Releases.
And with that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Fuad El-Hibri Emergent BioSolutions’ Chairman and CEO.
Fuad? Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
In my prepared comments I will review our financial performance for the second quarter discussed or revised full year 2011 guidance.
Provide guidance on third quarter revenue and highlight milestones related to our advanced stage development programs.
I’d like to start with the summary of our second quarter financial results.
We achieved total revenues of $88.1 million which is within the $80 million to $90 million guidance we provided in our previous earnings call.
We also realized net income of $14.2 million.
As anticipated in our last earnings call during the second quarter we completed qualification of the replacement reference matter which enabled us through deployed our potency testing capacity to routine product testing and release.
As of today we have completed deliveries under the original 14.5 million dose contract.
We have also now begin to make deliveries of the 3.5 million doses under the recently awarded on contract modification.
We expect to complete deliveries of all 17.9 million doses under this modified contract by the end of this year.
Selling competition of deliveries under our current contract we anticipate and continuing to deliver BioThrax to the SNS under a new five year contract currently in negotiation.
We expect that contract will be signed in the third quarter and will provide for the delivery of 44.8 million doses over the next five years.
Depending on the completion of deliveries under the current modified contract deliveries under the new contract are expected to commence in late 2011 or early 2012.
This multi-year procurement contract will commit substantially all of our current annual capacity over that period.
Moving on to guidance for the full-year 2011 we now anticipate total revenues of $270 million to $290 million and net income of $15 million to $25 million.
This revised guidance is primarily based on expected deliveries of BioThrax for 2011 of around 7 million doses.
As you all know our expected annual output can vary from between 7 million to 9 million doses based on a number of factors including fermentation yields formulation of both product filling potency and release testing and the timing of delivery and acceptance of final product.
When we initially prepared our guidance for 2011 we had been experiencing a three year upward trend in fermentation yields as a result of multiyear process optimization activities.
We had anticipated this upward trend would continue in 2011 and therefore anticipated upward – would be closer to the upper end of the 7 million to 9 million dose range.
However year-to-date the actual fermentation yields has been lower than what we had initially projected due to the variability inherent in biologic manufacturing.
The lower than expected yields are associated with the variability and the growth characteristics of our fermentation process.
Our manufacturing process requires operation within tight specification for both production and testing.
Our process variability sometimes falls outside of these requirements thus affecting production yields and the overall number of doses available for delivery to the SNS.
We now project that the yield will be closer to 7 million doses this year.
Finally I would like to provide a brief update on our advance stage development pipeline.
For Anthrivig we have agreed with FDA on a regulatory path forward under the animal rule and have submitted to FDA the final study report for the recently completed pivotal clinical trial.
We are in process of initiating two non-clinical studies.
We expect to compete these studies by year-end.
For TB we have completed enrollment and vaccination of the 2 800 infants in the Phase IIb efficacy trial in South Africa.
This month we expect to announce the initiation of another Phase IIb efficacy study this one in approximately 1400 HIV infected adults aged 18 to 50 sponsored by Aeras.
For SBI-087 in RA enrollment in the Phase II dose regimen study has been completed.
Patients are currently being treated and we anticipate announcing results of this Phase II study in early 2012.
For Z-mab our late-stage anti cd4 monoclonal antibody for T-cell lymphoma we are preparing for the completion of an ongoing Phase III study under an existing SPA.
To remind you in June we acquire this product under license from Genmap.
In addition to moving forward with the clinical program we are also exploring partnership opportunities for this candidate.
Lastly let me give you an update on our manufacturing infrastructure in Lansing and Baltimore.
For our Lansing facility we have completed engineering runs in building 55 and anticipate completing the bulk manufacturing of consistency lots by year-end.
For our Baltimore facility we are on track to substantially complete facility modifications and to initiate tech transfer for our TB candidate the first product candidate for this site by year-end.
Additionally we continue to pursue acquisition and licensing opportunity with the focus on late stage or revenue generating products.
In conclusion of the second half of 2011 we look forward to continue delivering the remaining doses of BioThrax under the current modified contract.
In addition we remain committed to staying profitable through diligent management of our expenses while continuing to advance our late stage development programs.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I will now turn it over to Don.
He will take you through the numbers in greater detail.
Don? Thank you Fuad.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Fuad mentioned following the close of the markets today we released our financial results for the second quarter of 2011.
I encourage everyone to take a look at the press release which is currently available on our website.
We plan to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the SEC later than the close of business tomorrow Friday August 5th.
And the 10-Q will also be available on our website.
Let me now briefly discussed our financial results.
Total revenues for 2Q 2011 were $88.1 million as compared to $62.1 million for Q2 2010.
As you know total revenues are a combination of product sales and contracts and grants revenue.
Let me give some further detail on the makeup of our Q2 2011 total revenues.
For the second quarter product sales revenues were $71.5 million an increase of $15.6 million or 28% over the prior year.
This increase was primarily due to a 25% increase in the number of doses BioThrax delivered.
Product sales revenues for the second quarter of 2011 consisted of BioThrax sales to HHS of $70.7 million and aggregate international and other sales of $738 000.
Moving on to contracts and grants for Q2 2011 contracts and grants revenues were $16.7 million an increase of $10.4 million or 166% over the prior year.
The increase in contracts and grants revenues was primarily due to revenues from our contract from BARDA for large scale manufacturing for BioThrax and our collaborations with Abbott and Pfizer along with increased activity and associated revenue from our other development contracts with NIAID and BARDA.
Contracts and grants revenues for our 2Q 2011 consisted of $12.1 million in development contract and grant revenue from NIAID and BARDA and $4.5 million from Abbott and Pfizer Now with respect to gross profit and gross profit margins for 2Q 2011 our gross profit was approximately 78% which was slightly below the prior year but within the range of typical gross profit margins which are between 70% and 80%.
Turning to R&amp;D our 2Q 2011 gross R&amp;D expense was $31.5 million an increase of $12.9 million or 69% over the prior year.
This increase principally reflects higher contract service and personal related costs and includes increased expenses of $12.4 million for product candidates and technology platform development activities from our Biosciences division primarily the programs we acquired as part of the acquisition of Trubion in Q4 2010.
And if one takes into account the contracts and grants funding we have for many of our programs our net R&amp;D spend for 2Q 2011 was $13.1 million.
We remain committed to investing in the development of our product pipeline.
And expect our total R&amp;D spending will continue to fluctuate quarter-to-quarter due to the various development stages of our broad pipeline of candidate.
Next we turn to G&amp;A.
Our 2Q 2011 SG&amp;A expenses were $20.4 million an increase of $2.7 million or 15% over the prior year.
This increase is primarily due to approximately $2.2 million in restructuring charges related to our U.K.
operations.
We remain focused on managing the growth in our general and administrative expenses.
Moving on to earnings for 2Q 2011 we generated net income of $14.2 million or $0.40 per basic share.
This compares to net income of $9.8 million for 2Q 2010.
Finally let me briefly comment on the balance sheet.
Our combined cash cash equivalents investments and accounts receivables totaled $174.4 million as of June 30 2011 compared to $210.4 million at December 31 2010 and $155.2 million as of March 31 2011.
As we stated in our previous call this year calendar 2011 is a year of execution.
We look forward to completing deliveries of BioThrax under our current U.S.
government contract as recently modified and we look forward to commenting deliveries under the new follow on multiyear contract in late 2011 or early 2012.
We continue to make significant progress with the process of license share and building 55 in the modifications to our Baltimore facility.
We anticipated achieving important development milestones in many of our clinical development programs.
We have also continued our focus on growing our business through M&amp;A and are actively reviewing opportunities that would bring near term value.
That concludes my comments.
I will now turn the call over to the operator so that we can begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator please proceed.
(Operator Instructions.) Your first question comes from the line of Nicolas Bishop please proceed.
Good evening guys thanks for taking my questions.
The first one on your production yield Fuad mentioned in his prepared remarks that over the last several years you put in place some process improvements that seem to give confidence that you could – reproduce simply get a higher production yield at the higher end of that range.
Could you maybe explain a little bit exactly what went wrong in the last quarter-end what your confidence is going forward that you can return to the higher end of the production and when than higher production might occur? Thank you Nick.
Let me start by saying that really nothing went wrong as such in that second quarter.
As we had advised previously our output annual output has reached a level from 7 million to 9 million doses a year and what we had anticipated as we prepared guidance early on this year is that we would somewhere between 8 million to 9 million doses this year.
As it turns out we are now producing closer to around 7 million doses a year.
The variability in biologics manufacturing has really to do with growth characteristics of the fermentation process.
And there it changes from time-to-time.
Yes that the optimization activities that had been going on for a while have actually have proven to have shifted our output ranges from what used to be in the lower millions to now 7 million to 9 million and then last year it was close to 9 million doses.
This year as it appears we will be closer to 7 million but our confidence that we can still operate with in the 7 million to 9 million dose output range is high and that our optimization exercises will continue to enhance on average our annual output hopefully one day bringing even shifting upward the range to something like 8 million to 10 million doses.
So just reminded this year that it’s taking a little longer and that the fermentation process is inherently variable and this year it appears that we’ll be closer to the lower range of that output.
Okay thanks that’s helpful.
And then the other thing I wanted to ask about is the finalization of the new contract.
Do we have any updates on timing of that finalization and maybe just some color on what points are being negotiated at this stage and also as I understand it it’s a five year contract with the number of doses such that you are obligated to deliver 8.8 million per year.
So how should we think about what happens if your production capacity comes in sort of towards the lower end of the 7 million to 9 million in the future? Now these are good questions Nick.
Let me start with the first one which is what is our expectations as to signing of the new contract? There we’ve been informed the document once to still accomplished a signing by the end of the third quarter.
We as recently as a couple of days ago continued negotiations we’re making progress.
We have no reasons to believe that we couldn’t finalize a contract by the end of third quarter so in the next couple of months.
With respect to the new contract with which start almost likely with slightly with 2012 deliveries is looking forward for five years and as you say has an average of about – around 8.75 million to 9 million doses.
And there as I mentioned earlier we – based on not only last year’s approximately 9 million does output but the previous years we’ve seen an improvement an upwards trend in output.
We still believe even though this year might be below expectations that next year and the years beyond will generate and average of around 9 million doses upwards so that we feel quite confident that we can deliver.
Let me also remind you that as in previous contracts already signed that in this one we expect that we have a provision that allows us to deliver doses in any given year that we fall short off for the next year.
So there will be a and we expect be at provision as with another conference that would allow us to then delivered the following quarter if we fall short because of the variability in our yields and that can vary from year-to-year.
But do we expect to be able to produce an average projecting forward over the next five years of 9 million doses? Yes we do.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
That’s helpful.
Thank you Nick.
Your next question comes from the line of Cory Kasimov from J.P.
Morgan.
Please proceed.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Thanks for taking the question to follow up on that last topic of discussion and ask it from the other side what happens with the follow-on contract if the new manufacturing facility comes online in the next five years while that contract is ongoing and you have substantially more capacity? Understand and we are working towards a timeline that we had communicated with you previously of completing the license share of that facility within 3 to 4 years.
Now there are a couple of variables that are unknown such as into what extent that we have to do clinical bridging studies and that makes to drive it out to the for five years from now.
I think the government one has to succeed and so do we and didn’t want to – wanted to give us net run-way to give us time to complete the Licensure of building 55.
So I think it was very – we would see it very positively but the government was willing to commit itself or it is willing to commit itself for five years in a five-year contract.
Now should we get license Licensure of this building 55 facility that scales up facility earlier.
This is – this would be good news we would take that opportunity discuss it with the government and look at ways to accommodate the additional output.
Okay.
And then you guys clearly sound confident about securing the new fallow-on BioThrax contract this quarter but I just want to make sure that the current macro issues that are out there aren’t a potential source of a delay beyond what your current expectations are? I mean the country is going through hard time there is no doubt and there are – there have been some identified spending cuts and there are some still to be identified through this special community.
A national security and home land security is a very important issue and biological threat of the specialty anthrax has been identified as the highest threat the requirement of 75 million doses for the shock file stand and so there is no indication that there would be any cuts with over respect to protecting American civilians from what’s still remains a high risk potential risk of (inaudible).
Okay that’s helpful.
And my final question on a totally different subject.
When do you expect to have Phase IIb TB data and if it’s positive what would the next step to be? Yeah that’s a good question.
We will publish the results sometime next year.
As you know we will have some indications before we actually publish the final study results.
But our next step would be to approach regulatory authorities to see if the powering of this particular trial given the strength of the data that it generated would be enough for licensure for example in South Africa and where the disease has rampant and where there is a national emergency expressed around disease and the combination of HIV and TB.
So the – of course we will explore any opportunity of early licensure in South Africa and potentially some neighboring countries while continuing to have to move along the regulatory pathway in Europe and potentially United States at this product also license in the United States.
Okay thanks for the update.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) At this time we have no further questions in the queue.
I’ll turn the call back over to Mr.
Burrows for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s call.
Thank you for your participation.
Please note that today’s call has been recorded and a replay will be available beginning later today through August 15 Alternative readers available on webcast of today’s call and our conference which will be available later today accessible through the company’s website.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Good bye.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Emergent BioSolutions Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ann and I’ll be your coordinator for today’s call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) I’d like to turn the presentation over to Mr.
Robert Burrows.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Ann.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Again my name is Robert Burrows I’m Vice President of Investor Relations for Emergent.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss Emergent BioSolutions’ financial results for the third quarter and full nine months of 2011.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Joining me on the call this afternoon with prepared comments will be Fuad El-Hibri Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Don Elsey our Chief Financial Officer.
Additional members of our senior management team will be present on the call for purposes of the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I’m compelled to remind everyone that during the call management may make projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events and the company’s prospects or future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent’s current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
You are encouraged to review Emergent’s filings with the SEC on Forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
For the benefit of those who may be listening to the replay this call was held and recorded on November 3 2011.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today’s call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today’s press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today’s press release may be found on our website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com under Investors/Press Releases.
And with that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Fuad El-Hibri Emergent BioSolutions’ Chairman and CEO.
Fuad? Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
During the third quarter we continue to execute on our operating plan.
We manufactured and delivered doses of doses of BioThrax in to the SNS.
We advanced the development of our infectious disease oncology and autoimmune programs and we made progress on Building 55 scale up.
I am pleased to report that at the end of the quarter as expected we received an award for the supply of BioThrax to the SNS over the next five years.
This clearly underscores the government’s continued commitment to procure BioThrax as a critical medical countermeasure in the strategic national stockpile.
In terms of our third quarter results we achieved total revenues of approximately $59 million which is within the $50 to $60 million guidance we provided in our previous earnings call.
We also realized net income of $1.5 million.
In terms of the remainder of the year we are reaffirming our full year 2011 guidance of total revenues of $270 to $290 and net income of $15 to $25 million.
Turning now to the status of BioThrax manufacturing in the current year.
During the quarter we completed deliveries under the original 14.5 million dose contract and begun to make deliveries of the 3.5 million doses under the contract modification.
We remained on track to complete deliveries of all 17.9 million doses under this modified contract by the end of the year.
As discussed last quarter we have been experiencing yields that puts us at the lower end of the historic 7 million dose to 9 million dose range.
Over the course of the year we have identified additional steps to our ongoing process optimization initiatives to further improve our – success rate.
Some of these steps we have already implemented as a result we are starting to improvements to our yield.
Once we implement the remaining steps we expect to increase the output to a range of between 8 to 10 million doses per year.
With these measures we expect to deliver between to 8 to 8.5 million doses under the first year of annual award.
Under the terms of the award we retained the ability to modify the timing of the deliveries from year-to-year depending on manufacturing yields and other factors.
On September 30 we received a notice of award from the CBC to supply 44.75 million doses of BioThrax over the next five years with a total value up to $1.25 billion.
The total value includes a premium of less than $1 per dose for delivery of five year data product which we anticipate in the later portion of the contract term plus a modest annual price escalation.
The delivery time of award are expected to commence in December immediately following the completion of deliveries under our current market.
Turning now to recent developments in our clinical stage product pipeline.
Let me begin with our BioDefense Division.
Over the last decade we have build a broad portfolio of anthrax countermeasures to meet the requirements of the U.S.
government.
Our anthrax franchise consists of the only FDA licensed anthrax vaccine BioThrax and several novel vaccines and therapeutics in development with funding support from BARDA and NIAID.
To-date we have delivered over 55 million doses of BioThrax to the U.S.
government and since 1998 over 10 million doses have been administered to more than 2.6 million people.
In partnership with BARDA we are developing a number of enhancements to BioThrax in order to strengthen its utility for the government.
These include a reduced dosing schedule of three doses over six months with subsequent boosters for the general use (inaudible) of BioThrax on its own and a potential two dose schedule for post exposure use of BioThrax with a novel agent.
We also continue to develop BioThrax an RTA based vaccine candidate under a multiyear $187 million development contract from BARDA.
We have developed a promising new formulation that we believe will provide long-term stability.
In addition we have established a manufacturing process using disposable technology that generates very high yields.
We expect this process to generate sufficient doses that would exceed entire U.S.
government’s requirement using one single use bioreactor at the 500 liter scale.
We believe this gives us ultimate flexibility in the manufacturing of patient and the transferability of the process.
In addition to the portfolio of vaccines for anthrax we are currently developing two therapeutic candidates for the treatment or symptomatic patients.
Our each of candidates’ anthrax is polyclonal IgG that’s supported by approximately $11 million of Florida funding.
Now that we have agreed with FDA on a regulatory path forward under the animal rule we have initiated two nonclinical studies to advance the program.
However continued progress requires additional funding from the U.S.
government and we’re waiting for an opportunity to re-engage in a dialog with HHS regarding future funding.
The growth of our BioDefense division is to strengthen the nation’s arsenal of medical countermeasures and provide products that will support the government’s biopreparedness efforts.
Now that’s we are comprehensively addressing the anthrax franchise we are exploring other opportunities to develop medical countermeasures for the SNS.
Let me now turn to our Biosciences division.
For TB there are updates on two Phase II trials.
The first relates to the efficacy trial involving 2 800 infants in South Africa.
All patients have been vaccinated and are being monitored.
We continue to anticipate final results in 2012.
The second trial relates to the efficacy study involving the approximately 1 400 HIV infected adults age 18 to 20 in South Africa in Senegal.
This trial has been initiated and as a primary funding from a European development agency.
For 2016 enrollment of the Phase Ib portion of a study evaluating our candidate in combination with bendamustine and patients with – has been completed.
We anticipated in the near term those in-patients in the phase II portion of the study which will examine the safety and efficacy of TRU-016 versus Bendamustine alone.
And finally for SBI-087 enrollment in a Phase II dose regimen study and RA has been completed.
We will provide updates as agreed upon with our development partner Pfizer.
Turning now to our manufacturing infrastructure let me update you on our Lansing and Baltimore operations.
For our Lansing facility Building 55 our plans for process development and product comparability continue to make steady progress under the existing $107 million development contract from BARDA.
We have completed characterization and engineering runs and have initiated nine clinical studies.
We are making preparations to initiate manufacturing of consistency lots but recently met with FDA to discuss our overall comparability plan.
FDA was supportive of our plan and we’re in the process of now finalizing our past relationship without the need for clinical study.
For our Baltimore facility we continue to be on track to substantially complete facility modifications and to initiate tech transfer for our TB candidate the first product candidate for this site by year end.
Finally in terms of M&amp;A we continue to pursue acquisition and licensing opportunities with a focus on late-stage or revenue-generating products.
In conclusion for the remainder of 2011 we look forward to continuing deliveries of BioThrax to the U.S.
government and advancing clinical stage development progress.
That concludes my prepared comments and I will now turn it over to Don who will take you through the numbers in greater detail.
Don? Thank you Fuad.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Fuad mentioned following the close of the markets today we released our financial results for the third quarter of 2011.
I encourage everyone to take a look at the press release which is currently available on our website.
We plan to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the SEC no later than the close of business tomorrow Friday November 4th.
The 10-Q will also be available on our website.
Now for a brief overview of our financial results.
Total revenues for third quarter 2011 were $58.8 million as compared to $74 million for Q3 2010.
Total revenues for the first nine months of 2011 were $165.4 million compared to $182.9 million for the same period in 2010.
As you know total revenues are a combination of revenue from product sales and contracts and grants.
Product sales revenues in the Q3 2011 were $43.7 million a decrease of $23.6 million from the prior year.
This decrease was due to a 38% decrease in the number of BioThrax doses delivered due to the lower production yield we experienced earlier in the year.
Product sales revenues for the quarter consisted of BioThrax sales to HHS of $43.6 million an aggregate international and other sales of $85 000.
Product sales revenues for the first nine months of 2011 were $120.7 million and consisted of $119.4 million in BioThrax sales to HHS and aggregate international and other sales of 1.4 million.
The decrease of $41.3 million from product sales revenue for the same period of 2010.
The decrease resulted primarily from a 29% decrease in the number of BioThrax doses delivered due to the redeployment of our potency testing from BioThrax release testing.
The qualification of replacement reference standards and other development testing during the first quarter of 2011 coupled with the lower production yield.
For Q3 2011 contracts and grants revenues consisted of $15.1 million and an increase of $8.4 million over the period year.
Contracts and grants revenues for the first nine months of 2011 were $44.7 million an increase of $23.8 million over the same period in 2010.
This increase is primarily due to revenues from our contract with BARDA for large scale manufacturing of BioThrax.
Revenues associated with increased activity under other development contracts with NIAID and BARDA as well as revenues from our collaborations with Abbott and Pfizer.
Our gross profit in Q3 2011 was approximately 75% and approximately 77% for the first nine months of 2011.
These are both within our typical gross margin range of between 70% and 80%.
Our Q3 2011 R&amp;D expenses $29.2 million an increase of $8.1 million or 38% over the prior year.
This increase primarily reflects higher contract service and personnel related costs and includes increased expenses of $4.5 million for product candidates and technology platform development activities in our biosciences segment including those acquired in our acquisition of Trubion late last year.
$2 million for product candidates and supported by our bio – segment and $1.5 million in other research and development activities.
Our R&amp;D expense for the first nine months of 2011 was $95.5 million an increase of $35.8 million or 60% from the comparable period of 2010.
This increase primarily reflects higher contract service and personal-related cost as well as increased expenses of $30.8 million for product candidates and technology platform development activities in our Biosciences segment $3.1 million for product candidates in our BioDefense segment and $1.9 million in research and development and support of central research and development activities.
As you know the contracts and grants funding that we receive for many of programs partially offsets our R&amp;D expenses.
Therefore after consideration of this funding and the portion of spending attributable to our joint venture partners.
Our net R&amp;D spend for the third quarter was $12.4 million versus $13.3 million last year and $45.6 million for the first nine months of 2011 versus $36.6 million in the same period of 2010.
We remained committed to investing in the development of our product pipeline and expect our total R&amp;D spending will continue fluctuate quarter-to-quarter due to the varied developments stages of our broad pipeline of candidates.
Our third quarter 2011 SG&amp;A expenses were $17.4 million a decrease of $3.3 million or 16% over the prior year.
This decrease is primarily due to decrease professional services including legal and other fees incurred in 2010 related to Trubion acquisition.
We remained focused on managing the growth in our general and administrative expenses.
Our SG&amp;A expense for the first nine months of 2011 was $56 million an increase of $1.5 million or 3% from the first nine months of 2010.
This increase is primarily due to approximately $2.2 million in restructuring charges related to our UK operations.
With respect to earnings for the third quarter net income was $1.5 million or $0.04 per basic share.
This compares to net income of $13.1 million or $0.42 per basic share for the third quarter 2010.
For the first nine months of 2011 we experienced a net loss of $5.6 million or $0.16 per basic share as compared to net income of $25.5 million or $0.82 per basic share for the first nine months of 2010.
Turning to the balance sheet our combined cash cash equivalents investments and accounts receivable totaled $177.8 million as of September 30 2011 compared to $210.4 million at December 31 2010 and $174.4 million as of June 30 2011.
Finally as Fuad mentioned we reaffirm our 2011 guidance of total revenues of $270 million to $290 million a net income of $15 to $25 million.
By the end of this year we look forward to completing deliveries of BioThrax doses under our current U.S.
government contract and to beginning deliveries under the recent award for $44.75 million additional doses.
We have made significant progress with the license share of building 55 in the modifications to our Baltimore facility and we continue to move these facilities forward.
On the business development front as Fuad mentioned we continue to evaluate M&amp;A opportunity that would bring near-term value and help grow our business.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I will now turn the call over to the operator so that we can begin the question and answer portion of the call.
Operator please proceed.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question comes from the line of Karen Jay.
Please proceed.
Hi Karen Jay for (inaudible) thanks for taking my questions.
I just have a couple the first is I want to make sure I understand from your prepared comments it sounds as if you will need to do any bridging studies for Building 55 and if that’s the case can you reconfirm the timeline that the timeline that the plants could be operational or online in 2013? Thank you for joining us today Karen this is what I am obviously it is good news that FDA was supported of a plan that wouldn’t include a clinical trial and a clinical is we estimated would add between year-and-a-half or two years of timeline.
This is however not the exact savings in time that we would – to do other comparability studies non-clinical studies that may take a bit longer than expected.
But overall I would say that we may gain something around a year’s time due to this important development.
Okay great that’s great news.
Also just (inaudible) that the current extension contract will likely finished delivering in 4Q and you will start deliveries under the new contract in 2011? Yes towards the end of 2011.
Okay.
Just one more question the changes that you’re implementing the remaining set to increase yield is that’s going to require any shutdown or slowdown in manufacturing? We don’t anticipate that would require any shutdown or slowdown.
It will take a while to these improvements to take effect which we hope will happen during the first half of next year.
So we are optimistic that these additional steps will help us to get to the level of $8 million to $10 million rather than the $7 million to $9 million which we have historically experienced.
Now again even with a $8 million to $10 million range and even with those improvements there is still about variability in the manufacturing process so the range the higher range with the midpoint of $9 million is still $8 million to $10 million.
Great.
Thank you very much and congrats on the new contract.
Thank you.
Thank you very much Karen.
And our next question comes from the line of Nicholas Bishop.
Please proceed.
Hi good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I just wanted to follow up a little bit more on the Building 55 licensure pass.
I was just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit more on exactly what the FDA has said you do or do not have to do and what issues remained to be cited and when those issues will become clear.
Well we’ve had a very positive dialog with FDA recently and our comparability plan which is pretty comprehensive and detailed was commended on and we’re evaluating these comments.
So it’s really premature to tell you exactly the timeline impact.
I tried to explain to Karen that we’re hoping that might have above eight years impact of pulling the timeline in but we’re still working through the exact ramifications with respect to the timelines.
Okay thanks.
And then just one quick one on the mechanics of the new BioThrax contract and that as you mentioned that you could have yield of up to 10 million doses although expected to deliver in 2012 8 million to 8.5 million if you have a greater yield then you expected is there any mechanism by which you could deliver more than that number on this contract? Obviously irrespective of the yields that we were actually experiencing this year which are within the range historic range of $7 to 9 million and that will continue to fluctuate as we go forward.
With the new award which has an average of 9 million doses we obviously are working towards shifting upward the range from the 7 to 9 million to 8 million to 10 million so that the average is about 9 million.
Again we may have year-to-year fluctuations and that’s fine because the award allows for includes terms that allows for the acceleration of delivery or the postponement of delivery into the next delivery years.
So there is flexibility.
Our goal is to shift the paradigm so that on average we can deliver 9 million a year but I have reemphasize as I have always emphasize this is a biological manufacturing process with variability.
So we are historically 7 to 9 million dose range.
We hope to reach – achieve quite sometime next year this 8 to 10 million range.
We’ve already seen and implemented some of the steps and they are looking promising and we were very excited about implementing the remaining steps.
Okay just to be clear.
I’m sorry.
No no that’s fine.
Okay.
Just to be clear I’m talking about next year if you have a yield of greater than 8.5 million for example there would be some possibility of delivering those two (inaudible)? Absolutely.
Again under the terms of the award we do retain the ability to monetize the timing of our delivers from year-to-year.
Okay great.
And then just one last financial one both R&amp;D and SG&amp;A have been on a declining trend through the year.
I’m wondering if you can give any guidance on whether that trend is expected to continue when they might flattening out or just what we should be thinking about there? Don why don’t you take that one? Sure happy to do that.
Nick as far as a trend of decline I really wouldn’t characterize it quite like that as you take a look at and let me treat them somewhat separately SG&amp;A that’s as evident in our notes and in the various filings.
There have been a lot of one-time occurrences either last year or this year.
I think once you normalize for those types of one-time occurrences and you take a look at the trends throughout the year you’ll see SG&amp;A is relatively steady throughout the year.
With regards to R&amp;D of course that’s going to fluctuate with where a various product candidates are in their trials at any particular point in time.
So you are going to see some volatility there.
Again I think certainly year over year you are going to see an increase in absolute R&amp;D expenses as we picked up the Trubion product candidates and continue to drive those forward.
So I would say that with respect to the trends in those relatively steady and SG&amp;A and on an overall increase in R&amp;D but you are going to see up and down as one goes through the year.
Is that answer to your question Nick.
It does thank you very much.
Thank you Nick.
And our next question comes from the line of Greg Wade.
Please proceed.
Thanks and good afternoon.
Wondering if we might just return to the Building 55 approval process so our expectation was that there will be a package submitted to FDA at the end of this year and that we’d found out sometime in 2012 as to whether clinical studies would be required.
Will that package still be submitted or do you require additional preclinical studies to be done before that can be submitted some time say some time in 2012 with an answer sometime in 2013.
Thanks for joining us Greg.
I’m not sure that we ever expected to submit a package so to speak to FDA that is formally in a review we did develop a plan and submitted the plan for a discussion purposes to the FDA.
And we have had that dialog.
So yes in a sense we have had that discussion and they commented that they agreed with our plan on that a clinical trial is not likely to be needed and but they made some comments as to kind of some of the engineering runs and comparability aspects of our plan that might need additional work.
So you may save the time and effort that involved in the – not doing the clinical trial but on the other hand we might be doing a bit more on the non-clinical side so but net-net we still believe that we can bring the timeline and net-net overall its less of an effort so it’s good news.
Okay I agree.
I just like to understand the process so you will complete this work and you will be filing for approval of Building 55 when do you expect to make for approval of Building 55? Well we expect again we are amending our plan right now to reflect some of the changes and I would look at potentially sometime in late 2013 early 14 that delay supplement could go in.
Okay great thank you.
And then I just wanted to follow that up Don in terms of expected production in Q4 in order to if your guidance – will you be looking for something in the range of 3.5 million doses to deliver to the FNS? I think you can back end into that Greg as you know dose forecast per say.
But taking a lookout at our full year forecast for revenue and backing out the first nine months.
It’s easy to see where top line has to be – and you can do the math on the doses if you want.
Okay.
And then just if I one last question according to our math it looks like a significant uptick obviously you have the benefit of October and you actually know exactly what’s going on a daily basis.
So has the October production been to such a level that gives you great confidence then that this significant uptick is going to take place? Well remember our production I’m sorry (inaudible) remember our production cycle is such that our October production is really going to manifest itself in Q1 2012.
The shipments that we’re making in Q4 are basically completed going through their release testing et cetera et cetera.
If you take a look as I’ve suggested and drive the fourth quarter revenue off of our guidance and you compare it to the fourth quarter revenue of last year you’re going to see there are quite similar.
So as far as a significant uptick the uptick is not a whole lot different than it was last year.
Great that’s helpful.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I think what might be helpful here is that in terms of sub-locked manufacturing for this year it’s basically done.
So we have a good idea we know exactly what’s sub-locked have been produced.
So now it’s a question of filling and – testing et cetera.
So obviously as we get closer to the end of the year our confidence goes up in terms of meeting the guidance and today we’ve reaffirmed our guidance.
Thanks very much.
(Operator Instructions).
And our next question comes from the line Jim Molloy.
Please proceed.
Hey guys thanks for taking my questions.
I had (inaudible) timeline again I apologize for beating on this one but my understanding is consisting lot of manufacturing that’s wrapping up end of early next and then you complete validation and testing and prior to this we had assume to bridging study year and year and a half in the second half 14 potentially getting Building 55 online.
Now is the bridging study gone has consistently – consistency lot manufacturing extended or validation extended or you’ve mentioned before perhaps late ‘13 or early ‘14 – Building 55 what’s filling the rest of that space? Yes thank you for joining us Jim.
It’s the non-clinical studies that we refer to earlier which under the animal rule that right offence programs to show consistency one can also use animal results test results to demonstrate comparability.
So that’s what’s now we’re looking at potentially expanding that aspect that I mentioned of our total plan.
So it’s a kind of a trade off.
If we don’t bridge through a clinical trial we’re bridging through enhanced non-clinical studies.
And of course we’re continuing to look at the engineering runs and preparation for the consistency lots there we also received some comments which are of promising that we can get to consistency less relatively soon.
Okay great.
Then maybe could you walk through what exactly the current pricing per vial any changes on that? And where there are vials – I have seen most of the vials made but not shipped from prior quarters that are going to keep going to growing up in the fourth quarter to get to the sort of the big bump in the fourth.
I didn’t quite get your question can you come again please.
Yes sure I mean where there lots made but not shipped in prior quarters that are now getting shipped at the door in the fourth quarter and it seems like the numbers are going up the door capacity exceed kind of production maybe they don’t production capacity in the quarter.
Yeah I mean again the production cycles have variability from months-to-months.
The delivery when CDC can and is prepared to deliver various scheduling as always – something that needs to be completed.
So it can vary well happen – it seems to be a pattern with us that the fourth quarter seems to be more substantial quarters in terms of delivery.
So it just so happens we try to get up the door with any lots as quickly as possible.
So it’s not like that – there is no keeping an inventory and trying to manage quarter-to-quarter or add deliveries.
Okay great.
Maybe final question still assuming on $28 per dose on the current contract any thoughts on where that prices goes to for the next contract and then can you talk any specifics on what were the yield improvements that will drive yield.
Okay.
So the first question – we consider pricing something that we don’t disclose but it is pretty straightforward.
If we look at the 75 million doses we have given you an indication that the five year premium that would kick in the latter half of the five year period it is really not significant in amount and giving you an idea of modest escalation.
So I think when you look at how many doses we have to deliver at a total contract price you can’t be too far off in terms of what the price per dose is.
Okay great.
Then what exactly – where the sort of the hard moment that increased yields here in the most – or going forward of building from 7 to 8 and 8 to 10? It’s when you have a manufacturing process as you know you have process parameters within which you manufacture tightening some of these process parameters and looking at some times shifting of course with approval of FDA.
Everything has to be approved.
We may improve the yields or the success rate of sub production.
So it’s a without getting too technical and I don’t know that I would even want to share all that technical stuff that we’re doing.
We feel that we have tremendous competency and fermentation manufacturing and this is on our strength.
We are addressing those things that I’ve just discussed.
Okay.
Thanks for taking the questions guys.
Thank you John.
Ladies and gentlemen we have no further questions.
This concludes our question and answer season.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Robert Burrows for closing remarks.
Thank you Ann.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s call.
We appreciate every ones participation.
Please note that today’s call has been recorded and a replay will be available beginning later today through November 17th.
Alternatively there is available a webcast of today’s call an archive version of which will be available later today accessible through the company’s website.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Good bye.
Ladies and gentlemen we thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Emergent Biosolutions Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jeremy and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Bob Burrows Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Jeremy.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen thank you for joining us today as we discuss Emergent BioSolutions fourth quarter and full-year 2011 financial results.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Joining me on the call this afternoon with prepared comments will be Fuad El-Hibri our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Don Elsey our Chief Financial Officer.
Additional members of our senior management team will be present on the call for purposes of the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I am compelled to remind everyone that during the call management may make projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events and the company’s prospects or future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent’s current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve potential risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
You’re encouraged to review Emergent’s filings with the SEC on forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
For the benefit of those who may be listening to the reply this call is held and recorded on March 8 2012.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today’s call.
So again please refer to our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today’s press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today’s press release may be found on our website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com under Investors\Special Events.
With that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Fuad El-Hibri Emergent BioSolutions’ Chairman and CEO.
Fuad? Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today.
For my prepared comments I will review our financial performance for 2011 address the forecasts for 2012 including revenue expectations for the first quarter and discuss the current status of the company.
To begin let me review our financial results for 2011.
For the full year we achieved total revenues of approximately $273 million which is within the $270 to $275 million range we provided in January.
In addition we realized net income of $23 million which is within the $20 to $24 million range we previously provided.
At year end we held cash and accounts receivable of $220 million.
Looking ahead we are reaffirming our full year 2012 guidance of total revenues of $280 to $300 million a split between product sales of $220 to $230 million and contracts and grants revenue of $60 to $70 million.
We are also reaffirming our full year 2012 net income of $15 to $25 million.
In addition we anticipate first quarter 2012 total revenues of $40 million to $50 million.
Turning now to the status of the company.
Let me first talk about our BioDefense Division.
In 2011 we continued to manufacture and deliver as many doses of BioThrax into the SNS as possible.
To that end we completed deliveries under the prior 17.9 million dose contract and began deliveries under the new CDC contract.
The new contract which was awarded in September is for approximately 45 million doses valued at up to $1.25 billion to be delivered to the SNS through September 2016.
This is a significant commitment by the U.
S.
government and further affirms BioThrax as a critical component of the government’s biopreparedness arsenal for years to come.
In response to the government’s stated requirement to build a stock pile of 75 million doses of Anthrax vaccine we continue to make progress towards licensure of our large-scale facility Building 55.
This new facility is designed to manufacture up to 25 million doses of Anthrax per year on a single production line.
If needed this facility could with the addition of a second production line produce up to 50 million doses per year.
We have presented to FDA a comprehensive plan for regulatory approval based on comparability and non-clinical studies without clinical data.
During pre-submission discussions FDA indicated its overall support for our plan that doesn’t require clinical studies and provided a specific guidance on expanding this scope of non-clinical studies.
This may translate in obtaining approval potentially one year ahead of schedule.
In 2012 we’ve planned to complete consistency lot manufacturing and we anticipate licensure approval as early as 2014.
The partnership with BARDA we continue to enhance the value of Valtrex as one of the leading biodefense countermeasures.
These initiatives include obtaining post exposure indication optimizing the dosing schedule and extending the product shelf life.
We are also developing Valtrex in combination with a novel adjuvant in pursuit of a two-dose vaccination schedule administered over a two-week period.
In addition with respect to our other anthrax directive programs including our RPA vaccine candidates and our two therapeutic candidates we plan to complete ongoing studies and secure follow-on development funding from BARDA.
In pursuit of expanding the scope of our bio defense business we established a separate bio defense division with its own growth objectives.
We evaluate M&amp;A opportunities targeting areas where BARDA has indicated a high degree of interest and where development contracts have been awarded.
We are pursuing product development and manufacturing opportunities across multiple disease areas and are looking at products such as antimicrobials which have the added benefit of addressing both government and commercial markets.
Let me now turn to our bio sciences division our lead program in our bio sciences division is MVA-85A our TB booster vaccine candidate.
Given the potential to significantly reduce the TB disease burden worldwide our vaccine candidate has gained substantial support and funding commitments from renowned global NGOs.
As you know approximately 2 billion people or one third of the world’s population are estimated to be infected with the bacterium and are at risk of developing of TB.
According to the WHO in 2010 there were 8.8 million cases of TB resulting in 1.4 million deaths.
Clearly TB represents a substantial global unmet medical need.
In 2011 with support from our partners the Wellcome Trust and Aeras we completed vaccination of all 2 800 infants in our phase 2b efficacy study in South Africa.
These infants are now being observed and we continue to anticipate efficacy data from this study in late 2012.
If these data are promising and given the heavy disease burden worldwide we anticipate pursuing accelerated licensure in selected countries.
Our TB vaccine candidate is also in a second phase 2b efficacy trial involving approximately 1 400 HIV infected adults in South Africa and Senegal.
Both clinical trials have funding support from NGOs and European government agency.
It’s successful MVA85A would be the first vaccine license for TB since the introduction of BCG more than eight years ago.
Our other key biosciences program is our monoclonal antibiotic candidates 2016 targeting lymphomas.
For TRU-016 in NHL and CLL we have completed enrollment of the Phase 1b portion of the study evaluating our candidate in combination with Bendamustine and patient’s with relapsed CLL.
The safety data from this Phase 1b portion was recently reviewed by an independent data monitoring committee which authorize advancement into Phase II.
As a result we started dosing patients and the Phase II portion of the study which will examine the safety and efficacy of the TRU-016 with Bendamustine versus Bendamustine alone.
In 2012 we expect to complete enrollment in the Phase II combination study.
For TRU-016 in NHL we have completed enrollment in a Phase 1b combination study.
We expect to complete the Phase 1b study and we’ll then assess whether the data supports any initiation of Phase II in 2012.
Let me now update you on our manufacturing infrastructure.
We have made significant progress towards licensure Building 55.
The regulatory practice now clear and in 2012 we plan to complete consistency lock manufacturing.
We anticipate licensure could occur as early as late 2014.
For our Baltimore facility we have completed renovations and are installing disposable manufacturing technology for the simultaneous production of bacterial and viral products in multiple production type of suites.
We believe disposables were improved up scalability and flexibility in our production process.
We have met with FDA regarding our build-out and utilization plans and they indicated their support for current manufacturing in the facility.
Over the next 12 months we’ve planned to introduce our first product into the facility our MVA85A TB vaccine candidate.
In addition the facility will be capable of manufacturing new biodefense medical countermeasures as well as our monoclonal antibiotic candidates.
Before I turn this over to Don I wanted to make a few brief remarks about the leadership transition that is underway at Emergent.
Since 1998 it has been my great honor to serve as an Emergent’s Chief Executive Officer.
Therefore it was a mixed emotion that in December last year I announced my retirement as CEO effective April 1 2012.
As it has always been my intention to relinquish this role to a simply a matter of win.
As our company has grown and matured we have achieved many significant accomplishments since its inception.
We have grown revenues from $2.5 million in 1998 to approaching $300 million in 2011.
We have realized profitability for the last ten years.
We’ve established a global footprint growing from four to over 800 employees.
Our R&amp;D pipeline has grown from zero to eight clinical stage product candidates.
And we have become the premier biodefense government contractor.
I hand over the reins knowing that the company has a strong infrastructure and skilled leaders and as a result is well positioned for continued growth and success.
Dan Abdun-Nabi our current Chief Operating Officer will assume the role of Chief Executive Officer effective April 1 2012.
Dan and I have worked closely together for 8 years during which time he has proven to be an accomplished leader with an extraordinary capacity to act both decisively and strategically in the company’s best interests.
The Board of Directors executives management team and I have every confidence in his ability to continue to drive the company’s growth and to fulfill our mission to protect life.
I will continue to serve as Emergent’s Executive Chairman.
In this role I will spend approximately 50% of my time leading the activities of our Board of Directors providing ongoing advice to them and the executive team and working with the executive team on external relations corporate strategy and mergers and acquisitions.
That concludes my prepared comments and I will now turn it over to Don who will take you through the numbers in greater detail.
Don? Thank you Fuad.
Good afternoon everyone.
Before I get into the financial results I would like to congratulate Fuad on his final earnings call and thank Fuad for his support and leadership to the company since its founding.
So following the close of the markets today we released our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011.
I encourage everyone to take a look at the press release which is currently available on our website.
We plan to file our Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC no later than the close of business tomorrow Friday March 9th.
The 10-K will also be available on our website.
Let me now briefly discuss the numbers.
Full year 2011 total revenues were $273.4 million versus $286.2 million in 2010.
2011 revenues were comprised of $202.4 million of product sales a decrease of 19% over the prior year and $71 million of contracts and grants which is an increase of 104% over the prior year.
The lower product sales in 2011 is primarily due to our decision in the first quarter as you recall to redeploy our potency testing capacity from BioThrax release testing to qualification of replacement reference standards and other development testing as well as to lower production output we experienced during first half of 2011.
Production output improved over the remainder of the 2011 production period which led to increase product sales as evidenced by our fourth-quarter product revenues of $81.6 million.
Moreover fourth-quarter 2011 total revenues were $107.9 million compared to $103.2 million in 2010.
Turning to gross margins our full year 2011 gross margin was 79% a slight decrease over 2010.
Our expectation for gross margins remains within our historic norm of between 70% and 80%.
Turning to the bottom line full year 2011 net income was $23 million or $0.65 per share.
Although this is below our 2010 net income primarily due to lower revenues it is within the range we forecasted earlier in 2011.
2011 I’m pleased to say is our 10th consecutive year as a profitable company.
Fourth-quarter 2011 net income was $28.7 million or $0.80 per share.
Turning now to spending our R&amp;D expense for the full year 2011 was $124.8 million a 40% increase over 2010.
Fourth-quarter 2011 R&amp;D expense was $29.4 million in line with $29.6 million spent in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Recall the contracts and grants revenues and cost associated with non-controlling interests offset a portion of our R&amp;D expenses.
Taking into account these adjustments our net R&amp;D for full year 2011 was $47 million which is a 6% decline from 2010.
With respect to 2011 SG&amp;A spending for the full year SG&amp;A expenses were $74.3 million a decrease of 3% over 2010.
Fourth-quarter 2011 SG&amp;A expenses were $18.3 million versus $21.7 million in 2010.
As always we remain focused on managing growth in our general and administrative expenses.
Turning now to the balance sheet for the full year 2011 we continued to be cash flow positive and ended the year with cash and cash equivalents plus investments of $145.9 million and an accounts receivable balance of $74.2 million.
Finally let me address our 2012 financial forecast.
As Fuad noted earlier we are reaffirming our 2012 forecast of total revenues of $280 million to $300 million and net income after tax of $15 million to $25 million.
In addition for the first quarter of 2012 we are anticipating total revenues of between $40 million and $50 million.
I would like to wrap up my remarks by noting our 2011 achievements.
We delivered on our government contracts.
We secured a significant new procurement contract for BioThrax that provides five years of revenue visibility.
We progressed in the qualification and validation of Building 55 and we advanced the development of our clinical candidates.
For 2012 if we look forward to building on the successes of 2011.
Our business remains strong and we are confident of our prospects in 2012 in terms of financial performance contractual success and progress in product development.
Additionally we continue to focus on growing our business through M&amp;A.
That concludes my comments I will now turn the call over to the operator so that we can begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator please proceed.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Cory Kasimov please proceed.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Thanks for taking the questions and Fuad (inaudible) my congratulations to you on your retirement.
First of all at BioThrax with regard to the upcoming consistency lot manufacturing of Building 55 how long do you expect those runs are going to take and how do think you will or how you’re expecting to disclose the result? Thank you Cory for your kind words.
To answer your question we are in the process of gearing up consistency lot manufacturing.
We have in addition to the consistency lots of course non-clinical studies that need to be completed and will be continuing to manufacture in this facility to keep it warm and to build up an inventory of product.
Should we then be licensed in late 2014 to early 2015 we actually would have some product available for delivering.
Okay.
And then on the model two quick questions.
One is on your first quarter revenue guidance of $40 million to $50 million seems kind of low relative to your full-year guidance.
Is this once again being driven by lower yields to start the year is it something having to do with timing of deliveries or contract revenue or something else? And then the second one on the model of your planned R&amp;D spend in 2012 can you provide a rough split of how much is attributed to bio-defense related to bio-sciences? Thanks.
Yeah.
Let me take your first question first which is Q1 guidance.
If you look back historically at our first quarter it has always been less than average and the reason being is that we do our annual shut down for maintenance – annual maintenance every year in the September October timeframe.
So given that four months – of production cycle the months the four to six weeks that we’re shutdown usually demonstrate themselves in the first quarter.
So historically the first quarter is always a bit less than average.
And with respect to the R&amp;D spend we don’t really break that down in terms of (audio gap).
Are you still there? Our next question comes from Eric Schmidt.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
And congratulations Fuad to you as well on your new role.
I sounds like you were spending a little bit more time focusing on strategy and I guess I’m just wondering what exactly that might entail whether you’ll be looking more closely at cash redeployment M&amp;A buybacks dividends et cetera or maybe you could just describe a little bit more how you will be functioning with the company.
Thank you Eric for the congratulations.
I do look forward to transitioning to the new role and in that new role I will be focusing mostly on the M&amp;A piece.
Of course with it – it has strategic continued strategic development we have a strategic plan that the entire executive team has worked very closely together and we are all aligned and we are executing and our strategic processes that we’re implementing and have implemented to make sure that the process the growth process is optimized within the organization.
M&amp;A is something that we’ve been going through mergers and acquisitions and in the last two years we remain acquisitive and I’ll have now more time to personally spend on evaluating candidates and then once we’ve identified the right targets and hopefully to negotiate and complete the deal.
Okay.
Another question for Don on the tax rate tweaked up to 41% I think in the year 2011.
Could you discuss why that might be and kind of providing a sort of directional guidance that you might want on 2012? Sure.
If you take a look back over the past X number of years.
You’ll see that our tax rate has generally hovered around 40%.
Now in 2010 they were a number of different adjusting activities some from prior years et cetera that caused the rate to be below 40% for 2010.
But as we take a look at our overall tax profile and unfortunately we don’t have the luxury of certain foreign operation due – If you will shelter some of this income a 40% is pretty much what we expect on average year-over-year until such time as we get into a different profile of either states or different countries that we’re doing business in.
Eric rest assured that we had a merchant try to manage our taxes as best as we can.
And we have some external advisers to see to validate what we’re seeing here unfortunately that’s the place we’re in right now and we always look at opportunities to reduce taxes but that’s where we are.
Yeah.
We pursue aggressively all of the R&amp;D tax credits manufacturing deduction credits et cetera et cetera and it still comes out to be right around 40% on average.
Okay.
And then last question on BioThrax.
It looks like in the fourth quarter sales were down about 9% on volumes that were down a little lessen at 6%.
So is that the difference between the other the delta of 3% that the difference in price between old and new contracts or partial difference price? You’re seeing some of the ramifications so that yes Eric.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you Eric.
Thank you Eric.
Our next question comes from Mario Corso please proceed.
Yes thanks for taking my question and I (inaudible) congratulations to Fuad.
I guess on the yield issue I understand what you are saying about the shutdown in Q1 impact but given what you’ve seen lately maybe you feel good about where yields are and your ability to produce the 8.5 million doses for this year and then a couple of things modeling was gross margin and contract revenue both jumped quite a bit in the fourth quarter I’m wondering if there was anything in particular happening there? And I’m also wondering if there is any progress potentially re-partnering through ‘16? Thanks.
Thank you Mario for the wishes.
So to start with the first question on the yield we are very pleased with the progress we’re making in addressing the yields issues that we encountered last year we are looking at processes that further optimize process and minimize that the chances of experiencing other lower than expected yield year.
As I’ve always said that there is inherent variability in the growth characteristics of implementation process and when you produce a biologic – so and that range has been 7 million to 9 million doses a year well it hopes to be at that higher range and we’re taking steps to again increase the probabilities to get back out there.
Now with respect to the margins why don’t I ask Don to address that issue? Yeah.
When you take a look at margins generally speaking and as we referenced in the comments we expect gross margins at least with regard to product to stay on the 70% to 80% and if you go back over the past couple of years you’re going to see that that has remained in that range rather consistent.
And in any given quarter yes could you see it spike up a couple of percentage points an awful lot of that is as Fuad mentioned a four-month production cycle you’re going to see certain activities that are impacting gross margins that actually happened a number of months before depending upon how inventories are moving.
With respect to contracts and grants I think as you take a look at the significant government contracts and grant you’re going to say – see that (inaudible) building 55 generally our accounting for a very large proportional contracts and grants and on any given quarter you’re going to see those go up and down.
Now a particular influence in fourth-quarter was recognition of contract and grant activity associated with Abbot.
And so that is going to show that a little bit more spiking in activity in fourth quarter than normal.
And you’ll see all that in the K.
And to the third question as to partnering potential for 2016 we continue to be excited about that candidate.
The – as we’ve reported earlier are ongoing and we hope that the results will be promising so that we can continue development of 2016 in both disease areas.
We are open to repartnering we are looking at first generating the results and then evaluating the best timing to evaluate the whole partnering strategy.
(Operator instructions).
Our next question comes from Jason Canter.
Please proceed.
Thank you for taking the question.
I’m getting a little feedback on my line-out it’s not on yours as well.
Just on the 2016 program can you give us a sense of when you expect to get the efficacy data there and then what kind of hurdles are you looking for in order to take that going forward I mean is it becoming a very competitive space where you’re looking so I’m just wondering.
I assume we’re going to see activity the question is how much activity do you need to see to warrant moving forward? Thank you Jason.
I have sitting here next to me Dr.
Scott Stromatt who is our Chief Medical Officer and he is very familiar with the trials associated with the 2016.
So I will ask him to give you a greater detail.
(Inaudible) finished Phase 1b enrollment.
You’ll see that data at APS this year.
We will continue enrollment Phase 2 finish that this year so we’ll have topline data next year and then obviously more data at the end of probably 2013 at one of the medical meetings.
In terms of the efficacy hurdles usually in oncology like 30% to 50% difference in our sample size (inaudible).
Thank you Scott.
At this time there are no questions queued up.
I’d like to handle it back to Mr.
Bob Burrows.
Thank you Jeremy.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s call.
I would really appreciate everyone’s participation.
Please note that today’s call is being recorded and a replay will be available beginning later today through March 22.
Alternatively there is available of webcast of today’s call an archived version of which will be available later today accessible through the company’s website again at www.emergentbiosolutions.com and clicking on Investors tab Thank you again everyone and we look forward to speaking to you all in the future.
Goodbye.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Emergent BioSolutions Second Quarter of 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
My name is Ian and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Bob Burrows Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Ian.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss Emergent BioSolutions second quarter of 2012 financial results.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and it’s copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
The call today will start with a brief prepared comments by our President and Chief Executive Officer Dan Abdun-Nabi who will give an overview of our financial performance for the second quarter a brief business update and our 2012 forecast including revenue expectations for the third quarter.
Then our CFO Don Elsey will go through the financials in detail before we open up the call for your questions.
We have several other members of senior management available to respond to your questions.
Before we begin I’m compelled to remind everyone that during the call management may make projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events and the Company’s prospects for future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent’s current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
You are encouraged to review Emergent’s filing with the SEC on forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
For the benefit of those who may be listening to replay this call is held and recorded on August 2 2012.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today’s call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today’s press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today’s press release may be found on our website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com under investors/news.
And with that introduction I’d now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions President and CEO.
Dan? Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call today.
In my prepared comments I will review our results for the second quarter and year-to-date discuss our achievements for this quarter and highlight certain near-term milestones.
I will conclude my remarks with our guidance for the third quarter and for the full-year.
To begin our total revenues for the second quarter were just over $70 million.
This is within the guidance that we provided during our May conference call.
Year-to-date total revenues were approximately $121 million.
Net income for the quarter was $7.6 million and was approximately $800 000 for the first six months of the year.
Turning to our achievements during the second quarter we made progress on a number of initiatives.
We commenced the manufacturing of consistency lots in Building 55.
This represents a significant step towards licensure of this large scale BioThrax manufacturing facility.
Once completed the consistency lot material will be used in our pivotal non-clinical study.
The data from that study together with other comparability data will be reviewed by FDA as part of our licensure package.
Last year FDA indicated its overall support for our plan for regulatory approval of Building 55 without the need for conducting clinical trials.
This regulatory plan is based on achieving specified end points in our proposed comparability and non-clinical studies.
More recently during the second quarter FDA notified us that they concurred with the design of our pivotal non-clinical study.
If we’re successful in this plan we remain confident that licensure could occur in late 2014.
As a remainder we’re receiving development funding from BARDA to support the licensure of Building 55 for the manufacturer of BioThrax.
In terms of BioThrax improvements we accomplished two important milestones during the second quarter.
First FDA approved an amendment to our BioThrax generally used prophylaxis or GUP label.
The BioThrax label not provide for a three-dose primary series with booster doses thereafter.
This is an important milestone that was achieved with significant support by the U.S.
government .We believe the achievement of this milestone addresses a key requirement and enhances the value of BioThrax to our principle customers within the U.S.
government.
Second we completed enrolment in the pivotal immunogenicity study of BioThrax for a post-exposure prophylaxis or PEP indication.
This is being conducted under our current BARDA contract.
We also secured an additional BARDA contract to support a Phase 2 non-interference study related to a PEP indication for BioThrax.
Regarding PreviThrax a recombinant anthrax vaccine candidate we recently reviewed our progress with representatives from BARDA.
Based on that review we believe that BARDA will exercise an upcoming one-year option under the current development contract that we have with them.
We expect to receive formal notice of this exercise in the third quarter of this year.
Lastly HHS has awarded us a contract to establish a Center of Innovation in Advanced Development and Manufacturing.
This contract will involve the use of both our Baltimore and Gaithersburg sites.
Contracts were also awarded to Novartis and Texas A&amp;M which is partnered with GlaxoSmithKline.
These centers will address several HHS goals regarding public health emergencies including ensuring that the U.S.
can quickly develop and manufacture medical counter measures reducing U.S.
dependents on vaccines made in other countries and developing the next generating of Americas biotechnology workforce.
Our contract consistent with an initial eight-year cost reimbursable cost share base period of performance with a fixed price component that would result in funding to us up to a $163 million.
The base contract period includes securing a pandemic influenza  vaccine candidate constructing additional facilities to support pandemic influenza  vaccine production and obtaining facility licensure to manufacture a pandemic influenza vaccine at the Baltimore site.
The contract also contemplates up to 17 additional one-year options.
Further BARDA may issue task orders for additional services including the manufacture and delivery of up to 50 million doses of influenza  vaccine in the event of a pandemic and developing and manufacturing services to other companies developing counter measures against CBRN anthrax.
We’re currently evaluating several potential flu vaccine candidate that meet HHS requirements and that could be manufactured in our Baltimore site.
We expect to make our final selection in the near-term.
This award represents a long-term public private partnership with BARDA to help achieve our common goal of strengthening the nations preparedness and response to pandemic.
Turning now to the second half of this year we anticipate achieving the following key milestones in both our BioDefense and Bioscience divisions.
In terms of our BioDefense programs we expect to initiate the BioThrax PEP Phase 2 antibiotic noninterference study in addition we expect to initiate a Phase 2 clinical study of NuThrax also for a PEP indication.
Regarding milestones for our Bioscience program for TRU-016 in NHL we will complete the Phase 1b comparative study and we will make a determination regarding going forward with the Phase 2 study for TRU-016 in CLL recruitment is ongoing and patient dosing continues in the Phase 2 combination study.
The success of this Phase 2 combination study will determine whether a Phase 3 study is warranted.
We anticipate making that determination in mid 2013.
For MVA85A our tuberculosis vaccine candidate we anticipate receiving the data from the 2 800 infant Phase 2b field efficacy study at the end of the year or shortly thereafter.
As you may recall MVA85A is a one dose booster to BCG.
That’s in Asian Phase of the trial it has been completed and these entrants are now being observed.
Let me take a moment to discuss the public health red globally that should tuberculosis represents.
Approximately 2 billion people or 1/3 of the worlds population are estimated to be infected with the bacteria and our risk of developing tuberculosis.
According to the WHO approximately 1.5 million people die from TB every year worldwide.
Tuberculosis is the second leading cause of death from infectious disease globally and according to the CDC is the leading cause of death among HIV infected individuals.
As I had mentioned in prior calls the public health challenge has been intensified by the rise of TB strains that fail to respond to the most affected TB treatments.
The global healthcare community is increasingly focused on the TB issue.
In fact in a press release issued in March of this year the President of the Global Health Program at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation said and I quote there is an urgent need for the global community to support the full range of tools to eliminate tuberculosis.
But the development of TB vaccines that can prevent men women and children from developing the disease would be the single greatest events in the global fight against TB.
We’re actively participating in a number of organizations worldwide involved in addressing the global health concern collaborated with Aeras The Wellcome Trust SATVI NIAID Oxford University EDCTP and other key opinion leaders all in pursuit of the solution to this substantial unmet global heath need.
This collaborations have enabled us to conduct the field efficacy study as well as other clinical trials and to engage in other efforts in order to clarify a rapid path to licensure.
We’ve also engaged in discussions with representatives of the WHO regarding MVA85A and our approach to the TB issue.
Given the heavy disease burden worldwide and the recognized need for a new TB vaccine we may depending on the data from the ongoing study be in a position to pursue accelerated or conditional approval for MVA85A in selected countries.
With respect to the market opportunities for MVA85A we’ve four commercial rights to approximately 55 high income and middle income countries including in the EU Russia and Brazil as well as in the private markets in both India and China.
Within our commercial market this represents a significant market opportunity for Emergent.
So in summary MVA85A offers a promise of addressing a significant global health threat while representing a substantial commercial opportunity for Emergent.
Finally let me conclude with our guidance.
In the third quarter we’re forecasting total revenues between $60 million to $70 million and the full-year we’ve reaffirm our guidance of total revenues between $280 million to $300 million and net income between $15 million to $25 million.
That concludes my prepared comments.
And now I will turn it over to Don who will take you through the numbers in greater detail.? Thank you Dan.
Good afternoon everyone.
Following the close of the markets today we released our financial results for the second quarter of 2012.
I encourage everyone to take a look at the press release which is currently available on our website.
We plan to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the SEC no later than the close of business tomorrow Friday August 3rd.
The 10-Q will also be available on our website.
Let me now briefly discuss the numbers.
Second quarter 2012 total revenues were $70.4 million versus $88.1 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Total revenues for the first six months of 2012 were a $120.7 million versus a $106.7 million for the first half of 2011.
Diving a little deeper year-to-date product sales revenues were $87.5 million versus $77.1 million for the first six months of last year.
This increase was driven by a 23% increase in the number of BioThrax doses delivered.
Year-to-date contracts and grants revenues were $33.2 million versus $29.6 million for the same period last year.
This increase was primarily due to increased activity under our BARDA development contract for Building 55 and PreviThrax.
Turning to gross margins our gross margin in Q2 2012 was approximately 75% which is within our typical range of between 70% and 80%.
Gross margin for the first six months of 2012 was approximately 76%.
Turning to the bottom line second quarter 2012 net income was $7.6 million or $0.21 per basic share as compared to $14.2 million or $0.40 per basic share in the second quarter of 2011.
Net income for the first six months of 2012 was $800 000 or $0.02 per share as compared to a net loss of $7.2 million or a loss of $0.20 per share for the first half of 2011.
Year-to-date net income reflects the impact of the $9.6 million non-cash charge in the first quarter.
If you adjust for this non-cash charge 2012 year-to-date net income were $7.8 million or $0.22 per share.
Turning now to spending.
Our R&amp;D expenses for the second quarter of 2012 were $30.6 million compared to $31.5 million in the same period last year.
I’d like to highlight that contracts and grants revenues and costs associated with noncontrolling interest in our joint ventures offset a portion of our gross R&amp;D expenses.
When we take these into account our net R&amp;D for Q2 2012 was $11.3 million.
R&amp;D expenses for the first six months of 2012 were $56.9 million compared to $66.2 million in the first six months of 2011.
Again adjusting for contracts and grants revenues and noncontrolling interest in our joint ventures the net R&amp;D for the first half of 2012 was $20.4 million.
Our SG&amp;A expenses for the second quarter of 2012 were $17.9 million compared to $20.4 million in the second quarter of 2011.
The decrease is primarily attributable to the restructuring charges related to our U.K.
operations that we incurred in 2011.
SG&amp;A expenses for the first six months of 2012 were $37.4 million compared to $38.6 million for the first half of 2011.
Turning now to the balance sheet we ended the second quarter of 2012 with cash and cash equivalents of $161.8 million and an accounts receivable balance of $46.8 million.
That concludes my comments.
I will now turn the call over to the operator so that we can begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator please proceed.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Cory Kasimov of JP Morgan.
Please proceed.
Hey good afternoon guys and thanks for taking my questions.
I have a few of them for you.
First of all just wondering if the FDA approval of the new three dose primary series for BioThrax if that has any impact on pricing going forward? No Cory.
By the way thanks for participating today.
No it doesn’t have any impact on pricing under the contract.
Okay.
And then Don are you able to talk a little bit about the logistics of your planned buyback is there any granularity or anything you can give us there? Yeah I think in terms of timing and next steps we as you know have Board approval we’ve announced that.
We now through the mechanisms that would be established under a formal plan and we expect that would be initiated sometime in the very near term.
Okay.
And then lastly and I missed part of what you had said on the pending TB data.
So I am sorry if you’re repeating this; but do you have a sense of what your next steps are going to be if the Phase 2b results are positive at the end of this year? Yeah I think what we’ve talked about and we’ve already had some preliminary discussions with some key opinion leaders and representatives in the public health community an approach that might permit for either accelerated or conditional approval.
And we do need to sit down with regulatory authorities and to find exactly how that will work.
But big picture the concept would be; we would be approved to manufacture and supply the product in select territories to start to begin to address the public health threat while at the same time either undertaking follow-on Phase 3 study or some other level of activity that would support the data that we saw in the Phase 2b and the exact parameters and what that might look like remains to be decided but I think a lot is – as I said a lot will be depending on what the data looks like.
Okay.
So something potentially along the lines of an accelerated approval for a cancer drug for example in the United States? I think that’s a fair comparator.
But again it’s premature to give too much definition to it but that’s our concept exactly.
Okay.
All right great.
Thank you very much.
That’s helpful.
Thank you for your question.
The next question comes from the line of Nicholas Bishop of Cowen.
Your line is live.
Please proceed.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thanks.
First just a couple of financial ones for Don.
I wonder if you can give us any qualitative guidance on the contract and grants line over the next two quarters I mean I know you know what the annual guidance is but you alluded to some potential new contracts in the third quarter.
Is the third quarter likely to be higher than the fourth or is there any help you can give us there? Generally speaking as we take a look at the consolidation of contracts and grants and putting [Avium] aside for a moment.
I would say that it’s a fairly straight line over the next two quarters Nick well we don’t breakout specific guidance on those it of course depends on a variety of milestones that are being reached with various contracts and approval from various agencies to proceed with various steps.
So it’s always a little hard to tell even from within the company.
But I think relatively evenly divided over the next couple of quarters on contracts and grants putting [Avium] aside let me just make a quick comment on the [Avium] as we talked about earlier when we announced [Avium] we don’t anticipate it will have a material impact on 2012 and we anticipate that we will have the accounting for that scored away certainly in the latter part of this year and we’ll explain that more fully as we come to conclusion with the SEC and we’ll reflect that in our guidance for 2013 when we publish that in January of next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great that’s helpful.
And then on BioThrax I guess based on your guidance and the pattern for last year it’s reasonable to assume a pretty large fourth quarter on that; is that fair to say? That is correct given our annual guidance reaffirmation and the Q3 guidance that we gave you its quick mathematical exercise and it will be a large fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one; I wonder if you could on the Building 55 process just remind us kind of the timing and kind of gating factors in completing the pivotal and comparability studies and what the design of those studies is? Yeah so let me start and then I would like to have Adam Havey the President of our BioDefense Division to add a little color.
As we indicated really the plan that’s been worked out with FDA is based on comparability and non-clinical programs and we have reached agreement as to what those endpoints are to look like.
So we’re now initiating the process of conducting those studies and Adam can give you a little bit better clarity in terms of timeline and what the milestones going forward to BLA submission might look like.
Yeah thanks.
At a high level as Dan mentioned we initiated our consistency lots which is the – kind of the first step in the process and we’ll wrap those up in this quarter that will then lead into the start of our pivotal non-clinical study and that will run primarily through 2013.
And then we’ll prepare our FDA submissions submit it to the FDA and go through the standard of regulatory approval process and hopefully with licensure late 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you for the question.
Next question comes from the line of Mario Corso of Caris &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Yes thank you for taking my question.
So for the second quarter your revenue numbers came in towards the low-end of your guidance.
So as we think about the BioThrax I’m wondering what you can say about the quarter and going forward kind of where you are on a yield basis where you are on a shipment basis did something there not occur as well as it could have in order to hit a better part or the upper part of your guidance.
And then in terms of the Building 55 lots I assume that will be – [on serially] so will you be getting some data soon and will that be shared with us or is it just continue on as planned.
And then finally on NHL can you talk a little bit more there about what the go no-go decision is going to be based upon? Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Let me start – thank you for the question.
So in terms of the revenue if you look back to the first quarter for example we were at the very upper ends of our guidance and this quarter it was sort of at the low-end of the guidance.
So we do our best based on the production schedule and deliveries and to give a sense for where we’re going to come out on the revenue basis but it doesn’t always work perfectly according to plan.
But I think we typically historically have said look at the whole user.
But in an effort to give further visibility to you as you look at our company we’ve broken this down on a quarterly basis.
So sometimes it will come in in the high side sometimes it will come in in the low side but I think historically we’ve been pretty good about hitting our range numbers.
So I wouldn’t read anything into that.
It’s just normal variance in terms of output and delivery.
In terms of the Building 55 lots I am not sure I understand the question.
The consistency lots are going to be produced we’ve initiated that would then lead into the conduct of the studies that Adam has described.
So I don’t think there’s any interim data that you would see you would run the studies and you collect the data and then you submit the package to FDA big picture.
So it’s not like there is an open-label study that’s being conducted that would allow for an interim analysis that we could give you some guidance on over the course of that period.
And I guess on the NHL can you repeat the question I didn’t jot it down in time.
I just wanted to hear your thoughts about what the go; no-go decision is going to be based upon how you’re looking at that at this point? Yeah so as we said we're waiting in completion of that we’ll look at the data and then make a specific determination.
Jim Jackson who is the Head of the Therapeutics on there and our CSO.
Jim you want to add a little color as to some of the metrics we all look at.
Ph.D</strong> Sure yeah.
As Dan said we are in the process of analyzing the data from that 1b study.
And as you know that was a study where we were looking at the additive effect of TRU-016 in combination with Bendamustine and Rituximab.
It was a small study only 12 subjects to it.
We are probably looking somewhere around an improvement in the overall CR rate of about 30% over BR alone as kind of a threshold value for the additive effect of TRU-016.
We are planning on getting this data together and presenting it later in the year probably at ASH so that would be a time when we’ll really kind of roll this information out publicly.
Thank you for the question.
Our next question comes from the line of Ian Somaiya of Piper Jaffray.
Your line is live.
Please proceed.
Hi good afternoon everyone it’s Matthew on for Ian.
I just want to go back to the flu opportunity quickly.
And I just was wondering if you could give a sense of maybe or an update on what your expectations are for – what we’ve been thinking about maybe just like a baseline volume for the flu contract.
Obviously total volume would be driven by the occurrence of a pandemic outbreak but if you could maybe dimensionalize for us a little b4it what the baseline stock comp might look like and what the timing of that might be on an ongoing basis that will be great.
Thank you.
Yeah thank you for your question Matthew.
So the [Avium] contract has a component to it that’s not fixed in terms of delivery of up to 50 million doses and that’s really not part of the base contract.
Really what is contemplated now is that we would obtain licensure in a Baltimore site once we’ve selected the proper candidate and then I think it’s going to be really up to the government to determine it.
What its requirements are? Which products it would procure at what levels? Clearly the government is looking for multiple suppliers multiple product candidates and is investing in the development to get them across the goal line and obtain licensure.
But I think it’s a little bit premature to be talking about specific contract procurements at this point.
We hope as the program matures and develops we’ll have better clarity and we’ll be able to pass that along to you with respect to vaccine stockpile amounts.
But you know it is a priority from the government.
They do have stockpiles in place today.
They are developing additional candidates.
They are now establishing these centers of innovation for advanced development and manufacturing.
So it remains a priority from the government and we’re quite pleased that we’re a part of it.
Okay great.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for your question.
Just to let you know sir at this time we have no further questions.
(Operator Instructions) We have no further question’s that has come through into the queue.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Bob Borrows for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Thank you Ian.
In conclusion the Emergent’s business is strong and growing as the premier provider of medical countermeasures against the anthrax with the U.S.
Government.
We continue to enhance the value and utility of BioThrax and to progress for a licensure of our large scale manufacturing facility.
At the newly announced Center for Innovation in Advanced Development and Manufacturing we reported the long-term opportunity to help strengthen the Company’s commitment public health preparedness and the key participants in the fight against TB.
We continue to work with our partners collaborators and key stakeholders worldwide to advance our leading TB vaccines candidate MVA85A.
Ladies and gentlemen that’s all the time we have today.
Thank you for your participation.
Please note that today’s call has been recorded and a reply will be available beginning later today through August 16.
Alternatively there is available a webcast of today's call an archived version of which will be available later today accessible through the Company's website.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Goodbye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today’s call.
This concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Emergent BioSolutions third quarter 2012 financial results conference call.
My name is Grant and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is also being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to your Mr.
Bob Burrows Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Grant.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss Emergent BioSolutions' third quarter and year-to-date 2012 financial results and recently announced growth plans through 2015.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call this afternoon with prepared comments will be our President and Chief Executive Officer Dan Abdun-Nabi and Chief Financial Officer Don Elsey.
Several other members of senior management team will be available to respond to your questions during the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I am compelled to remind everyone that during the call management may make projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events and the company's prospects or future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
You are encouraged to review Emergent's filing with the SEC on forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
For the benefit of those who may be listening to the replay this call is held and recorded on November 1 2012.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today's call.
So again please do reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today's press release may be found on our website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com under investors/news.
With that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions' President and CEO.
Dan? Well thank you Bob.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining on our call today.
During my prepared comments I will review cover two broad topics.
First I will discuss our financial and operational performance for the past quarter and the year-to-date.
Then I will discuss in greater detail the growth plans through 2015 that we announced this morning.
To begin let me review our financials for the period.
Our total revenues for the third quarter were approximately $67 million.
This is within the guidance that we provided during our August conference call.
Year-to-date total revenues were just over $187 million.
Net income for the quarter were $6.6 million and net income for the first nine months of the year were $7.4 million.
Turning to our achievements during the third quarter.
We made significant progress in a number of areas.
In our biodefense division we completed the manufacturing of BioThrax consistency lots in Building 55 and final product testing of these lots continues to move forward.
Regarding PreviThrax our Recombinant Anthrax Vaccine candidate we announced that BARDA exercised a one-year contract option to further advance the development of this program.
This option was exercised based upon PreviThrax.
Having met all of the key milestones and after BARDA completed interagency process review.
In our biosciences division we initiated a Phase 2 study of TRU-016 in combination with bendamustine for relapsed refractory CLL.
Recruiting for this study is on track with data expected next year.
Meanwhile we completed the Phase 1b comparative study evaluating TRU-016 in combination with bendamustine and rituximab in relapsed indolent NHL The data from that study indicated that the combination therapy had an acceptable safety profile and there was evidence of clinical activity.
Finally during the quarter we initiated a $35 million share repurchase program.
Now I would like to discuss our near-term milestones.
First our biodefense programs.
We anticipate completing all testing for our building 55 consistency lots in Q1 2013.
Once completed the consistency lot material will be used in our pivotal nonclinical study which we expect to initiate in Q2 2013.
The data from that study together with other comparability data will be reviewed by FDA as part of our licensing package.
We continue to anticipate that we will be in a position to file for regulatory approval for building 55 in 2014.
With respect to a postexposure prophylaxis or pep indication for BioThrax we expect to initiate a Phase 2 antibiotic noninterference study by year-end.
We anticipate this will be the final clinical study required in order to secure the pep indication.
That trial is expected to be completed in mid-2014.
In addition Q1 next year we expect to initiate a Phase 2 immunogenicity study for nuthrax also for a pep indication.
Finally with respect to our recently announced AVM contract with HHS we are currently evaluating several potential flu vaccine candidates that meet HHS' requirements and that could be manufactured in our Baltimore facility.
We expect to make our final selection before year end.
We also have several near-term milestones for our biosciences program.
We have three abstracts accepted for presentation at the at ASH conference in December.
Two for TRU-016 one in CLL and one in NHL as well as one for (inaudible) technology platform.
These abstracts will be made public on November 5 on the ASH website.
The data is very encouraging and we look forward to discussing these results once the abstracts are released.
For MVA85A our tuberculosis vaccine candidate we anticipate receiving the data from the 2 800 infant Phase 2b efficacy study in early first quarter 2013.
As you may recall MVA85A is a one dose booster to BCG.
The vaccination base of the trial has been completed and these infants are now being observed.
Given the heavy disease burden worldwide and the recognized need for new TB vaccines we may depending on the data from the ongoing study be in a position to pursue accelerated or conditional approval for MVA85A in selected countries.
In addition for TRU-016 in CLL enrollment is ongoing and patient dosing continues in the Phase 2 comparative study evaluating TRU-016 in combination with bendamustine in relapsed CLL.
We recently received approval from our data monitoring committee to continue this trial unchanged.
Data from this study will determine whether a Phase 3 is warranted and we anticipate making that determination next year.
As you may have seen yesterday we announced the start of the Phase 1b comparative study evaluating TRU-016 in combination with rituximab and in frontline CLL.
We expect to enrollment of this study in the first half of next year with data being available by the end of 2013.
Finally we reaffirm our 2012 full-year guidance of total revenues of $280 million to $300 million split between product sales of $220 million to $230million and grants and contracts revenue of between $60 million to $70 million and net income of between $15 million to $25 million.
Let me now move on to discussing the growth plan that we announced this morning.
Since my employment as CEO of Emergent in April my team and I have developed a growth plan that continues and expands upon our history of success.
This plan establishes the key drivers for how we intend to pursue growth and clearly defines our vision for our mid-term goals and the overall future direction of the company.
The plan was developed after evaluating and assessing a number of inputs including our business definition specifically who we are and what we seek to achieve along with our core competencies.
What capabilities do we have that are unique or specialized that can be leveraged or deployed to advantage? We assessed the expectations of our stakeholders.
How can we best deliver on commitments to and the expectations of our customers our employees and other key stakeholders? We evaluated external market and competitive factors as well as the views opinions and expectations of our stockholders as I have heard them expressed over the course of the past six months.
With this backdrop I would like to share with you my views on how we define our business what are the strategic goals how we assess our core competencies and what are the core strategies we intend to use to achieve these goals.
Our business definition is simple.
Our mission is to protect and enhance life by offering specialized products to healthcare providers and governments to address medical needs and emerging health threats.
Under the growth plan we intend to advance our leadership position in the biodefense field and to expand our product offerings in specialty pharma markets.
This will enable us to expand revenues grow net income and create shareholder value.
To that end we have established the following key financial and operational goals to be achieved by the end of 2015.
First generate annual product revenue of greater than $500 million.
Second achieve a three-year and that’s 2012 to 2015 compound net income growth rate of greater than 15%.
Third secure diversified revenues from at least three marketed specialty products.
The core competencies that we intend to build upon to support and enable our growth includes our recognized leadership position in the biodefense field that we can leverage to advance our existing pipeline and to acquire new products for the specialty market.
The breadth and depth of our resources and expertise in biologics manufacturing and advance stage product development the expertise and capabilities that we possess in government and NGO contracting and partnering and lastly our experience and expertise in structuring in closing acquisition transactions.
By leveraging these core competencies we plan to execute on the following core strategy.
First we seek to acquire revenue-generating products that are synergistic with our existing operations and competencies.
This approach is designed to secure revenue generating products in the biodefense and other specialty markets where our existing infrastructure and improve performance and contributions.
This approach will advance us towards the achievement of our 2015 goals.
By increasing top line product revenue enhancing contributions to net income growth and providing product revenue diversification.
Secondly we will focus product development efforts on promising late stage candidates that satisfy well-defined criteria and limit earlier stage development activities on less funded by external sources.
This approach is designed to advance us towards the achievement of our 2015 goals by advancing only those programs that have achieved clinically important milestones that justify further research and development investments.
Also by enhancing the value of development expenditures by focusing on products that have the potential for a nearer term regulatory approval and further by minimizing early-stage research and development costs that are not funded by third parties.
Lastly in terms of the core strategy we will continue to partner with third-party such as governments and NGOs.
This approach is designed to advance us towards the achievement of our 2015 growth by mitigating operational risk through the knowledge capabilities and expertise provided by partners and collaborators and by offsetting development expenditures through non-dilutive funding.
Critical to the success of this growth plan will be to focus on revenue expansion a disciplined R&amp;D spending plan and controlling for G&amp;A costs.
All of which will contribute to the targeted growth and net income.
As you know we operate in two separate business divisions biodefense and bioscience.
The growth plan impacts operations of these divisions in slightly different ways.
In the biodefense division we will focus on the following.
Continue to increase BioThrax revenues from our existing facility building 12 then we will further expand BioThrax product sales following licensure of building 55 which we anticipate in late 2014 or early 2015.
We also seek to leverage manufacturing resources and capabilities to contribute to revenue growth and product expansion and we will seek to target the acquisition of revenue-generating products which means we will be evaluating products that broaden our focus beyond just anthrax and beyond biologics to address the U.S.
government's requirements across the entire biodefense spectrum.
We are also looking at revenue generating products that have to true use potential across both biodefense and commercial markets as well as products that are currently sold or have ready appeal to both the U.S.
and foreign government agencies.
We are evaluating products that leverage our core competencies in government contracts and negotiations and products that capitalize on our status as a proven respected and trusted partner to allied governments.
We also will continue R&amp;D where it's funded or substantially funded under government contracts and grants and finally we will further control costs in G&amp;A and unfunded R&amp;D.
For the biosciences division operation we will focus on the following.
First we will target acquiring product revenues within specialty focus areas such as products that are used by specialty physicians in targeted disease areas or products that are used in a hospital setting.
We will look to partner out our late stage product candidates as appropriate to provide immediate and long-term value enhancement as progress is promises achieved.
We also look to partner out our platform technologies to mitigate development risk and drive future value.
Lastly we will look to limit early-stage R&amp;D costs that are not supported by external funding sources.
In our corporate operations generally we will focus on controlling our G&amp;A costs to operate more efficiently while supporting our program priorities.
In summary we have established definitive financial and operational goals to be achieved by the end of 2015.
Please note and this is important we will not achieve these growth targets in one year nor do we anticipate that our growth towards this target will be evenly spread year-to-year we approach 2015.
Thus investors should not expect that all of our growth in the last year of this plan nor should investors expect that our revenue growth will be linear or that we will achieve 15% net income growth every year.
Rather we intend to drive towards these goals by expanding revenues from our marketed product acquiring synergistic revenue generating our products in biodefense and other specialty markets focusing product development efforts on promisingly late stage candidates expanding collaborations with third parties such as governments and NGOs limiting early-stage R&amp;D costs that are not supported by external funding and further controlling our G&amp;A expenditures.
By remaining focused on who we are this plan describes how best to tap into our core competencies while simultaneously focusing on astute and judicious spending in order to continue our history of growth and success.
I believe this approach is smart aggressive and achievable.
I see great opportunities ahead for our company for our employees and for our customers and partners and for creating shareholder value both in the near and long-term.
This concludes my prepared comments and I will now turn it over to Don who will take you through the third quarter numbers in greater detail.
Don? Thank you Dan good morning everyone.
Prior to the open of the markets today we released our financial results for the third quarter 2012.
I encourage everyone to take a look at the press release which is currently available on our website.
We plan to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the SEC no later than the close of business tomorrow Friday November 2.
The 10-Q will also be available on our website.
Let me now briefly discuss the numbers.
Third quarter 2012 total revenues were $66.6 million versus $58.8 million in the third quarter 2011.
Total revenues for the first nine months of 2012 were $187.3 million versus $165.4 million for the first nine months of 2011.
Diving a little deeper year-to-date product sales revenues were $141.5 million versus $120.7 million for the first nine months last year.
This increase was primarily due to an increase in doses of BioThrax delivered partially offset by a lower sales price per dose.
Year-to-date contracts and grants revenues were $45.8 million versus $44.7 million for the same period last year.
This increase was primarily due to increased activity in associated revenue from our partner development contracts.
Turning to gross margins.
Our gross margin in Q3 2012 was approximately 81% which is modestly higher than our typical range of between 70% and 80%.
Gross margin for the first nine months of 2012 was approximately 78%.
Turning to the bottom line.
Third quarter 2012 net income was $6.6 million or $0.18 per basic share as compared to $1.5 million or $0.04 per basic share in the third quarter of 2011.
Net income for the first nine months of 2012 was $7.4 million or $0.21 per share as compared to a net loss of $5.6 million or a loss of $0.16 per share for the first nine months of 2011.
As you may recall the year-to-date net income reflects the impact of a $9.6 million non-cash charge in the first quarter related to the impairment of in-process R&amp;D.
Turning now to spending.
Our R&amp;D expenses for the third quarter 2012 were $27.4 million compared to $29.2 million in the same period last year.
I would like to highlight that contracts and grants revenues and cost associated with non-controlling interest in our joint ventures offset a portion of our gross R&amp;D expenses.
When we take these into account our net R&amp;D for Q3 2012 was $13.8 million.
R&amp;D expenses for the first nine months of 2012 were $84.3 million compared to $95.5 million in the first nine months of 2011.
Again adjusting for contracts and grants revenues and non-controlling interest in our joint ventures the net R&amp;D for the first nine months of 2012 was $34.3 million.
Our SG&amp;A expenses for the third quarter 2012 were $19.2 million compared to $17.1 million in the third quarter 2011.
The increase in this period is primarily attributable to increased personnel and professional services.
SG&amp;A expenses for the first nine months of 2012 were $56.5 million compared to $56 million for the first nine months of 2011.
Turning now to the balance sheet.
We ended the third quarter 2012 with cash and cash equivalents of $197.9 million and an accounts receivable balance of $17.1 million.
Just wrapping up our share repurchase at this point in time we repurchased approximately 400 000 thousand shares at a price of $5.9 million.
That concludes my comments.
I will now turn the call over the operator so that we can begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator please proceed.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Cory Kasimov from J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
It is actually Matt Lowe in for Cory today.
Just a couple of questions.
First one is when the Phase 2 TB vaccine gets released just wondering how much detail will you be able to give us in that release? What might be in it? Secondly just any more comments on potential ongoing BD efforts contributing to the 2015 growth plan? Sure in terms of the release itself I think we are working out with our partners the actual plan for releasing the data.
As you can appreciate Gates through the (inaudible) institute is very interested as is Oxford and Wellcome Trust.
Then there are also the South African partners that we work with.
So the actual details of the communication plan are currently being finalized.
So I can't give you specifics yet in terms of how that is going to work.
but certainly in early Q1 next year you will see the details.
I think the team is also anticipating that there would be a publication in a well-recognized journal of the full results of the study.
So stay tuned for more on that one.
In terms of the BD efforts we have a number of ongoing activities with respect to potential targets and they are numerous and I would say broad and I am pleased with the progress that is being made.
They are in various stages of evolution from early stage to later stage but stay tuned for further announcements on that.
I think a priority for us as I indicated is that we would like to complete the AVM selection process and make that announcement by year-end.
So you can look for that.
Thank you for your question there.
Our next question comes from the line of Nicolas Bishop from Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead.
I have a couple of questions on the three year growth plan.
The first one is just to clarify of the free marketed specialty products that you talked about.
One of those is BioThrax I assume.
Just confirm that’s correct.
Then I wonder if you could provide any more granularity on the $500 million plus revenue guidance.
How much of that do you envision being BioThrax versus something else because it seems to me you could get there on BioThrax alone if building 55 is approved.
Yes so thank you for joining us this morning.
So BioThrax is certainly one of the three.
So your observation is correct.
In terms of the allocation of the breakdown of the products by revenue.
Again I think we set a target for ourselves.
I am not at this point prepared to give an assessment of how it works.
Remember that our current contract with the CDC runs through 2016 and we still have yet to work out how we are going to introduce building 55 material into the mix.
So I am really not in position to give you specifics on that but our evaluation as we look at it is we should be able to achieve the target that we set out there.
We are comfortable with that.
We have done the analysis.
We have look at potential product opportunities for acquisition and on balance I think we will be able to hit that the target that we have set out there for you.
Then just two follow-ups on the plan.
I guess I will ask the first one and let you respond and that is can you get to your revenue targets just on the basis of the programs that are extending your pipeline today or do you need to make external acquisitions to get there? So as we look at our pipeline today we don't see beyond the BioThrax in building 55 other products coming to market within the planned period by the end of 2015.
So we are looking at acquisitions to support expanded BioThrax sales.
Okay and then I guess just one bigger picture sort of strategy kind of question.
That is if you could just explain I guess that the motivation for providing this guidance today especially taking into account that it assumes acquisitions of the products you don't yet own.
Just what's the intent of providing this big picture now as opposed to maybe after you have closed something? Yes and I think that’s a good question.
We have been evaluating the direction of the company.
What are the ways in which we want to build and grow on our history of success? A couple of things.
We felt it was very important to be transparent with our shareholders and investors in terms of where we are taking the company and to lay out there specific milestones that we have set for our ourselves and allow our investors to measure our progress towards those milestones.
A couple of other things that make our unique refinements which is we have given real financial goals.
We have put out there now a growth target for the bottom line which historically we have not set.
We have put out a top line growth figure.
Again historically we have not given that kind of granularity and specificity.
So I think that is an important element of communication today.
Also we have communicated to you on what we think our core competencies are and how we think we can leverage those core competencies.
Our competence in the biodefense field as a specialty market we think that is growth opportunity and we believe that we have competencies which cut across under specialty fields that we can leverage to build the business.
I am quite confident that the acquisition strategy that we have laid out here can be implemented successfully both in the near and midterm.
So my view on it is yes while there is some risk and I am glad you recognized there is some risk I think the risk is manageable and the plan is achievable.
So the point here was really to lay out for you how we see the path forward give you some milestones down the road that we are targeting and we are seeking to achieve tell you how we are going to get there and allow you then to measure our progress as a management team in achieving those goals.
Okay that was really helpful.
Thanks a lot and if I can just sneak in one last one.
On the fourth quarter either for Dan or Don.
Looking at our model if we put revenues even near the low end of guidance the net income seems to come towards the top or even above guidance.
Is there a possibility that there could be a spike in one of the expense items in the fourth quarter or could there even be P&amp;L related acquisition expenses it seems that or could you comment on that? Thank you for the question.
With respect to Q4 with respect to our guidance for the full year there are no acquisition expenses anticipated in there.
I can't comment on your model per se but with the expenses that we project for fourth quarter which are normal.
I anticipated expenses in support of our programs going forward and the revenues that we are projecting we see the guidance as being appropriate.
Thank you for your question there.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Kantor from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my question.
I was just wondering if you could give us some idea of what kind of hurdle you are looking for in your go-no-go decision in CLL? I assume it's an increasingly crowded space with lots of different drugs.
What do you need to see to make determine to make that investment and would you make investment yourself or does that require a partner? Thank you for the question.
In terms of the actual target endpoints maybe Scott Stromatt our CMO Chief Medical Officer can take that piece and then I will come back on the partnering question.
Sure.
In terms of response rates we are looking at 30% to 50% response rates.
What's interesting is that although it is a crowded field there is no cure to the agent and given the cure (inaudible) inhibitors they have mice activity but again they are the cure.
So I think the real promise in a field like combination and that’s what very encouraging with TRU-016.
So we when we do common (inaudible) study in animal the marked effort would be and our goal is to move towards non- chemotherapy combinations which won't have a mild depression and won't have the secondary malignancy that's current with the combination (inaudible).
In terms of partnering out as part of my comments on the growth plan that’s absolutely on the table.
We will evaluate the data from the study.
Make a determination as the next steps and my expectation is we would look to have some discussions around partnering and make a determination whether it is the right time it is right deal whether we should invest on our own to get to the next inflection point or partner at that point.
So stay tuned but in terms of overall strategy partnering late stage candidates is certainly part of the approach that we are taking and it really depends on the product the market and the deal.
Thank you for your question there.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Luchini from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Just a couple if I may.
The first is as it relates to the TB vaccine and that the data there.
Is the definition of success in your mind black or white are there specific hurdle rate that you are looking for relative to the booster plus vaccine versus vaccine alone? Or is there gray outcome as well? I think in the past you have mentioned maybe 40% to 50% improvement? Is that a hard and fast line? What happens if the data comes a little bit below that?  If you could just share your thoughts on that that will be great.
Thank you.
That’s a great question.
As you know as we commented before there are a lot of eyes on this trial and the results of the study.
The endpoint is vaccine efficacy of 50% or greater that’s what we were hoping the trial will provide.
However there is widespread acceptance of the fact that even below 50% this vaccine could have tremendous public health benefits.
We have heard numbers as low as 30%.
So 30% to 50% is that the gray zone? Yes very well could be the gray zone.
We would have to then evaluate what the data is telling us look at the full scope of the data that’s provided by the results of the study have some discussions with key opinion leaders public health authorities and the regulatory agencies and then devise a path forward based on that use your words the gray zone.
But from a public health perspective even vaccine efficacy in that range could be very very beneficial.
We will just have to see how we develop the product at that point.
Looking at the things you laid out in the growth plan I was just curious.
You have outlined some core competencies and some other things here.
You talk a little bit about hoping to target on bioscience side hospital oriented products.
I was just wondering from your prospective from a commercial point of view.
What do you see is your competitive advantages in terms of selling into that space? If you could just share some thoughts on that that would be great.
Thanks.
That is a great question.
We as a team have talked about that at length.
Candidly if we were going to do an acquisition for that space it will be a product coupled with commercialization capability and expertise because we recognize that we don't have that internally at Emergent now.
So first foray into that the market would be product coupled with commercialization capability followed by our hope would be we would continue to stand on that business by following it up with other acquisitions that could be carried by the commercialization team to address that market.
If I am understanding you then that would somewhat suggest company acquisition at least on the early side as opposed to a license strategy is that a correct interpretation of your last comment? It is somewhat correct because what we are seeing out there is that there are product opportunities that come with a sales force.
There are small divisions of companies out there that are available if you will for transacting.
Of course you are right there could also be "company acquisition" which will address that issue.
So it's not necessarily a company but certainly the capabilities around commercialization would be part of that initial foray.
Thank you for your question there.
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Wade.
Please go ahead.
If I could just follow up on Nic's questions regarding the bogie for the delta and revenue.
Existing products are quite trading at three to five times revenue.
What type of revenue stream are you trying to pull in through an acquisition? Does your $500 million target as you expecting fully to be online by the end with the TB vaccine play in to that number and some commentary around how much bigger you think BioThrax gets with building 55 would be helpful.
Investors consider how dilution are you willing to undertake in order to achieve your goals.
Thanks.
Thank you for the question Greg very helpful.
Starting with the BioThrax piece again I think there is too much uncertainty right now about how 55 is going to get feathered into the deliverables on the CDC.
So it's is going to be very difficult until we have start to have more specific conversation giving you specifics around that.
In terms of the other product opportunities the targets that we are looking at are ways in which we can acquire product opportunities where we can actually build on the business and make it more valuable in our hands than in somebody else's hands and that is where if we look at for example our expertise in government contracting and delivering to governments whether its U.S.
or foreign or creating a portfolio of products that address stated requirements whether its health threats or biodefense targets.
So what we are trying to do is really leverage what we have got acquire at a value which is below what we think we can build internally and create value through the acquisition.
So my expectation is that the targets that you will see that we announced on may on first flush not be as large as we think top line and bottom line contributions can be because that’s from my perspective the rationale for doing a transaction.
We have got to be able to acquire something that in our hands could be more valuable or would be more valuable than it is in the hands of the seller.
Second I don't see this as one large acquisition that answers them all across the board.
I think that this very well could be assumed series of acquisitions of smaller in nature which allows us to grow top line and bottom line and hopefully from a market perspective is small from a valuation perspective as well.
So I think there are a number ways to model this well to get to the end point.
There isn’t one model that answers them all.
Okay and then with respect to the specifics around whether flu or TB is in that $500 million estimate.
You obviously modeled all this so you know the bogie you are looking for in terms of revenue or else you wouldn’t know what to shop for.
Are those included? I really don’t to comment on the (inaudible) or what the profile looks like in 2015 because undoubtedly whatever I say today ultimately it is going to be different over the course of the next three years.
So all I know is I think we have multiple ways to get there and that’s why we have the confidence that we can achieve it.
What we will do is continue to deliver on this plan and then you can better assess what that portfolio ultimately looks like.
Okay then just one last question with respect to building 55.
The government had a previously stated goal of 70 million plus doses of anthrax vaccine and you are doing your best to supply them as much as you can out of your existing facility.
Have you seen a change in the posture of the government with respect to its plans for that? Do you see less visibility into the potential future demand out of the building 55? Thanks.
Thanks for the question.
No I think the government has been absolutely firm and committed to that number.
As you point out we continue to deliver as much product s we can produce.
And they reiterated that figure several times.
So we see no wavering on that commitment.
Thank you for your question.
We have no further questions at this time.
(Operator Instructions) Grant are you going to turn it back to me? We have no questions at this time.
So I would now like to turn back to Bob.
Great thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that’s all the time we have for today and we really appreciate your participation.
Please note that today's call has been recorded and a replay will be available beginning later today through November 8.
Alternatively there is available a webcast of today's call an archived version of which will be available later today accessible through the company's website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com and clicking on the investors tab.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking with all of you in the future.
Goodbye.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This now concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Emergent Biosolutions Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 financial results conference call.
My name is Karris and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) At this time I would now like to turn the call over to your Mr.
Bob Burrows Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Karris.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us today as we discuss Emergent Biosolutions' full year 2012 financial results.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent Biosolutions.
Participating on the call this afternoon with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi our President and Chief Executive Officer Bob Kramer our Chief Financial Officer and Dr.
Scott Stromatt our Chief Medical Officer.
On prepared comments we will conduct a Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I am compelled to remind everyone that during the call management may make projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events and the company's prospects or future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
You are encouraged to review Emergent's filing with the SEC on forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
For the benefit of those who may be listening to the replay this call is held and recorded on March 7 2013.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today's call.
So again please do reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent Biosolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today's press release may be found on our website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com under investors/news.
And with that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent Biosolutions' President and CEO.
Dan?  Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call today.
During my prepared comments I want to review our financials and then discuss the 2012 operational performance and 2013 milestones for each of our operating divisions that's BioDefense and Biosciences.
To begin total 2012 revenue was $282 million this was within the $280 million to $284 million range that we provided in our preliminary financial results announced in January.
By 2012 net income was $23.5 million also within the $21 million to $24 million range that we provided in January.
For 2013 we reaffirm our guidance of total revenue of between $290 million and $310 million and net income of between $20 million to $30 million Bob Kramer will provide you more detail on both our 2012 financial performance and 2013 guidance in just a moment.
I'll now not cover our 2012 operational performance and what we are focused on achieving in the current year.
Let me begin with the Biodefense divisions.
There are four key drivers with this division they're BioThrax Building 55 Grants and Contracts and lastly ADM.
First BioThrax 2012 proved to be another solid year performance during the year we shipped approximately $216 million worth of product through the Strategic National Stockpile under our current five-year $1.25 billion contract with the CDC.
With contract provides for deliveries of BioThrax through September 2016.
In 2013 we anticipated another solid year BioThrax shipments to the SNS and we intend to continue our programs designed to enhance the value of BioThrax.
Recall in 2012 we secured a three dose primary schedule for BioThrax and we're now focused on expanding the label to include a PEP indication to that end 2013 will secured the additional funding from BARDA for this important label expansion and we initiated a pivotal antibiotic noninterference chemical study.
In 2013 we anticipate completing that study which will position us for submitting our sBLA in 2014.
Also in 2013 we look to continue to expand international registration of BioThrax specifically in Europe.
Second Building 55 in 2012 we continue to work closely with BARDA under our multiyear development contact to advance the program the large scale manufacturing of BioThrax in Building 55.
In 2012 we initiated manufacturing of our consistency lots and in 2013 we plan to initiate the comparability pivotal non-clinical studies.
We plan to submit our sBLA filing to FDA in 2014 with regulatory approval possibly in late 2014 or into to 2015.
Timing for both the filing and approval of course are dependent upon interactions and feedback with FDA.
Third Contracts And Grants in 2012 we secured additional BARDA funding to support further work on a number of our Biodefense development programs and this year we expect to continue to execute against the program milestones while we seek traditional development funding to further advance our Biodefense programs.
And fourth ADM in 2012 we were selected by BARDA as a center for innovation and advance development manufacturing otherwise known as ADM.
Our Baltimore manufacturing facility was one of three sites selected across the country the other two awardees were Novartis and GSK together with Texas A&amp;M.
Under our ADM contract we work with the U.S.
Government to develop medical counter measures against bio terror and public health threats that they have identified and for which they believe counter measures are acquired.
This $163 million contract consists of an eight-year base period of performance and is extendable by the government for up to 25 years.
This award underscores the government's commitment to the biodefense industry and to protect the nation as well as their focus on enhancing the nation's manufacturing infrastructure to public-private partnership.
It also reflect the importance of our flexible manufacturing capability our biologics manufacturing expertise and our history of being a consistent development and manufacturing partner.
In 2013 we intend to initiate proof of concept studies for a pandemic flu candidate and design for the further build out of the site.
Before I move to our Biosciences division I want to address few recent events coming up out at Washington D.C.
sequestration and reauthorization of  PAHPA.
In terms of sequestration despite the fact that it took effect on March 1 we expect there will be no impact on BioThrax procurement because the funds have already been obligated for purchases in 2013.
Funding for 2014 and beyond will be subject to annual appropriate as is customary.
We anticipate that procurement of BioThrax under the current contract will continue unaffected given the government's recent strategy and implementation plan for medical counter measures and as well see the importance of BioThrax in terms of that [well placed] in the nation's to anthrax preparedness plan.
Unlike BioThrax procurement our development contracts and grants are dependent on 2013 appropriations if you assume the approximately 8% across the board [cards] are put into effect and are applied to our current biodefense development contracts we remain confident there will be no material impact on our financial operations in 2013.
Accordingly we have reaffirmed our 2013 guidance and second late last week Congress passed and the President is expected to sign shortly the Pandemic and all Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013 otherwise known as PAHPA.
This is the key piece of legislation with the biodefense sector as it authorizes funding for the development and procurement of life saving medical counter measures against chemical biological radiological and nuclear weapons and in so doing helps to build an even more prepared nation.
Specifically it authorizes BARDA at $415 million annually for five years as well as the SNS at $533 million annually for five years to replenish the stockpiles.
It also reauthorizes the biofield's special reserve fund at $2.8 billion over five years which demonstrates the government's commitment to developing and procuring counter measures.
Turning now to our bioscience division let me address our two clinical candidates' first MVA85A our tuberculosis vaccine candidate.
During 2012 we completed the Phase 2b infant efficacy study and earlier this year we announced the clinical results.
MVA85A was well tolerated however the data showed that the single dose of our product candidate was not sufficient to confer statistically significant protection against TB in infants who have been vaccinated at birth with BCG.
With these results and recognizing the state of scientific understanding of TB disease the under terminable development path and the extending time lines in escalating cost associated with this program we ceased further development of MVA85A.
In addition we have taken initial steps to close our UK office which we expect to be finalized by mid this year.
These absences are of course with our growth plan which focuses only on those programs that demonstrate the greatest promise and value both to public health and to the company.
The cost savings in 2013 will be further discussed by Bob Kramer.
Second is TRU-016 our humanized protein therapeutic candidate in clinical testing for the for above frontline and relapsed refractory CLL.
In 2012 they initiated two exciting chemical trials for TRU-016 a Phase 1b study that combined TRU-016 with Rituximab in frontline CLL and a Phase 2 study that combines TRU with bendamustine in relapsed refractory CLL.
We are very excited about the progress on both of these open label studies and we expect to announce data later this year Scott Stromatt our Chief Medical Officer will provide a more detail update on TRU-016 in just a movement.
Finally I want to briefly touch our approach to M&amp;A we are targeting the acquisition of revenue generating products with appeal to U.S.
and foreign governments for potential of dual use across both government and commercial settings.
We're also targeting products with application and other major settings namely hospitals and specialty clinics.
This approach is in accordance with our growth plan which clearly emphasizes acquisitions as a significant part of our growth particularly products (Inaudible) market that are focused on biodefense as well as infectious disease hematology oncology and autoimmune disorders and fourth to reporting our continued progress on all of these fronts throughout the year.
That concludes my prepare comments and now I will turn over to over to Scott our CMO who'll give you a more detailed update on TRU-016.
Thank you Dan.
Good afternoon.
Before I discuss the status of current clinical trials let me take a few moments to review the basics of TRU-016.
TRU-016 is a humanized ADAPTIR modular protein technology therapeutic (Inaudible) anti-CD37.
ADAPTIR protein formerly known as SMIP and SCORPION are based on a proprietary platform technology that starts with the Monoclonal Antibody making significant modifications to the effective region the hinge and binding domain.
CD37 is a cell surface protein expressed on mature human B-cells as well as on malignant B-cells that comprised B-cell leukemias and lymphomas.
The TRU-016 binds the CD37 cell (Inaudible) by three different mechanisms.
What is most exciting about TRU-016 that it's mechanism action is unique and is different from any other drug on the market including anti-CD20 antibodies (Inaudible) PI3K inhibitors and BTK inhibitors.
Based on a preclinical activities TRU-016 molecule is taken to a clinic.
TRU-016 has been staged in several clinical trials and the first clinical trial in humans and the single-agent 6 and 7 previously entry (Inaudible) which had partially.
And in those with one or two prior treatment regimes the partial response was 37%.
These medications that did not reach a partial (Inaudible) malignant lymphocytes were reduced overall lymphocytes reduction greater than 50% was observed and of all patients treated.
That is very encouraging given that this is only the first study in humans with molecule on the (Inaudible) focused on dose regime for safety so a lot of low doses were tested.
We hope for the combination trial TRU-016 to (Inaudible) presented at ASH at the end of last year.
In the Phase 1b portion of the study in 12 patients could relapse (Inaudible) the NCI overall response was 83% with a (Inaudible) rate of 33%.
These results are very encouraging.
As Dan mentioned a randomized Phase 2 trial is ongoing this trial what we refer to as study 16201 is enrolling 50 patients with relapsed CLL in Phase 2.
It's a randomized open label study and compares the overall response rate for bendamustine alone so the benamustine and TRU-016 in patients with relapsed CLL.
The secondary end point concludes safety complete response rate duration of response progression-free survival and PK/PD parameters.
Patients were treated for the six months and then followed for 18 months.
We're almost with enrollment and expect to present preliminary response data at ASH this year.
In October last year we announced the initiation of a combination trials TRU-016 with Rituximab and frontline CLL.
The trial is an open label study with the primary end point of overall response.
The secondary endpoints were the same again safety complete response rate duration of response progression-free survival and PK/PD parameter.
Patients were treated for six months with the combination (Inaudible) for another year.
The study enrollment has been remarkable fast and we've already enrolled 21 of 24 patients.
Physicians and patients are keenly interested I alternatives of standard chemotherapy.
And results safety profile TRU-016 and what makes an ideal partner of several agents in the field as a field moves towards relatively less toxic therapy for CLL.
Developing safety and efficacy data very promising and we look forward to presenting trial data at ASH this year.
That concludes my prepared comments and I'll now turn over to Bob Kramer our CFO who'll take you through the 2012 numbers in greater detail.
Bob? Thank you Scott.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'd first like to make some general comments about consolidated performance for 2012 compared to prior years and then turn to some highlights of or two operating divisions.
Total revenue for the year was up $282 million slightly up from prior year of $273 million due to higher BioThrax sales.
At the operating income line generated a profit of $30 million which was 11% of our total revenue.
This is down slightly about $2 million from prior year due in part due to a $9.6 million charge we took in Q2 of 2012 related to the write-down of the SBI-087.
We were able to offset part of this additional charge with lower R&amp;D spending in the biosciences division in particular certain of our preclinical programs.
Our gross margins was in line with prior year as was our SG&amp;A.
In fact since 2009 our total SG&amp;A expenses increased by a modest 3% or an average 1% for a year.
For 2012 our net income was $23.5 million at the upper end of the range we communicated in early January but essentially flat compared to 2011.
Please keep in mind that this performance included $9.6 million write-down pretax write-down in [BioD] R&amp;D.
A quick comment about our effective tax rate for 2012 our effective tax rate was 37% which is not materially different from the combined statutory federal and state rate.
If we're able to take further advantage of tax credits such as R&amp;D and orphan drug status programs in the future we exect that this rate would decrease.
At yearend our balance sheet continue to reflect a strong capital position for the company from the asset side our combined cash and accounts receivable totaled $238 million up from $220 million in 2011.
In terms of fixed assets our PP&amp;E was $241 million up $33 million over 2011 primarily result of our investment income tax expansion at our Baltimore site and risk mitigation at our Lansing site.
Part of the increase in PP&amp;E is also due to a redundant and expanded testing facility building 56 failed to support our BioThrax operations in Lansing.
On the debt and equity side of the balance sheet we ended the year with primarily real-estate backed long-term debt of $63 million which was 6% over prior year.
So while our cash and accounts receivables expanded by $18 million our debt remains steady despite the fact that we've made significant and strategic investments in additional manufacturing infrastructure.
At the division level the biodefense unit had another solid year of performance led by our BioThrax sales of approximately $216 million an increase of $14 million over 2011.
Please recall the 2012 was the first full year of deliveries to the U.S.
government under the current 44.75 million dose contract.
The 8.1 million doses delivered in 2012 were in line with our expectations.
Also our gross margin for 2012 of 79% was in line with historical levels of 75% to 80%.
In addition to BioThrax sales the BioDefense division also contributed over $60 million in contract revenue while low margin in nature this revenue source was an important way for us to partner with the U.S.
government and the development of much needed medical counter measures.
For our biosciences division 2012 included the investment of approximately $45 million in R&amp;D down $17 million from 2011.
This reduction was a result of our ongoing efforts to prioritize our R&amp;D investments which we look to continue in 2013.
As mentioned earlier we are discontinuing the development of our TB product based on the disappointing Phase 2 results announced in early February which will result in reduction in 2013 R&amp;D spending in the range of $8 million to $10 million.
It will however the cost associated with winding down these development efforts such that the net impact while positive is not anticipated to be material to our net income performance for the year.
I'd now like to turn to our 2013 guidance and talk a little bit about our revenue and net income forecast for the year.
Our expectations for 2013 are for continued performance as seen in 2012 across our operating divisions.
For 2013 we're forecasting total revenues of between $290 million and $310 million (Inaudible) between product sales of $230 million to $240 million in grants in contract revenue of $60 million to $70 million.
This forecast does not reflect the impact of possible M&amp;A transactions.
We're confident in our ability to deliver doses to the SNS in line with our product sales revenue projections of $230 million to $240 million this year.
We're also confident in our ability to continue to generate contracts and grant revenue as we perform under these important development contracts funded by BARDA.
We anticipate our gross margin and operating margins for 2013 to be in line with those in 2012 we look for opportunities to continuously control our R&amp;D and SG&amp;A spending where appropriate while we continue to perform under our government funded programs.
And we will continue to focus on securing licensing partners and funding from external parties as we continue to evaluate our current platform technologies.
Lastly for the first quarter of 2013 we're forecasting total revenues of between $40 million and $50 million because if you look at our historical financials it's fairly typical range for our first quarter.
In summary our expectations is that our performance for 2013 will largely be in line with 2012 as we take steps to unwind certain aspects of our business and expand others all leading toward achieving the financial and operating goals in our growth plan.
That concludes my comments I'll now turn the call over to the operator so that we can begin the question and answer portion of the call.
Operator please proceed.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question from the line of Cory Kasimov with J.P.
Morgan.
Please proceed.
Hi there it's actually Matt Lowe in for Cory today.
Just a couple of questions.
First one of Building 55.
I know you mentioned that there's a potential to have that license in late 2014 or early 2015 just wondering do you expect or for seeing new contracts to be agreed then or do you think existing contract will run until September 2016 and with the potential for new contract once that one is concluded? And then second question is yes I know you mentioned about M&amp;A possibilities this year just wondering if you could give us more details and what you think the best use of cash is to build the company whilst also building shareholder value in terms of M&amp;A and as just some of the other options.
Thanks.
Yeah thank you Matt.
I appreciate your participation this afternoon and let me see if I can answer both of those questions.
So in terms of the timing on the contract as you know our existing contract with CDC goes through September 2016 and covers production out of building 12.
So all of the delivery schedules and the pricing are really tied to that scale of production.
We do anticipate there will be some feathering in of Building 55 production as that facility comes line so that the government can maximize the availability of doses to achieve their stated requirements ultimately of $75 million doses in of an Anthrax vaccine in the strategic national stockpile.
The actual mechanics and the timing and the level of deliveries out of Building 55 we don't have clear visibility we have some ideas as to how this might work.
But as of yet we have not had any discussions with the government about that transition and what it would look like so we do not expect that we're going to have to wait till 2016 before we start delivering out of 55 but in terms of the total deliveries off 55 together with building 12 it's not exactly clear what that will look like.
So when you're second question with respect to M&amp;A and the best use of cash to build the business and to drive the company forward so I think we've made it pretty clear over the course of the last several months about our growth plan for 2013 to 2015 in terms of top line as well as bottom line growth both the key objectives for the organization we do believe that in order to achieve the top line growth that we've targeted M&amp;A is a requirement that we don't have a portfolio of products that would contribute to - BioThrax to get us to that $500 million level.
So M&amp;A is a fact of life for us over the next year or two.
And so our objective is to do that in the most efficient manner recognizing that we don't want to be in a position where we're suffering dilution or significant dilution and that we are looking for transactions that are accretive either immediately or within a very short period of time following acquisition.
So we anticipate that cash will be used as part of those acquisitions and we think that's a very valuable and important tool for us in order to achieve the stated plan that we've laid out there for 2015.
So hopefully that helps then clarify both trends for you.
Yeah that was great.
And just as a quick follow-up on the R&amp;D spend just wondering if you could give us some details around the split between BioDefense and other R&amp;D spend now that the TB vaccine program is going to be closed down? Yeah I think the -- the way that we don't give breakouts by the way on a go forward basis for the R&amp;D but the way that you certainly should look at it is -- we do have some grants and contracts revenue which are offsetting a significant portion of our BioDefense spend and our approach to [BioD] R&amp;D is if it's not funded then we tend not to do it -- unless it's very modest amounts to get it to an inflection point where we can secure additional funding.
But right now you know the BioD is substantially funded.
I think that's about as much as I want to say with respect to you know prospective allocation between the two divisions in R&amp;D.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Ian Somaiya with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed.
Thanks I had a couple of questions.
So maybe just maybe one follow-up on the R&amp;D spending I guess I understand that there is not a incremental benefit on the bottom line this year how should we think about the potential for those cost savings to lead to an improvement and that it be net income outlook for the next couple of years is there any sort of carry forward on that front? Well maybe I'll ask Bob Kramer to comment further after I speak to it.
So certainly we're giving guidance for the year and we've incorporated the savings associated with the shutdown of the TB program and the UK operations which are anticipated some time mid this year.
We've incorporated that in our guidance.
So in terms of the impact for 2013 I think it's baked into the figures that we've disclosed today and discussed.
In terms of a go forward basis well certainly we're no longer incurring the cost associated with the MVA85A so those costs will no longer be there and I don't know Bob do you have any further comment to add or for next year? No I think you hit it correctly Dan and it's again as we commented earlier there will be some savings in R&amp;D in 2013 because of the discontinuance of the program.
2013 will be a bit of a wind down here for that program so while we expect that net-net there will be some savings to 2013 it's not going to be material to the bottom-line and it's not going to change our guidance on net income.
But and I guess my question is more specific to '14 and beyond and this is in relation to the guidance you've already given for those year.
Obviously you have cost savings in place because you're not pursuing the product anymore should we assume that that leads to that represents a source of upside to your net income guidance? So let me just comment on our 2015 goal or plan.
Because I think it's very important that we recognize that we are not forecasting 2014 is part of that.
And we have specifically indicated we don't expect this to be incremental even stepwise progress towards that goal of top line and bottom line.
It will be more of a gradual in the early years and steeper in the later year.
So I don't think you should be thinking of this as a even step wise progress year-over-year to 2015 plan numbers that we put out there.
Okay.
And another question I had was just on sequestration and how would you think about that in terms of your ongoing relationship with the U.S.
government or most specifically BARDA? Yeah so the sequestration impact I think we've covered that at least with respect to BioThrax procurement.
We don't anticipate any impact at all as a result of the funds already being fully obligated and I take even with respect to grace in contracts.
I think great comfort in the recent authorization of PAHPA that was both houses of congress both sides of the aisle.
We do anticipate the President is going to assign us.
So I think this is broad base support and what we're seeing is no reduction at all in front end compared to 2012 levels.
And they maintained finding for the next five years in the program of course we have to go through the appropriation process.
But what we are seeing is broadbase support for the biodefense industry which one of the very recent that we've indicated as part of our plan that we intend to extend our resource in biodefense we think it's a very viable and healthy marketplace we have a leadership position we have very close ties with BARDA on a number of programs that we're working on collaboratively with them.
So I think the picture overall despite the news and the storage regarding sequestration is very positive for the biodefense industry.
Okay.
If I could just ask one last question for Scott on TRU-016 just give us a sense of where do you see the (inaudible) setting in is and you mentioned or you alluded to in your prepared remarks that where we are seeing a change and sort of the treatment algorithm for CLL lymphoma B cell malignancies broadly speaking where does 016 fit in and how much – at what point do you seek it their partner or seek to potentially just out license the opportunity? Well module has good activity and very good safety and as you know the disease cannot be cure.
And so we see it being using combination with the product activation.
We've done in combination with bendamustine with rituximab PI3K inhibitor and we see active but synergistic activity.
And so we see a definitely working combination there.
As you know the feels moving away from toxic chemotherapy regime to more non-toxic.
So I see it being using combination with those type of drug.
Now in terms of partnering we are looking for partner now and that are our goal to work with partner because I think there is some good opportunities for the molecule.
Yeah and on the partnering front let me just add to that Scott we've indicated again tied to our growth plan that our preference for advanced clinical stage candidates is to partner out.
It has a lot of benefits it reduces it does reduce potential costs associated with the further development it provides some significant commercialization capability it may enable us to accelerate timeline.
So we see a lot of benefits associated with partnering the candidate and to Scott point we have started that process and we think there is a real opportunity to strike a valuable partnership for TRU-016.
Okay thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from the line of Eric Smith with Cowen and Company.
Please proceed.
Thanks for taking my question Dan on  PAHPA has any money been specifically allocated for anthrax or is anthrax still prioritized within the biodefense budget? Yeah so under the  PAHPA legislation there was over $500 million allocated to replenishment of the stock file for SNS for each of the next five years.
So that is the specific dollar amount and BioThrax is part of that replenishment.
So indirectly the answer is yes.
Specific money identified for replenishing the stock pile at levels that we see today.
Okay.
Then on the guidance not to beat the dead horse but I guess what I'm struggling with regard to 2013 is that you've guided at the midpoint of your revenue guidance to revenues that are about $20 million nearly $20 million higher than what you just saw in 2012.
You suggested that the expenses are going to be in the same ballpark despite kind of some costs savings both on the R&amp;D and SG&amp;A side that you might have.
Your net income guidance really is in any different from we just saw in 2012.
So where are the incremental where is the incremental revenue going I guess?  Bob do you want to take that? Eric I'm not quite sure I followed the question.
Well it sounds like your – at the midpoint your revenue guidance is higher your expense guidance is certainly no higher if anything little bit lower yet your net income guidance is in line with what we just saw year-on-year.
Yeah so again as we described I mean 2013 will be a bit of a transition year.
We have to – as we implement our growth strategy it's not going to be down as Dan indicated over night.
It will take us sometime to unwind the development programs to the extent that we make those decisions in 2013 as well as wind up on the growth strategy the M&amp;A activity with the plan to pursue in 2013.
So it will take a little bit of time for us to get things lined up and pursue to those growth plan objectives.
I mean specifically on the tax rate side Bob would you think that the 37% you just posted in 2012 would be a good number and if you had any R&amp;D credits as you mentioned it could be a little less? Well again we anticipate or expect that to the extent that we can more fully utilize those tax credits in 2013 and beyond the tax rate overall will begin to creep down but as you know it's all depend on our ability to take advantage of those credit opportunities.
But yes I mean we would expect that to trend down.
Okay.
Then last question I assume you just go to pause on the share buyback program I didn't see any further share count reductions in the quarter? No well through the end of the year in the program was active it still active today and we are occasionally in the market opportunistically exercising the program and we'll give updates on a quarter-by-quarter basis going forward but at the end of the year we were -- we had purchased just short of 400 000 shares at $5.8 million of value.
So we're again it's an active program we assess from time-to-time the appropriateness of engaging the activity and we'll update you accordingly.
Thank you.
Sure.
At this time there are no further questions in queue.
Great thank you Karris.
Ladies and gentlemen that's all the time we have today thank you for your participation.
Please note that today's call has been recorded and a replay will be available beginning later today through March 21.
Alternatively there is available a webcast of today's call an archived version of which will be available later today accessible through the company's website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com and clicking on the investors tab.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking with all of you in the future.
Goodbye.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the first quarter 2012 Emergent BioSolutions Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jeff and I'll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will facilitate a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Bob Burrows Vice President of Investor Relations.
You have the floor sir.
Thank you Jeff.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss Emergent BioSolutions first quarter 2012 financial results.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Joining me on the call this afternoon with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi our President and Chief Executive Officer and Don Elsey our Chief Financial Officer.
Additional members of our senior management will be present on the call for purposes of the Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I am compelled to remind everyone that during the call management may make projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events and the company's prospects or future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve potential risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
You are encouraged to review Emergent's filings with the SEC on Forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
For the benefit of those who may be listening to replay this call was held and recorded on May 3 2012.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements related to topics discussed during today's call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC files.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today's press release may be found on our website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com under Investors/Press Releases.
And wWith that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions President and CEO.
Dan?   Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call today.
For my prepared comments I will review our financial performance for the first quarter of 2012.
Then I will address our 2012 forecast including revenue expectations for the second quarter and finally I will provide a brief business update.
To begin let me review our financial results for Q1 2012.
Total revenues were approximately $50 million which is within the $40 million to $50 million range that we provided during our March conference call.
In addition for the quarter we realized a net loss of $6.8 million or $0.19 per share.
This loss includes a one-time non-cash charge of $9.6 million related to Pfizer's decision to cease further development of SBI-087.
Without this non-cash charge the Q1 net loss would have been approximately $700 000 or $0.02 per share.
Just a quick note on Pfizer.
Pfizer recently notified us of its intent to terminate its development programs with respect to SBI-087.
While Pfizer informed us that the product met the primary endpoint for efficacy and was generally well tolerated in a recently completed Phase II study in RA Pfizer also indicated that the product did not meet other criteria set by Pfizer to advance the candidate.
On termination of the license agreement which we anticipate shortly the license technology would revert to us and Pfizer would have a continuing obligation to pay us low single-digit royalties on net sales of any biosimilar product they may develop directed to CD20.
At this time following the return of the technology to us we do not plan to pursue further development of SBI-087.
Moving on we finished the quarter with a combined cash and accounts receivable of $194 million.
In terms of guidance we reaffirm our full year 2012 guidance of total revenues of $280 million to $300 million and net income of $15 million to $25 million.
Finally for the second quarter we anticipate total revenues of $70 million to $80 million.
Turning now to an update on the business let me first discuss our biodefense division.
As a result of our Q1 financial results we also continue to make progress towards licensure of our large-scale facility Building 55 for the production of BioThrax.
This new facility is designed to manufacture up to 25 million doses of BioThrax per year on a single production line.
If needed this facility could with the addition of a second production line produce up to 50 million doses per year.
In our meeting last year with FDA we received overall support for our plan for regulatory approval without the need for conducting clinical trials based on achieving specified endpoints in our proposed comparability and non-clinical studies.
We plan to initiate consistency lot manufacturing in Q2 with completion anticipated in Q4.
Based on this plan we remain confident that licensure could occur as early as late 2014.
Separately we have several initiatives underway to further enhance the value of BioThrax as one of the leading biodefense countermeasures.
These include obtaining a post-exposure indication optimizing the dosing schedule and extending the product's shelf life to five years.
We're also developing BioThrax in combination with a novel adjuvant in pursuit of a two-dose vaccination schedule administered over a two-week period.
Finally we continue to advance our other anthrax-directed programs including our rPA vaccine candidate and our two therapeutic candidates.
Principally we're focused on completing our ongoing studies and securing follow-on development funding from Varna.
We anticipate news on all of these initiatives over the next 9 to 12 months.
Now let me turn to our biosciences division.
Our lead program in this division is our TB booster vaccine candidate MVA85A.
This is the most advanced clinical-stage TB vaccine candidate under development today.
We are developing this candidate with substantial support and funding commitments from renowned global NGOs given its potential to significantly reduce the TB disease burden worldwide.
As you know approximately 2 billion people or one-third of the world's population are estimated to be infected with the bacteria and are at risk of developing tuberculosis.
According to the WHO approximately 1.5 million people die from TB every year.
It is the second leading cause of death from infectious disease worldwide.
The only available licensed TB vaccine known as VCG has limited efficacy against pulmonary TB.
The public health challenge has been intensified by the rise of multi-drug and extensively drug resistant strains of TB.
In addition there have been reports in Italy Iran and India of cases of totally drug-resistant strains of TB with mortality rates approaching 100%.
On World TB Day which was on March 24 a report entitled 'Tuberculosis Vaccines: A Strategic Blueprint for the Next Decade' was published.
This report emphasized the need for a global effort to achieve effective TB vaccines.
Clearly TB represents a substantial global unmet medical need and there is growing support for the rapid development and licensure of new vaccines against this disease.
Our TB candidate MBA85A is being developed with support from our partners Oxford University The Wellcome Trust and Aeras.
We are also receiving funding support from EBCTB which is the European development agency as well as the NIH.
As you know we're in the process of completing a randomized double-blind Phase IIb efficacy study in South Africa involving 2800 infants.
The vaccination phase of the trial has been completed and these infants are now being observed.
We continue to anticipate receiving efficacy data from this study at the end of this year.
If these data are promising we anticipate pursuing accelerated or conditional approval for MVA 85A in selected countries.
Our TB vaccine candidate is also in a second randomized double-blind Phase IIb efficacy study involving approximately 1400 HIV-infected adults in South Africa and Senegal.
If successful MVA 85A would be the first vaccine licensed for TB since the introduction of BCD more than 80 years ago.
Our other key biosciences program is our protein therapeutic candidate TRU-016 targeting B cell malignancies including CLL and NHL.
We are in the middle of the Phase II combination study that is examining the safety and efficacy of TRU-016 with bendamustine versus bendamustine alone in patients with relapsed CLL.
The Phase II trial is an open label multi-center active control study enrolling up to 100 randomized bendamustine naive patients who have both a confirmed diagnosis of relapsed CLL and a history of having failed up to three previous treatment regimens.
The primary endpoint for the study is overall response rate.
Secondary endpoints include PFS DOR and improvement in quality of life and disease symptoms.
We expect to complete enrollment this year with data anticipated in 2013.
For TRU-016 in NHL we have completed enrollment in a Phase Ib combination study involving both Rituximab and bendamustine.
We anticipate that data from this study will be available in Q3.
We expect to make a decision on further development of this candidate in NHL along with the review of the Phase Ib study results.
So in summary we will remain on track our business remains strong and I'm confident regarding our prospects for the remainder of the year.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I will now turn it over to Don who will take you through the numbers in greater detail.
Don?   Thank you Dan.
Good afternoon everyone.
Following the close of the markets today we released our financial results for the first quarter 2012.
I encourage everyone to take a look at the press release which is currently available on our web site.
We plan to file our quarterly report on form 10-Q with the SEC no later than the close of business tomorrow Friday May the 4th.
The 10-Q will also be available on our web site.
Let me now briefly discuss the numbers.
First quarter 2012 total revenues were $50.3 million versus $18.5 million in the first quarter 2011.
First quarter revenues were comprised of $34.4 million of product sales  which is an increase of $28.8 million from Q1 2011 and $16 million of contracts and grants revenue an increase of $3 million from Q1 in 2011.
The increase in product sales was primarily due to an increase in the number of doses of BioThrax delivered.
Turning to gross margins our gross margin in Q1 2012 was approximately 78% which remains within our typical range of between 70% and 80%.
Turning to the bottom line in Q1 2012 we recorded a net loss of $6.8 million or $0.19 per basic share as compared to a net loss of $21.4 million or $0.61 per basic share in Q1 2011.
The Q1 2012 net loss included a one-time non-cash charge of $9.6 million related to impairment of in-process research and development.
Without this non-cash impairment Q1 2012 net loss would have been approximately $700 thousand or $.02 per share.
Turning now to spending our R&amp;D expense for Q1 2012 was $26.2 million a 24% decrease from Q1 2011.
Recall that contracts and grants revenues and costs associated with non-controlling interests offset a portion of our R&amp;D expenses.
Taking into account these adjustments our net R&amp;D for Q1 2012 was $9.1 million.
With respect to SG&amp;A spending first quarter 2012 SG&amp;A expenses were $19.5 million an increase of 7% over the same period in 2011.
As always we remain focused on managing growth in our general and administrative expenses.
We continue to closely manage SG&amp;A and do not expect the rate of growth seen in Q1 to continue for the balance of the year.
Turning now to the balance sheet we ended the first quarter of 2012 with cash-in-cash equivalents of $150.4 million and an accounts receivable balance of $43.7 million.
Finally let me address our 2012 financial forecast.
As Don noted earlier we are reaffirming our 2012 forecast of total revenues of $280 million to $300 million split between product sales of $220 million to $230 million and contracts and grants revenue of $60 million to $70 million.
We are also reaffirming our 2012 forecast for net income after tax of between $15 million and $25 million.
In addition for the second quarter of 2012 we are anticipating total revenues of between $70 million and $80 million.
And finally you may have noted today we filed a new universal shelf registration statement that would support a primary offering for the company of up to $180 million and for selling stockholders who have registration rights of up to 3 million shares.
As you know it is fairly customary to have a standing shelf in place and this replaces the shelf registration statement we filed in 2008 that expired unused last November.
That concludes my comments.
I will now turn the call over to the operator so that we can begin the question and answer portion of the call.
Operator please proceed.
Hi.
Yes thanks for taking my questions.
With respect to Pfizer are there anymore payments coming upon the termination of that collaboration and is there any CVR avoidance that you would like to point out there? And on BioThrax can you talk a little bit about how yields are going and how many doses may have been shipped in the quarter? Thanks very much.
Thanks Mario.
Appreciate you joining the talk today and appreciate the question.
So first with respect to Pfizer payment no further payments are going to be forthcoming under the collaboration around SBI-087.
However as I indicated there is an ongoing low single-digit royalty obligation for any biosimilar they may develop and commercialize targeting CD-20.
So that would be the only remaining financial obligation.
With respect to CVR avoidance there was indeed an avoidance of CVR and the number is $3 million.
That was avoided as a result of the early termination of the license arrangement.
And your last question related to production of BioThrax in terms of how to put it in the facility as you know every year we establish a plan and we have a delivery schedule through the CDC for stockpiling in the SNS.
And as you can see by the reaffirmation of our guidance we believe we're going to be on plan we're going to be on track so production is supporting the financial results that we've reported to you for the forecast for the remainder of the year.
So so far so good we're on track.
So just a quick follow-up on the Pfizer piece.
So in terms of your revenue guidance was there a Pfizer revenue assumption in there and now it just puts you in a different spot of that range than previously? This is Don.
There were some minor revenues out in the later part of the year but nothing appreciable so it really didn't have impact there.
Great.
Thanks.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
A couple of them for you.
First of all can you give us Don the relative breakdown between biodefense and bioscience R&amp;D spending this quarter? Yes Cory if you give me just a minute let me get my hands on that.
All right.
I can go to the second question and can come back to it.
I've got it Cory.
Okay.
So basically as you break it down--now this is the gross development not the net that we talked about in the comments--there was approximately $15 million in biodefense.
There was approximately $9 million in biosciences and $2 million in other.
Okay.
Perfect.
That's helpful.
And then I was wondering if you guys can talk a little bit about any supportive data you have for your TB vaccine that gives you confidence that this Phase II b study could work? Yes.
Let me start and then I'm going to ask Jim Jackson our Chief Scientific Officer to add to my comments.
So as you know the product is a MBA-based vector delivering of an antigen.
So we have seen this product in quite a number of early clinical trials whereby the vector is effectively delivering the antigen and we are seeing some robust immune responses.
Of course the challenge here is are those immune responses generating antibodies that are protective and that is the hoped for answer that we expect or anticipate deriving from the ongoing study.
So in terms of the ability of the candidate to generate immune responses we've seen that consistently through use of the candidate MBA vector in earlier studies.
But in terms of answering the final question about whether those antibodies are actually protective that is what we are hoping the Phase II efficacies will provide us.
Jim anything to add to that? Ph.D.</strong> Yes Corey if you remember MD-85A has been through series rather exhaustive series of pre-clinical animal efficacy evaluations.
I think there were four different animal models that this vaccine had been tested in for its ability to augment or promote further cell-mediated immunity to that initially primed by BCG.
In addition to the reproduceable animal efficacy results the immunogenicity result that we see and 85A has now I think been in like 12 different clinical studies where we have demonstrated safety and strong solid immunogenicity on the cell mediated side.
Not only in adults but adolescents and now in infants as well.
All that taken together Corey it's a very pretty compelling story for all of us and unlike some of the other prototype booster vaccines that are out there that have now started progress [inaudible] clinical development our vaccine really elicits very strong CD-4 type cell mediated immune responses.
Which we think and a number of the leaders of the TB field think are going to be paramount to leading to a very efficacious vaccine.
All right.
That's helpful thank you.
Hi this is Adnan on Jason's behalf.
First what would constitute a good result for the TB study? And secondly what would be the registry path or the market strategy? I didn't catch your first question I'm sorry.
But the second question which is the regulatory path for the TB vaccine? Yes that's right.
And maybe you could repeat the first part of your question and we can get to that in just a moment.
So Adnan thanks for joining the call.
The regulatory path is really something we are going to have to discuss in more detail once we see the data with the regulatory authorities.
Our belief and there seems to be growing sentiment out there is that with compelling data there will be some support.
And it could be quite broadbased or devising an accelerated path that would allow early licensure.
Perhaps there would be conditions that we would expect there would be conditions perhaps it could be followed-up with a large scale efficacy confirmatory study and the like.
But that's speculation at this point.
It is very difficult to read the minds of the regulators.
We haven't had that robust discussion yet.
There are key opinion leader discussions out there that are ongoing about what the level of success ought to be to move for either accelerated or conditional approval and the landscape continues to shift.
So I think as the year unfolds we'll learn quite a bit more about regulatory appetite for conditional or accelerated approval and what that might look like.
Then once we see the data then we'll be in a better position to approach the agencies and discuss a more definitive path forward.
In terms of somebody handing me a note that your first question is what would constitute success in the Phase IIb and that too is an excellent question.
Though there's been a great deal of conversation in the community around what the key endpoints should be in terms of measuring success for this and I'll ask Jim to follow up on that we look to the recent experience in malaria as a possible benchmark.
There was in the malaria trials a 35% VE which was deemed by the public health authorities to be quite compelling and supportive of licensure would be understanding that next generation malaria vaccines should continue to be developed moving that VE rate beyond 35 towards 50 and upwards even towards 70 or 80%.
Jim maybe you can shed a little bit more light on what the current thinking is out there in the KOL community? Ph.D.</strong> Yes.
Sure.
Thanks Jason.
Basically what the primary endpoint for this study is going to be it's going to be a reduction in the number of confirmed cases of TB among the infants that receive not only BCG as a prime but our MVA 85 as a boost compared to infants receiving BCG alone.
Based on some ongoing dialogue we've had with not only key opinion leaders but some of the leading public health organizations U.S.
globally as well is we're probably looking for an increase in vaccine efficacy of somewhere around 30% maybe greater than what is achieved with BCG alone.
That's kind of what we're targeting.
I think there are some specifically epidemiological basis for that level of vaccine efficacy as really being a game changer for the TB deal.
Okay.
Thank you.
I wanted to follow-up a little bit on the TB vaccine and I wonder if you can help us think about - as you look at the countries where you think you might have kind of a near term possibility of approval what sort of an addressable market would you imagine is available there? What are the potential margins to EBS and can you remind us of what EBS's obligations to the Wellcome Trust and so on are.
Yes.
Thank you Nick appreciate the question.
As you might recall it being discussed in prior conference calls and presented at prior conferences we have four commercial rights to a certain category of countries.
They're designated as high-income and middle-income countries.
It's about 55 countries and includes those in the EU Brazil Russia and also the private markets in India and China.
The addressable market we believe in terms of our space generates about 75 million births annually for those where BCG is actively administered right now as part of an expanded program of immunization.
So in terms of the current market based on BCG immunizations and we're looking at infant immunizations on an annual basis it's about 75 million births annually.
Of course we would expect that number to move north as vaccine efficacy improves and as the experience with the combination if you will the prime and the boost materializes and increases.
We would expect to see immunization rates not only in those jurisdictions increase but other territories potentially expanding their immunization policies to include a BCG with boost as part of their infant program.
So the immediate is in that 75 million as I've expressed so even with a modest price per dose you could easily envision a total market size north of 800 million even north of a billion.
Now in terms of what is immediately addressable and how that would play out again I think that will depend significantly on the conversations that we have with the regulatory authorities.
Clearly right now one of the most serious outbreak countries is South Africa.
That was one of the rationales for conducting the studies there.
You have high incidence with high morbidity and mortality in that jurisdiction so that would be a logical first place to start not necessarily stop.
We do have to be mindful that we are not yet set up for large-scale commercial production.
That's something that will take place over the course of the next several years so we're not talking about large introductory launches.
We're talking about pilot launches that will enable public health authorities to begin to address the TB threat that they're experiencing in their population.
And I'll ask Jim also to expand on those comments.
Jim.
Ph.D.</strong> Yes.
I think that it's really going to be a strong vaccine for countries where there are mandatory immunization programs particularly in the Mideast and Mediterranean regions even some parts of Eastern Europe where there are addressable populations that have some level of disposable income that can drive a reasonable vaccine price.
Now remember this is a booster vaccine so it will go hand-in-hand with the countries and in healthcare systems where BCG is already being used.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And I have just a couple quick follow-ups for Don on the finances three questions there.
One is on the revenue I guess you are just slightly above the top end of the guidance and I'm wondering if there is one of the two elements of revenue that was near the top of what you'd expected or what was driving that.
Second question is if I'm not mistaken the share count decreased a little bit quarter-over-quarter.
I'm just wondering what was behind that? And finally the quarterly R&amp;D is a little less than we expected I wondered if you could help us think about what that will look like going forward? Sure.
I'll take your questions in the order that you gave them.
With regards to the revenue there was not one particular event that was driving the achievement at the top-end of the range.
To go back with regards to product sales as you recall we deliver in lots to the government 180 000 doses at a time $5 million essentially in revenue per lot.
So product sales can go up or down very very quickly with just one or two extra lots being able to be shipped.
On the contracts and grants it's going to ebb-and-flow with regards to where the various contracts and grants are at at any point in time.
So it is always a little bit of an art in estimating exactly how all the activities are going to go and when they are going to pass through the various checkpoints that the government has with regards to some of these contracts.
There [inaudible] one particular event that drove it to the top-end.
With regards to the share count yes we don't see a decrease.
As a matter of fact we see an increase.
So we could take that offline if you'd like but we don't see a decrease in share count.
With regard to R&amp;D as we've said in the past R&amp;D is really going to be a linear activity throughout the year.
It depends upon what phase of development the various candidates are in.
So I don't think you should take first quarter as...
First quarter times four and that's the annual spend on this.
Because it's going to again increase or decrease depending upon where the various candidates are in their development cycle.
Okay thanks a lot.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
I was wondering if you could walk through and looking back on the Trubion position and some of the events that are happening now with Abbott and Pfizer what's going to happen here and the appetite for these types of things going forward? In terms of when you say the appetite for these things going forward are you talking about really the M&amp;A arena or are you talking about development arena? Can you help me understand? Yes.
I recall when you guys acquired the asset it seemed a little bit outside of really your sweet and there's some questions from some non-forward thinking investors perhaps whether that was the correct place to be focusing energy even though it was a fairly cheap acquisition.
Here with Pfizer now Abbott now Pfizer are kind of walking away from these programs.
Looking back on it are you still as confident in the ability to get these things (inaudible) at some point? Yes.
No it's a fair question and it's an interesting question Jim so thanks for putting that on the table.
So the way we look at this is the technology I think is separate and distinct from the collaborations that the acquisition brought to Emergent.
We did value the acquisitions it was clear.
One of the benefits of the acquisition was the fact that we had a partner in Abbott and Pfizer without any cost to us.
It was progressing a candidate on its own which had some upside.
So that's clear.
The way we look at the events as they've unfolded as you might recall neither Abbott nor Pfizer really signed up with Trubion for those relationships and for those programs.
Both companies inherited them through acquisitions Abbott through the acquisition of Facet and Pfizer through the acquisition of Wyeth so they weren't homegrown to begin with.
And reasons for the departure of the two partners if you will are varied.
Abbott they made it clear that they had a prioritization process they ran through.
The product had successfully met the endpoints that were specified and similarly with Pfizer.
We see a product meeting an efficacy endpoint and generally well tolerated so we don't see this as an indictment of the technology or the platform.
It does present a challenge for us in terms of now what do we do in terms of R&amp;D spend going forward to advance the candidate and that's why we're taking a very measured approach with respect to TRU-016 while we have some data that's coming out this year and into next year.
And I think it would prudent for us to evaluate data before we make a decision on how best to proceed whether it's something that we undertake on our own or something that we should partner and if so when do we partner.
Those are things that we have to decide internally.
For products like this typically Emergent would partner them.
The question might be "When is it appropriate to partner and what are the circumstances under which those partnerships ought to be developed and signed up for?" And with respect to SBI-087 as we indicated we really don't anticipate taking that on right now.
We have enough on our plate.
We don't need to enter into the RA field which is highly competitive a lot of products.
It's moving into biosimilars.
It's not really a space that we find core to our strategy and [with which] we think we would be successful.
If there were a partnering opportunity or (inaudible) license opportunity for that possibly but again it's really not something that we will focus a lot of effort on.
Jim Jackson as you know our CSO is also the leader in the Seattle operation and can give you a little bit more insight into some of the other products that are in the portfolio there and that we think have exciting opportunities for us.
Ph.D.</strong> No I think you summarized it quite well.
Abbott left the CE-37 collaboration due to an internal portfolio management process.
They were quite supportive of the product from the technical perspective however it just wasn't as attractive as some other candidates in their portfolio from a commercial point of view.
With respect to the overall technology has seen Abbott lead the co-development relationship and now Pfizer deciding not to pursue further development of SBI-087.
It really doesn't in my opinion compare the overall technology.
As you know we have three of these [inaudible] small modular [idio]pharmaceuticals the Smits that have now been in the clinic the two anti-CV-20s versus 20-15 that Wyse and Pfizer worked on for several years.
And then the second generation SPI-087 and now we're progressing TRU-16 which is the ADCD-37 that we're looking for efficacy in B-cells malignancies area.
And all three of these molecular candidates have proven to be safe generally well-tolerated and demonstrating some level of clinical efficacy merits in the auto-immune disease area or whether it's in oncology.
We intend to continue to leverage the technology.
We have a [inaudible] that we acquired through the Trubion acquisition particularly on the bio-specific field.
We have a couple of candidates we want to move in clinic hopefully by the end of this year that will really start to leverage the multispecific value that we originally saw through that acquisition.
I guess one final observation I'd make for you Jim is that in terms of our future M&amp;A activity our focus now is really to look at revenue generators and/or something that are very close to approval about to be launched.
So going forward on the M&amp;A side at least we are not targeting development programs or earlier stage clinical products similar to what Trubion represented in terms of an M&amp;A profile for a company.
Great thank you very much for that answer.
Just a quick follow-up on the Phase II data we're looking for that for SBI-087 end of 2012.
Has that come out and look good is that what you said? The Phase IIb data is for MVA-85 and that's the TB candidate and we are expecting data the end of this year.
And I also said we were looking for Phase II SBI-087 last I heard it was in Phase II.
Did that report out and look good and Pfizer said "All right.
We're moving on"? Ph.D.</strong> Actually some of that data will be coming out in the upcoming [inaudible] meeting and as Dan said earlier well this has been a candidate that Pfizer had been developing.
We don't have full visibility into the development program.
Based on what we do know and what we can communicate to you is that in that Phase II eficacy study the efficacy of the molecule it did meet its primary endpoint it was safe.
More information as I said will be coming out on those clinical outcomes in UR and I think the abstracts are going to be available in the next couple of weeks.
Okay great.
Thanks.
So I guess this is the end of the day unless you find a partner for that product that product’s going nowhere further for you guys.
Yes we're not prepared to make an investment in that program at this stage.
Okay.
Very good.
And a final question.
You'd said Building 55 at this juncture you're feeling fairly confident that assuming all goes well end of fourth quarter end of '14 you can get a license to start producing there starting the first quarter of '15.
Yes our current plan brings us to the end of 2014 for licensure and it's based on the feedback we got from FDA.
As I indicated we do have programs underway to fulfill the plan both in terms of comparability study and non-clinical studies to demonstrate that the product manufactured in 55 is indeed comparable to what is currently licensed in Building 12.
Great.
Well thanks for taking my questions and congratulations to Fuad on Executive of the Year in Maryland.
Yes thank you Jim.
We'll pass that along.
Thanks.
Maybe if I can just follow up on several other questions that have been asked.
On the corporate development side should we assume that future deals will be focused more on areas of expertise that you already have maybe potentially anti-infectives as opposed to moving into oncology or autoimmune? And as you think about late-stage assets can you give us a sense of what the competitor dynamics are in attaining such an asset and how you see yourself positioned to get them? Ian thanks for the question and thanks for participating today.
So in terms of our core strategy we are focused on infectious disease oncology and autoimmune.
We believe that they represent a potential for niche market opportunity for us and I think the targets for Emergent in terms of new term acquisitions would be marketed products or near-marketed products in that space.
So I think we will continue to focus on what we've historically shown as part of our core competency and try to define acquisitions where we can leverage capabilities here whether it's manufacturing capabilities whether it's the government side of our relationships in terms of sales and deliveries and contracts.
So there could be various aspects and the acquisitions need not be just in the biosciences space.
They also could be targeted to biodefense.
So it's a slighter broader universe than the oncology and autoimmune that you described.
So the competition is clearly stiff.
There are a limited number of such opportunities and when they're there there tends to be some interest in an acquisition.
Through some of the processes that we've developed internally and our selection criteria we do believe we've identified some very interesting candidates and products that are available and could be transacted.
It's always uncertain as to whether you'll be able to complete any such transaction.
Of course we'll announce the transaction at the appropriate time.
But we believe that there are selected targets out there that are transactable and that we could succeed in overall plan in terms of growth through M&amp;A.
Okay.
I just wanted to follow up on the TB vaccine program.
I know you provided some qualitative feedback but if you were to qualify what type response is needed for an early filing or an early approval based on the phase 2 trial is there a benchmark that you and the [restorians] have agreed or your clinical consultants have pointed to? That's a great question.
The answer is no upfront but we will continue to as public health authorities convene conferences and as regulatory authorities really focus on the question of tuberculosis and how to get products quickly approved.
I think that the report that I mentioned in my prepared text's is another example of just how important it is globally to address this TB threat and our candidate being the lead at this point in terms clinical development I think we have a unique opportunity to work with authorities to come up with a paradigm that would allow for allow early conditional licensure and start to address the disease more globally.
But right now there is no agreement with regulatory authorities and I don't anticipate that happening until really post licensure.
Jim do you have anything to add to that.
Ph.D.</strong> Yes just one comment is over the last year or so we have really engaged in several active dialogue with world or regional public health agencies and regulatory agencies and that dialogue will actually serve as guidance on how we plan to commercialize the vaccine both in the developing world as well as a more developed world.
So I guess in conclusion there is a strong desire to address this.
Assuming that we get positive results it's had to really describe exactly what that is.
I think Jim gave an idea of what that might look like but it's not definitive.
In assuming that they are positive in the eyes of the regulatory agencies and public health authorities couples with the desires I think that we will be able to map some path towards accelerated or conditional approval.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Jeff.
Ladies and gentleman that concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation.
Please note that today's call has been recorded and a replay will available beginning later today through May 17th.
Alternatively there is available a webcast of today's call an archived version of which will be available later today accessible through the company’s website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com and clicking on the investor tab.
Thank you again we look forward to speaking with all of you in the future.
Goodbye.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: transcripts@seekingalpha.com.
Thank you! we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!  Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Emergent BioSolutions First Quarter 2013 financial results conference call.
My name is Karris and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to hand the call over to your host for today Mr.
Bob Burrows.
Please proceed.
Thank you Karris.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Again my name is Bob Burrows I am Vice President of Investor Relations for Emergent and thank you for joining us today as we discuss Emergent BioSolutions' first quarter 2013 financial results.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call this afternoon with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi our President and CEO; and Bob Kramer our Chief Financial Officer.
Following the prepared comments we will conduct a Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I am compelled to remind everyone that during the call management may make projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events and the Company's prospects or future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
You are encouraged to review Emergent's filings with the SEC on forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
For the benefit of those who may be listening to the replay this call is held and recorded on May 2 2013.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today's call.
So again please do reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today's press release may be found on our website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com under investors/news.
And with that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent Biosolutions' President and CEO.
Dan? Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call today.
In my prepared comments I will briefly touch on our financial performance for the quarter and our guidance for the full year and the second quarter.
I'll then discuss our year to date operational performance and highlight the key milestones for the remainder of 2013.
To begin total revenue for the first quarter was $43.1 million this is within the $40 million to $50 million range that we reaffirmed last week.
During the first quarter we realized a net loss of $8.1 million or $0.22 per share.
In terms of guidance for the full year 2013 we reaffirm our forecast of total revenue of $290 million to $310 million and net income of between $20 million to $30 million.
For the second quarter 2013 we forecast total revenues of between $70 million to $80 million.
Bob Kramer will provide more detail on both our financial performance and our guidance in a moment.
Let me now turn to the operational performance of each of our business uni5ts during the first quarter.
Beginning with the BioDefense Division we continue to manufacture and deliver doses of BioThrax through the SNS under our current $1.25 billion contract.
We also continue to advance the program for large-scale manufacturing of BioThrax in Building 55.
Specifically after having successfully completed the pilot non-clinical studies this quarter we received written confirmation from the FDA that the design of our pivotal non-clinical studies is acceptable.
This is a very important step towards licensure of Building 55 and we remain on track to submit our sBLA filing to the FDA in 2014 with regulatory approval possibly in May 2014 or in 2015.
Timing of both the filing and approval of course is dependent on the interactions and feedback with FDA among other factors.
In addition as part of our ongoing efforts to expand the BioThrax label to include a post-exposure prophylaxis or PEP indication we initiated a pivotal antibiotic non-interference clinical study.
We anticipate completing this study later this year which would position us for submitting our sBLA in 2014.
Turning to our BioSciences Division let me focus on TRU-016 our ADAPTIR protein therapeutic candidate from the important trials targeting CLL.
During the quarter TRU-016 received ' orphan medicinal product' designation by the European Commission.
We also initiated engineering runs of TRU-016 in our Baltimore facility to support clinical and ultimately commercial manufacturing of the product.
More recently we completed enrolment in Study 16201 the Phase II open-label combination study of Bendamustine and relapsed/refractory CLL.
We also announced our intention to expand Study 16009 the Phase I open-label combination study with rituximab in front line CLL.
The decision to expand Study 16009 is based on a combination of strong patient enrolment and encouraging early safety and efficacy data.
The efficacy signal that we are seeing in patients is strong enough but we want to explore whether efficacy is similarly robust at a lower dose.
The expanded protocol will actually include two new cohorts one will examine a lower dose of TRU-016 with rituximab in front line CLL while the other will evaluate the combination in a wholly new population specifically relapsed/refractory CLL patients.
Additionally we released exciting pre-clinical data on certain of our other ADAPTIR-based candidates which we believe further supports the partnering efforts that are underway.
Speaking of partnering let me take a few moments to discuss with you our approach to partnering.
We are making real progress in our efforts to partner our BioSciences preclinical and clinical assets.
As we have said over the next 12 months we are looking to partner the MVA and ADAPTIR platform technologies as well as the preclinical and clinical product candidates based on these platforms including TRU-016.
To-date we have received interest from a number of companies for these assets and based on discussions thus far we fully expect to be in a position to cover these programs in accordance with our growth plan.
Now let me take a moment to talk about a news from a week ago.
Last Tuesday we announced an agreement to acquire the Healthcare Protective Products Division or HPPD from Bracco Diagnostics Inc.
As you may recall the principal asset is RSDL and FDA cleared broad spectrum topical skin decontamination product intended to neutralize or remove chemical warfare agents including nerve agents mustard gas and toxins.
We are very excited about the HPPD business and its growth potential because it will provide diversification of our business and broaden our BioDefense franchise into chemical countermeasures which we believe is an attractive and growing market.
It will also expand our product sales with the addition of a second licensed product with multi-year procurement contracts with U.S.
government and foreign government agencies.
Finally it will enable us to leverage our core capabilities in manufacturing (indiscernible) contract (indiscernible) materials and product distribution as we look to substantially expand the sales of RSDL across U.S.
and international markets.
In terms of financial performance HPPD's total revenues for 2010 through 2012 average approximately $20 million a year.
In addition the business comes with a five-year that's 2012 to 2017 IDIQ procurement contract with the DoD valued at up to $240 million.
We expect HPPD to contribute to our revenue and net income exclusive of transaction cost beginning in 2013 with further growth anticipated as we grow and expand the current business.
The acquisition is a solid and promising start to the implementation of our growth plan and provides insight into how we believe we'll convert our business and achieve our growth targets through highly effective synergistic value-added transactions.
We continue to assess addition of products and businesses that fit our criteria and we remain confident that we will be successful in fully implementing our plan during the three-year plan period.
Finally let me wrap up with our milestones.
For the remainder of 2013 we anticipate addressing progress through licensure of Building 55 by initiating the pivotal clinical studies using consistency in all material completing the TRU-016 combination studies and reporting data at ASH in December closing the HPPD acquisition along with the integration of their operations into ours and having RSDL contribute to our financial performance for the year securing partners for our clinical and preclinical programs and our platform technologies and targeting additional acquisitions that drive us further towards revenue and net income flow.
I look forward to reporting our continued progress on all of these fronts throughout the rest of 2013.
That concludes my prepared comments and I will now turn it over to Bob Kramer our Chief Financial Officer who will give you more details on our financial results.
Bob? Thank you Dan.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'd like to make some general comments about our guidance for the full year and the second quarter and then turn to both our consolidated performance for the quarter compared to prior year and then detail the performance of our two operating divisions during the first quarter.
To start with we are reaffirming our full-year forecast of between $290 million and $310 million in total revenue split between $230 million to $240 million in product sales and $60 million to $70 million of grant and contract revenue.
We're also reaffirming our full-year net income forecast of between $20 million and $30 million.
In addition in the second quarter of 2013 we anticipate total revenues of between $70 million to $80 million.
As Dan referenced earlier we've made the decision to expand Study 16009 the open label study combining TRU and rituximab in front line CLL.
We've also made a decision to further support the ADAPTIR platform by strategically investing in several preclinical candidates using this technology.
Both efforts the extension of Study 16009 and investment in preclinical candidates are being done in support of our partnering strategy for these assets.
While the R&amp;D cost for these efforts will be higher than our original plan it will not affect our net income guidance for 2013.
Turning to our consolidated financial performance total revenues for the quarter were $43.1 million which included $30.4 million in product sales and $12.7 million in grants and contract revenue.
This compares to total revenue of $50.3 million for the prior year.
The year-over-year reduction was primarily a result of two factors; first fewer BioThrax doses delivered during the period the difference is essentially the closing of one BioThrax lot; and secondly lower grants and contracts revenues due to payments we received in the first quarter of 2012 from Abbott and Pfizer related to the development partnerships associated with TRU-016 and SBI-087 respectively.
Our gross profit for the period was $24.7 million with a margin of 81%.
Our R&amp;D expense was higher than prior year period by approximately $5 million which (indiscernible).
And lastly we reported a net loss of $8.1 million compared to a net loss of $6.8 million in 2012.
These results were in line with our expectations.
Turning to the balance sheet we continue to show a strong capital position.
Our combined cash and accounts receivable balance totaled $193 million consisting of $130 million in cash and $63 million in accounts receivables.
As compared to the year end 2012 balance of $238 million the $45 million sequential reduction is comprised of a lower cash balance of approximately $11 million and a lower accounts receivable balance of approximately $34 million.
Rounding out the balance sheet our long-term debt was $62 million which was level with amount at year-end 2012.
At the division level the BioDefense unit continued to manufacture and deliver doses of BioThrax under the current multi-year CDC contract generating product sales of $30.4 million down $4 million from 2012.
The reduction in product sales is driven primarily by fewer doses of BioThrax delivered during the period which is attributable to the timing of deliveries.
Based on our reaffirmed forecast for 2013 we expect deliveries to pick up as they historically have done in quarters two through four and therefore we anticipate the BioThrax product sales will smooth out over the course of the remainder of the year.
The fourth quarter 2013 gross margin on BioThrax product sales was 81% which is at the historical upper end of the range.
This reflects continued solid operational performance at our Lansing manufacturing facility.
By comparison the quarter one 2012 gross margin was 78%.
Turning to our other division the BioSciences unit continue to make progress on advancing development of our oncology and autoimmune programs and technologies.
During the quarter the division incurred R&amp;D expenses of $13.1 million up from $8 million in 2012.
Of the $5 million increase approximately $3 million is related to the elimination of the CVR liability associated with project's termination of the SBI-087 development program in 2012.
The balance of the 2013 increase is attributable to additional investment in our BioSciences technologies and programs mainly TRU-016 and ADAPTIR in furtherance of our initiatives to better position these assets for future partnering.
Finally as we commented last week we announced the HPPD acquisition.
We anticipate this acquisition will have a modest contribution to our 2013 performance as we integrate the RSDL product into our portfolio.
We will be in a better position to quantify the amount of this contribution following the closing of the deal which we anticipate will be in the third quarter.
That concludes my comments.
I will now turn the call back over to the operator to begin the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator please proceed.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Cory Kasimov with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
This is Whitney on for Cory.
Two quick questions.
First on Building 55 just wondering if you guys have had any discussions with the government or have any updated thoughts on the logistics of supply if Building 55 comes online before your contract is up and then secondly if you have any updated thoughts around your BD strategy post HPPD acquisition? With respect to 55 we continue to believe that there would be a feathering in of doses from 55 to supplement Building 12 deliveries.
The actual mechanics and the timing and the quantities are yet to be worked out.
That's something that we're going to have to have discussions with CDC.
Probably sometime next year we would begin those discussions to look at the mechanics to announce the timing et cetera.
We would expect that many of those deliveries would be pursuant to a new contract but again the mechanics are yet to be discussed with the government.
In terms of future BD activities as we said our growth plan really targets acquisitions and revenue generators and products or businesses that immediately contribute to the bottom line as well.
So I think the RSDL acquisition is a good example just holistically of the types of things that we are looking for not necessarily in terms of size but in terms of the way it contributes to our overall growth.
So we believe there are a number of other opportunities out there and we continue to focus on bringing one or more of those across the goal line over the course of the rest of the year.
So hopefully we will be successful and be able to report out to you as those mature and occur.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Molloy with Janney.
Please proceed.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a quick the $230 million to $240 million product guidance is that inclusive or exclusive of contribution from RSDL? And then second the R&amp;D numbers total seems persistently kind of high I know you guys are showing a number of R&amp;D projects I mean at what point could we expect to see a meaningful decrease in the R&amp;D number going forward? So first Jim this is Bob on your revenue question those guidance numbers exclude any impact of RSDL.
Those are the guidance numbers that we communicated earlier.
So just to be clear they did not include any RSDL sales.
And I guess on the second question the R&amp;D spend as we have communicated in the past 2013 will be a bit of a transition year for us as we fully implement the growth plan and the objectives around that that we announced last fall.
We clearly have some projects and products that we continue to be excited about and we think hold a lot of value for the Company and for us it's a matter of making the right decisions in 2013 as we again transition from where we started with that portfolio to the end of the year.
Just to add to that Jim with respect to the guidance numbers that I think Bob indicated it's not clear exactly when this is going to cause we anticipate sometime in Q3 so we'll have much better visibility once the (indiscernible) as to what the contributions might be for the financial performance both from a top line and bottom line.
Maybe a couple of quick follow-ups if I may the gross margin is still excellent in line with where it's been can you give your thoughts on where that could go to in 2014 should the HPPD close obviously a lower margin business there? And then on the capital structure you guys delivered a debt certainly given the consistency of your earnings do you see some room to take on debt if you'd like to if you wanted to what's the thought on the capital structure if you're looking to make an acquisition that perhaps you have to go to the market or you can't do from cash on hand? On the gross margin question clearly the 81% as I indicated earlier is at the upper end of our historical range if you look at where we've been over the last 10 years.
I mean I would just return you to the historical range which has been at 75% to 80% range and it is too early to predict with certainty what the impact of the RSDL sales would have on that margin.
I don't think we expect them to be that high but we won't know for sure until we get them integrated them in part of Emergent going forward.
And on the capital structure side we continue to look at the most efficient ways to use our balance sheet and our cash in furtherance of our growth plan.
So I don't want to get real specific but we clearly have the ability and flexibility to do a number of things as we look at these transactions.
So I think that's all we are willing to say for now.
Your next question comes from the line of Nicholas Bishop with Cowen and Company.
Please proceed.
Just a couple of questions first on HPPD just with modelling are you willing to tell us what the pre-tax operating margin of HPPD was at the time of the acquisition? I'm not sure we are understanding the question.
You are looking for the pre-tax operating margin in the hands of the seller? That's right.
So the EBITDA? That would work too yes.
So I think what we said historically given the range of the revenue which is sort of in the $20 million run rate and given some estimates on the gross margin which we expect to be around the 50% range we haven't given I'll call it sort of the below further below the income statement guidance and it's really difficult for us to do that at this juncture.
I think again the best course is to wait for further information.
Once we get this integrated then we'll have a much better figures to give the investment community in terms of where this is headed.
But again at the bottom line we are anticipating that will be accretive beginning this year after backing out the transaction cost and then growing the business into 2014 and beyond we believe the contributions will further increase.
Okay.
Just going back and reviewing the SEC filings of the predecessor to Bracco there (indiscernible) entity that was a more diversified business but it had pre-tax operating margins in the range of about 8% to 10%.
Obviously this is before you grow the revenues but is that an absurd range to be thinking about or can you give me any help there? Again I think if you look at the composition of the Bracco Diagnostics businesses they were quite diverse.
They included contract manufacturing operations as well as device.
So it's very difficult to Dan's point very difficult for us right now I mean pre-closing on this to say with certainty.
It would be inappropriate for us to do that.
I think we've given sufficient guidance now that where we think the revenue will be where we think the gross margin will be there will be some SG&amp;A and some R&amp;D and again we think it has been a – we feel very confident it's going to contribute positively to our bottom line and we will be in a better position to clarify that after closing.
Okay that's great.
And I don't know if you said it before but the mix of revenues that HPPD was receiving on RSDL was that primarily sales to the DoD on was it more split between the DoD and others? It was primarily DoD against that contract and they had some non-DoD sales including sales to foreign governments but it was predominantly DoD revenue.
And I mean the customer base is attracted to us because it's across the globe we have got approximately 30 government agencies and ministries purchasing the product.
So from that perspective it's a nice base to build upon and we're actually seeing we are also seeing purchases within the first responder community again something that we think we can leverage and build upon and there are growth potential markets that we look at for expanding RSDL sales that we talked about previously.
So it's a wonderful launching pad for us to expand upon.
So I don't look at the current book of business as really being the future book of business and I think we'll come back and share with you some thoughts as to how we believe and the timing for growing the business over the next several years.
Okay that's great.
And if I could ask one more and then I'll get back in the queue.
Could you just talk a little bit about the composition of RSDL products and kind of what the barriers to competition are with that particular product? Sure I'll start and then I'd ask Adam to contribute a bit.
So this product was initially developed via the Canadian government and then U.S.
probably with the DoD in particular also contributed in its development and licensure in accordance by FDA.
So its historical roots go back to government demand and need.
The way the product works I won't get into the specific composition I'll ask Adam to address that but the final device is packaged in a sealed foil wrapper if you will and it is a sponge that has been impregnated with the proprietary lotion that comes with the business and once an individual has been exposed to a chemical agent or compound they simply lift open the seal pull the packet pull out the sponge and wipe down the exposed area and the product is really designed to clear and decontaminate the skin from the exposure.
Adam maybe you can get into a little bit greater detail about the lotion and its composition and the protections that we have with respect to competition? Sure.
So yes as Dan mentioned I mean it's basically a small molecule that's formulated into a lotion and impregnated as Dan mentioned into a sponge and then as Dan mentioned there was an original patent that was associated with that chemical and sponge but it's basically leveraging kind of typical or traditional neutralization chemistry when it comes to organophosphates or other nerve agents or toxins.
So it's basically breaking bonds and neutralizing those agents.
So in terms of the competitive flood and the way in which we think we can maintain our position there is a tremendous know-how in terms of the way the formulation works and the way the sponge has been developed and the application of the lotion to the sponge that is proprietary.
There are some exclusivity arrangements that we have gotten in place for some of the key components that are necessary in order to manufacture this product.
So there is manufacturing know-how there is proprietary formulation if you will we also have finished information that is trade secret protected and there is exclusivity around key components and ingredients that go into the product around the sponge itself which is proprietary and unique to the RSDL platform.
Okay that's very helpful.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) At this time there are no further questions in queue and I would now like to hand the call back over to Mr.
Rob Burrows for closing remarks.
Thank you Karris and ladies and gentlemen that's all the time we have today.
Thank you for your participation.
Please note that today's call has been recorded and a replay will be available beginning later today through May 17.
Alternatively available is a webcast for today's call an archived version of which will be available later today accessible through the Company website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com and clicking on the 'Investors' tab.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Emergent BioSolutions Second Quarter 2013 financial results conference call.
My name is Philip and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Robert Burrows Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Philip.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Again my name is Bob Burrows.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss Emergent BioSolutions' financial results for the second quarter and first six months of 2013.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call this afternoon with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi our President and CEO; and Bob Kramer our Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared comments we will conduct a Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I am compelled to remind everyone that during the call management may make projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events and the company's prospects of future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
You are encouraged to review Emergent's filings with the SEC on forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
For the benefit of those who may be listening to a replay this call is held and recorded on August 5 2013.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today's call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today's press release may be found on our website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com under investors.
And with that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions' President and CEO.
Dan?  Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone.
And thank you for joining our call today.
During my prepared comments I will briefly touch on our financial performance for Q2 and year-to-date and our guidance for the third quarter and the full year of 2013.
I will then discuss the Q2 performance and operational developments related to our biodefense and biosciences divisions.
Finally I will review the key milestones for the remainder of the year.
To begin total revenue for the second quarter was $82 million which is slightly above the 70 to 80 million range that we provided on our call in May.
Total revenues for the first six months was a 125.5 million.
Net income for the second quarter was 10.5 million or $0.29 per share and year-to-date net income was $2.4 million or $0.07 per share.
In terms of guidance we are reaffirming our full year 2013 forecast for total revenue of 290 million to 310 million and net income of between $20 million to $30 million.
For the third quarter we forecast total revenues of between $70 million to $80 million.
Bob Kramer our CFO will provide more detail on both our financial performance and guidance in a moment.
Let me now provide a summary of the key developments for each of our operating divisions and let me start with BioDefense.
Last Friday we closed on the acquisition of the Healthcare Protective Products Division from Bracco Diagnostics and with it the RSDL products.
RSDL is cleared for marketing by the FDA for removal or neutralization of chemical warfare agents from the skin and is the only personal chemical skin decontamination deployed by the U.S.
Department of Defense to protect military personnel.
The acquisition of RSDL diversifies our product revenues with the addition of a second licensed countermeasure in our portfolio bringing with it multi-year procurement contracts with both U.S.
and foreign government agencies.
In addition RSDL broadens our BioDefense franchise into chemical countermeasures which we believe is an attractive and growing market.
For the remainder of the year we'll look to expand the sales opportunity for RSDL and to evaluate potential label expansion such as toxic industrial chemicals and pesticides.
This acquisition is an important milestone towards the implementation of our growth plans and provides insight into how we believe we can build our business and achieve our growth targets through highly effective synergistic value-added transactions.
With respect to key developments regarding BioThrax as of Q2 2013 we have delivered approximately 12.4 million doses representing approximately $330 million to the SNS under our existing 44.75 million doses $1.25 billion contract.
We look to continue to deliver doses under this multi-year contract which extends through September of 2016.
In July we received approval to market BioThrax in Germany from the Paul-Ehrlich-Institut making BioThrax the only vaccine approved in Germany for the prevention of Anthrax disease.
The German approval provides for a three-dose primary series over six months with tri-annual boosters thereafter.
With this approval we expect to further expand international registration of BioThrax through mutual recognition within the EU to support member states efforts to protect their citizens against the threat of Anthrax.
Regarding the BioThrax label expansion program we have made further progress on two remaining trials associated with the post-exposure prophylaxis or PEP indication.
We recently announced that the Phase III clinical study evaluating the immunogenicity and safety of a three-dose BioThrax PEP regimen managed primary and key secondary end points.
We have now submitted the final clinical study report to BARDA and the FDA.
Additionally we have completed enrollment and patient dosing in the pivotal antibody non-interference trial with final study report submission targeted for mid-2014.
Following that we expect to be in a position to submit our application to the FDA to expand the BioThrax label to include post-exposure use.
Finally let me provide an update on our progress to secure licensure of Building 55 for large scale manufacturing.
As have discussed in the past we reached agreement with the FDA on our comparability acceptance criteria and the endpoints of our non-clinical study.
Based on that understanding in Q2 we submitted to the FDA comprehensive data package related to product manufacture in B-55 to be used with the non-clinical study.
That data package included among other things our proposed selection of key proteins present in BioThrax that we believe demonstrate comparability between material produced in buildings 12 and 55.
We recently received FDA’s feedback on the comparability profile.
Specifically they requested that we expand the number of proteins to be used to establish comparability.
We expect to address this request directly with the FDA in the next 60 days and in the meantime we have initiated the additional analytical response to FDA’s request.
Currently we anticipate completing both the comparability analysis and the non-clinical study in 2014 and submitting our supplemental BLA filing in late 2014 or early 2015 with FDA approval in the due course thereafter.
We will keep apprised of our progress with FDA as we continue to move ever closer to this important milestone for the company.
Let me now turn to our BioSciences Division and provide a summary of recent developments regarding our lead clinical candidate TRU-016 which was recently assigned the generic name Epratuzumab.
Earlier this year we competed enrollment in the Phase II study of Epratuzumab in combination with Bendamustine in relapsed CLL.
We will present data from the [two main] dose of this study at ASH in December of this year.
Patients will continue to be to watched determine the duration of the response and progression free survival.
In addition earlier this year we completed enrolment in the Phase Ib study in combination with rituximab in front line CLL.
More recently we amended this study by adding two additional cohorts and in July we enrolled the first patient in the lower dose cohort of the expanded portion of the study.
We expect to complete enrollment of the amended phase of the study by year-end.
And we plan to present data from the original cohort of the study as well as available data from the amended protocol of the study at ASH in December.
We will continue to follow these patients to determine the duration of response and progression-free survival.
As we've discussed during prior calls we are looking to partner rituximab and our preclinical candidates and platforms consistent with the objectives set out in our growth plan.
To-date our partnering efforts have generated significant interest from multiple parties driven primarily by the promising data seen thus far as well as the additional data anticipated later this year.
We continue to target announcing the partnering deal by the end of this year or in Q1 2014.
Finally let me wrap up with the operational milestones for the remainder of 2013.
We anticipate concluding the pivotal BioThrax PEP antibiotic non-interference study positioning us for submission of the sBLA to FDA in late 2014.
We also anticipate completing the NuThrax two dose PEP Phase II safety and immunogenicity study the results of which will position us for initiating Phase III studies.
We also look to complete enrollment in rituximab Phase Ib combination study and reporting treatment data in the Phase Ib and the Phase II combination studies at ASH in December and look to secure partners for both rituximab and our preclinical programs.
Finally we look to announce other acquisitions of additional products for the company to help leverage our competencies and drive further progress towards the achievement of our growth plan.
That concludes my prepared comments and I will now turn it over to Bob Kramer our Chief Financial officer who will give you more detail on our financial results.
Bob? Thank you Dan.
Good afternoon everyone.
Let me start by adding a bit of color to Dan's earlier comment on our revenue and net income guidance for 2013 and then I will turn to our performance for the quarter for the first six months of 2013.
We are reaffirming our forecast for full year 2013 total revenues of between 290 million and 310 million and net income between 20 million and 30 million.
With respect to revenue mix we forecast product sales of 235 million to 245 million inclusive of RSDL sales which we anticipate will contribute approximately $5 million to $8 million in additional product sales over the remainder of this year.
We also forecast contracts and grants of between $55 million and $65 million.
Lastly we anticipate third quarter total revenue of between $70 million and $80 million.
I will now turn to our financial performance for the quarter and year-to-date.
Let me start out by saying that our core business generated another solid quarter of financial results as evidenced by our total revenue for the quarter coming in at 82.4 million which included 65.6 million in product sales and 16.8 million in grants and contracts.
This is 17% better than Q2 of the prior year which was 70.4 million in total revenue.
The year-over-year increase was a result of increased BioThrax sales and the higher average selling price per dose.
The gross margin for the quarter was 74% within our typical 70% to 80% range.
Our gross R&amp;D expenses were slightly lower than prior year our SG&amp;A expense was higher than the prior year by approximately 2.6 million.
I will touch on this variance when I give the year-to-date performance as the explanation is essentially the same both quarter and year-to-date.
To conclude the Q2 P&amp;L discussion we reported net income of 10.5 million compared to net income of 7.6 million in 2012 a 37% increase.
These Q2 results were very strong and exceeded our expectations.
On a year-to-date basis our financial performance reflects equally strong execution against our revenue and net income goals for the year.
Total revenues stand at 125.5 million compared to 120.7 million in 2012 a 4% increase.
Gross profit for the period was 73.3 million a 6.5 million improvement versus 2012.
Gross margin for the first six months of 2013 was 76% identical to last year.
R&amp;D expenses were higher than prior year period by approximately 4.1 million primarily due to the following: First our Baltimore facility is now in service with depreciation of approximately $2 million year-to-date being included in R&amp;D expenses.
And secondly as we have been -- as we previously have stated we continue to invest in our BioScience's technologies and programs in furtherance of our initiative to better position these assets for future partnering.
Similarly our SG&amp;A expense was higher than prior year for the year-to-date period by 3.1 million.
The increases in the second quarter and first six months of 2013 were due largely to costs associated with restructuring our UK operations coupled with higher professional service fees.
We anticipate that SG&amp;A expense will continue to be higher in 2013 versus 2012 due principally to these restricting costs along with costs associated with additional and ongoing M&amp;A efforts including our HPPD acquisition and efforts to partner our BioSciences candidates and platform technologies.
For the first six months of 2013 net income stands at 2.4 million up 1.6 million from last year.
Our financial performance year-to-date is in line with our expectations and is reflective of the strength of the core business.
We are further encouraged by year-to-date performance knowing that the addition of RSDL to our existing BioDefense business will be a good first step towards diversification and expansion of the core business.
Turning now to our balance sheet we remain very in very sound financial condition.
Our combined cash and accounts receivable balance totaled $210 million consisting of 156 million in cash and 54 million in receivables at the end of the quarter.
This compares to combined balances for Q1 of 2013 of 193 and year-end 2012 of 238 respectively.
Rounding out the balance sheet our long-term debt was 60.5 million consisting entirely of real estate backed notes.
That concludes my comments.
I will now turn the call over to the operator so that we can begin with the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator please proceed.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Cory Kasimov from JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Thank you for taking the questions.
I guess my first question is on the FDA feedback you received regarding the ongoing work to validate Building 55.
So I am wondering if you expand the number of proteins to be used as the agency suggested how might that impact the timelines you gave or does it?  Yeah good afternoon Cory this is Dan.
Thanks for joining us today.
So it does the way we look at it now first we want to sit down and talk to the FDA about their comment to us.
But as I mentioned in the prepared remarks we have initiated the analytical work that would support moving forward in the face of that comments and then what we'll look to do is complete the non-clinical as well as the comparability testing for the facility in 2014.
So the reality was we had previously split up our non-clinical and comparability into two separate steps.
We are now going to do those in the same -- at the same time period.
So we've collapsed those [in some respects] [ph].
Okay so you don't know how long it may push timelines back if you have to do what the FDA is currently asking? So again in my prepared remarks I did anticipate that we will be in a position to complete all of our work next year and then file for the BLA late next year or into 2015.
Okay and then with the German approval of BioThrax I guess this really applies to any other country internationally at what point do you believe international sales could become a material revenue driver for Emergent.
Is this all contingent on Building 55 or is it even contingent on the second train in Building 55.
No I think Building 55 will provide sufficient capacity for us to meet the U.S.
government's requirement and still have a meaningful number of doses for international sales.
As we have discussed with investors in the past we don't see the international market as large as the U.S.
market.
While we see it as a significant contributor we do believe that Building 55 capacity will allow us to address that market opportunity.
But this is without -- to get to your last point without the need for a second train.
Okay.
And then my last question is just wondering why you lowered the dose of TRU-016 in front line CLL study.
Yeah I mean generally what we are looking do is see if we achieve the same levels of efficacy with the lower dose which could have significant commercial advantages for us.
It is unrelated to any adverse event profile; thus far we have not seen any issues at all on the safety side with the product.
So this is really more around being able to expand the number of doses that we can deliver out of our manufacturing facility than for any other reason.
Scott Stromatt our Chief Medical Officer is on the line as well.
Scott do you want to add to that.
You have covered it perfectly Dan.
There were no adverse event signals and so we are doing basically dose exploration to see if we can replicate the same type of efficacy that we are seeing at the higher dose with a lower dose.
We will be presenting this data at ASH in December.
All right.
Sounds good.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Thank you.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Dan maybe another follow up on that Building 55 process going forward.
What do you think led the FDA to ask for your inclusion of a greater number of proteins? Thanks for the joining the call today Eric.
I appreciate the question.
It’s an excellent question.
So what we put together was a protein profile of the product that we thought was decisive and demonstrated full comparability.
The product dose consists of quite a number proteins and I think what the FDA wanted to do was to expand the list maybe to generate a broader and more robust comparability profile.
But the dataset we put together I think comprises a substantial portion of the product in terms of the composition of it from an efficacy standpoint that profile in the non-clinical so that it wasn’t efficacious with our product.
So we think that the initial list that we assembled and submitted to FDA was appropriate and adequate.
So we need to understand when we sit down with FDA what they are trying to get at with the expanded list.
I am pretty confident they looked at the world perhaps a little differently than we do sometimes but they are always rational and they are open to scientific explanations and discussion.
And I think they have a key objective here of getting this accomplished.
So I am pretty confident that our dialog with them will be productive and we will find an appropriate solution to next steps.
So you are not absolutely sure that at the end of the day they are actually going to require you to generate these data on greater numbers of proteins is that right? No that’s right we are not because they haven’t seen all the data that we have.
We have a fair amount of data.
It's caused -- leads us to question the appropriateness on some of the proteins that they have identified and they haven’t seen that data.
So and supporting some of the proteins that we have in our list that they may not have focused on.
So it will take just a bit of a dialog to educate them on the science behind it and as I said they are very science oriented they are driven by data.
So I think once we sit down and share all the information we have got we'll come up with an appropriate list that satisfies both parties.
And did you just say the data that you have on an incremental number of proteins or larger set suggest that you are seeing consistency across the building materials? Yeah we believe there is a strong body of evidence demonstrating consistency between the products produced in both buildings.
And that was the dataset in earlier studies the non-clinical studies that's supportive of how we structured those studies and supports the efficacy that we are seeing over 55.
So I think at this point we have a tremendous amount of proteomics and other data on the configuration of the product out of 55.
We just need to get that data in front of the FDA and have the dialog.
So you essentially know even inclusive of the larger data set of proteins that the material is going to be consistent? Yeah we believe that is true.
What we need to do is talk to the FDA about what is the agreed upon profile protein profile for the products out of 12 versus 55.
Great thanks.
And one more question Dan just on the M&amp;A outlook now you have completed the RDSL acquisition.
Can you give us an update on your discussions out there with folks whether you are still seeing opportunities that look to be as good a fit as that one when we might sort of expect another milestone from you? Well we continue to target this year as a milestone for announcing another transaction and we do believe that there are opportunities out there that are transactable.
So we believe that's a realistic timetable.
Thanks a lot.
Hey thanks for taking my question could you go through the time of the filing the timing of the filing between the BLA and the expected potential approval of licensure Building 55? And then if you could talk a little bit about -- I know you said very clear in the last question that you expect the FDA will come around to your way of thinking but what are the odds that they may not they will say listen that's not enough we need some more proteins or some other data post your meeting with them.
Yeah thanks for joining the call today Jim and good to hear from you.
So as to your first question on the time period from filing to approval the PDUFA requirement is four months I have been informed.
So we typically and I typically plan for somewhere between six and possibly out to nine months between our filing submission and approval in our normal product development plans.
So I think that's a reasonable time period we are targeting.
Of course a lot depends on the interactions at that point and what they see in the filing and to the questions they may have.
But those are the data points that we look at.
And then the second question with respect to reaching agreement with FDA it's not so much convincing them that we are right and that they are not.
That's really not what I was trying to suggest.
What I am suggesting is that there are potentially additional proteins that may sense and others that may not make sense and what we need to do is discuss with the agency the right dataset to be evaluating.
And I am not saying that we are not opposed to increasing the number of proteins that we would evaluate but we want to make sure that as we increase the proteins that we are looking at are really meaningful from the standpoint of demonstrating comparability.
And I think that is where the dialog is going to be most productive to be able to demonstrate why a particular protein may or may not be indicative of comparability.
It's not so much the numbers.
It's which ones are the right ones and for what reasons.
And they look at science will prevail.
Fair enough.
And then I know that you have discussed in the past that should Building 55 come on board and tripling of potential tripling of production.
At some point you would expect it's likely that you and U.S.
government will sit down and discuss how that production would come on board and what a new contract might look like.
What are the timelines I know that typically last contract about a year before the contract is to start you guys hammer out the negotiations what the time that you think might happen should building 55 be poised to come on line and you have in service and we can triple our production at some point you guys will need to sit down and talk about what the U.S.
government would want from you guys.
When do you think that might happen? No it's a great point and one that we think about often.
And typically you are right; it's about a year ahead of expiration of the ongoing contract where they sit down.
We are in an unusual circumstance given 55 and the timing for 55.
So I would expect as we get close to filing the BLA at filing we will be in a position to really sit down and discuss with them a new contract or delivery schedule for product coming out of 55.
Our preference is to be ahead of it but let's see what CBCs aptitude is or appetite I should say appetite is for having those discussions.
Great and last question I know that the gross margin in the quarter was down.
It does tend to fluctuate and we've seen that in past quarters.
Any in particular that jumped out or is it sort of a fluctuation that tends to happen here.
Yeah Jim this is Bob.
I will take that one.
I think when you look at the operating performance you really need to look at it more than just quarter-by-quarter.
It was 74% margin for the quarter and year-to-date 76%.
If you look at the trailing 12 months it was closer to 79%.
If you go back further the last couple of quarters and look at trailing 12 months it's been around 79% as well.
So I would say that it's not indicative of anything that happened uniquely during the quarter.
But I just caution you guys to look at things more on a six month or 12 month basis.
Okay thanks for taking the questions.
Thank you Philip.
And ladies and gentlemen that's all the time we have today.
Thank you for your participation.
Please note that today's call has been recorded and a replay will be available beginning later today through August 12.
Alternatively there is available a webcast for today's call an archived version of which will be available later today accessible through the Company's website.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Goodbye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Emergent BioSolutions third quarter 2013 financial results conference call.
My name is Brittney and I'll be the operator for today.
(Operator Instructions) At this time I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today Mr.
Bob Burrows.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Brittney.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss Emergent BioSolutions' financial results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2013.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call this afternoon with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi our President and CEO; and Bob Kramer our Chief Financial Officer.
Following the prepared comments we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin I am compelled to remind everyone that during the call management may make projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events and the company's prospects of future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
You are encouraged to review Emergent's filings with the SEC on Forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
For the benefit of those who may be listening to the replay this call is held and recorded on November 7 2013.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today's call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today's press release may be found on our website at www.emergentbiosolutions.com under investors/news.
And with that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions' President and CEO.
Dan? Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call today.
During my prepared comments I will discuss our Q3 and year-to-date financial results our 2013 financial guidance and our recent operational performance.
Total revenue for the third quarter was $89 million which is above the $70 million to $80 million range that we provided on our call in August.
Total revenue for the first nine months was $215 million.
Net income for the third quarter was $13.5 million or $0.37 per share and year-to-date net income was just under $16 million or $0.44 per share.
Bob Kramer will provide more details on our financial performance in a moment.
As announced in today's press release we are revising upward our 2013 forecast to the upper-end of our previous guidance.
Specifically we anticipate total revenue of $300 million to $310 million including product revenue of $250 million to $255 million and contracts and grants revenue of $50 million to $55 million.
We also anticipate net income of between $25 million to $30 million.
Now I'll summarize our recent operational performance starting with Biodefense.
Through Q3 2013 we have delivered approximately 15 million doses of BioThrax under our existing supply contract which caused a delivery of the total of 44.75 million to the SNS.
Total revenues realized today under this contract is approximately $400 million at a total contract value of $1.25 billion.
Deliveries are on schedule and we currently anticipate that deliveries under this contract will continue through Q3 2016.
In July we received approval from the Paul-Ehrlich-Institut to market BioThrax in Germany with a three-dose primary schedule over six months with triennial boosters thereafter.
This approval makes BioThrax the only vaccine approved in Germany for the prevention of anthrax disease.
With this approval we are now initiating a mutual recognition process to obtain BioThrax licensure in other key EU countries.
A key objective for Emergent in the U.S.
government is to obtain a post-exposure prophylaxis or PEP indication for BioThrax.
To this end we completed a pivotal study evaluating the immunogenicity and safety of the proposed three-dose PEP regimen.
The study made its primary and key secondary endpoints and we have submitted the clinical study report to FDA.
Additionally all vaccinations and visits have now been completed in a separate antibiotic non-interference study and we expect to be in a position to submit the final study report for this trial in mid-2014.
Our current plans contemplate that we will be submitting a supplemental BLA for the PEP label indication later next year.
Next let me provide an update on our progress to secure licensure of Building 55 for the large scale manufacturing of BioThrax.
We have completed our data package in response to the FDAs comments on our proposed comparability profile and analysis.
Due to the government shutdown our submission of that data package through the FDA was delayed but is now complete.
We are now coordinating with the FDA on a meeting date to address the analysis and we expect that meeting to occur later this year.
We continue to plan for sBLA approval of Building 55 in late 2015.
As announced in today's press release RSDL revenue in Q3 was $7 million which exceeded our expectations.
We successfully integrated the operation of this business and look to continue to grow sales of RSDL and realize the benefits from this transaction.
Let me now turn to our operations in the Biosciences division.
We have completed patient enrolment and patient dosing in Phase 2 study of Otlertuzumab in combination with Bendamustine in relapse CLL.
Additionally we continue to our enroll patients in the extended portion of the Phase 1b combination study involving Otlertuzumab with Rituximab.
This includes lower dose front-line cohort and a new replased/refractory cohort.
We expect to complete enrollment in these expanded cohorts by the yearend.
The variable data from these two studies will be presented at ASH in December.
As we've discussed in the past the key objective for Emergent is to partner our Biosciences development programs.
I am very pleased with our progress in that effort.
We have received substantial partnering interest for Otlertuzumab and we are working to complete a collaboration by the end of the year or into the first part of 2014.
We also continue to receive interest from multiple parties for our ADAPTIR bispecific technology and the preclinical programs developed using that technology.
Finally with respect to M&amp;A we continue to target acquisitions of products or companies that leverage our core competencies and drive further progress towards the achievement of our growth plan.
In summary we are extremely pleased with the continued strong performance of the company across both divisions and hope they continue to advance our partnering programs in our M&amp;A strategy in furtherance of the goals set out in the growth plan.
That concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now turn it over to Bob Kramer our CFO who will discuss our financial results in greater detail.
Thanks Dan.
Good afternoon everyone.
Let me start by adding some additional color to Dan's earlier comment on our 2013 revenue and net income guidance.
And then I'll turn our performance for the quarter and for the first nine months of the year.
Based on our results to date and supported by the visibility we have through yearend we are revising upwards our revenue net income guidance for the year.
Specifically we're narrowing guidance to the upper-end to the previous ranges and are now forecasting total revenues of between $300 million and $310 million and net income of $25 million to $30 million.
With respect to the revenue mix we're now forecasting product sales of between $250 million and $255 million comprised of BioThrax and RSDL sales and contracts and grants revenue of between $50 million and $55 million.
I'll now turn to our financial performance starting with the quarter.
Our core business turned in solid financial results evidenced by total revenues of $89 million which include product sale of $76 million and contracts and grants of $13 million.
Drilling a bit deeper product sales for the period included $69 million in BioThrax sales and $7 million of RSDL sales.
Total revenue for the quarter was 34% better than 3Q of the prior year and reflect increased shipments of BioThrax as well as the initial sales of RSDL.
Gross margin for the quarter was 74%.
Importantly the third quarter gross margin reflects the impact of RSDL sales.
Going forward we anticipate the consolidated gross margin will continue in historical range of 78% inclusive of the lower margin RSDL sales.
For 3Q 2013 our gross R&amp;D cost was slightly higher than prior year adding increase by $1.5 million as we invest in our development programs to enable partnering of certain assets.
Our SG&amp;A expense was higher than prior year by $2.8 million.
For both research and development as well as SG&amp;A I'll comment the variances when I get to the year-to-date performance as the explanation in both instances is essentially the same for the quarter and year-to-date periods.
To conclude the quarter discussion we reported net income of $13.5 million compared to net income of $6.6 million in 2012 a doubling year-over-year.
These third quarter results are very strong and exceeded our expectations.
For the year our financial performance reflects solid performance against revenue and net income targets.
Total revenue stand at $215 million compared to $187 million in 2012 a 15% increase driven by significantly expanded shipments of BioThrax doses as well as the first time revenue for RSDL sales.
Gross profit for the period was $130 million a $19 million improvement over 2012.
Gross margin for the first nine months of 2013 was 75% right in the middle of the historical range of 70% to 80%.
Year-to-date research and development expense was higher by $6 million or 7%.
The increases in the third quarter and the first nine months of 2013 were primarily due to two developments.
First our Baltimore facility is now in service and there is a depreciation associated with this facility is included in R&amp;D expenses.
Secondly we continue to invest in our Biosciences technologies and programs in furtherance of our initiatives to better position these assets for future partnering.
SG&amp;A expense was higher than prior year for the year-to-date period by $6 million or 11%.
The increases in the third quarter and first nine months of 2013 were largely due to professional service cost attributable to M&amp;A and other activities related to our growth plan.
In addition the year-to-date period also reflects the added impact of cost related to the restructuring of our U.K.
operations which were $2.8 million which we announced earlier this year.
Net income for the first nine months of 2013 was $15.9 million more than doubled the net income of $7.4 million in the first nine months of 2012.
As a reminder the 2012 period included the one-time non-cash charge of $9.6 million associated with the impairment of the SBI-087 program.
As with the quarter our financial performance year-to-date has exceeded our expectations and is a reflective of the strength of our core business and positions us well to continue to execute on our growth plan.
Let me now turn to the balance sheet.
Total cash cash equivalents and accounts receivable at the end of the quarter were $203 million consisting of $173 million in cash and $30 million in accounts receivable.
In addition the company's current debt stands at $59 million.
That concludes my comments.
I will now turn the call over to the operator so that we can begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Eric Schmidt.
Maybe just starting with you Bob the RSDL number looked quite a bit bigger than I think we had expected at least probably others as well and probably above your guidance.
Is this a run rate going forward that we should model off of? No.
I think Eric as we commented a couple of months ago historically under the prior ownership the annual sales of RSDL were in the $18 million to $20 million range.
I think our initial experience with RSDL is better than what we expected or again it is a IDIQ contract.
So the sales will be a little bit lumpy and we continue to expect that.
We can improve upon the history of what the prior owner did with the business and I would stick with the ranges that we gave before.
And maybe you said this I could have missed it the taxes in Q3 were below your guidance for what reason? Well we continue to benefit from the orphan drug treatment of certain R&amp;D expenses and tax credits.
And that'll only last as long as TRU-016 continues? It will be significantly impacted by the otlertuzumab with the TRU-016 expenses yes.
And then maybe just on TRU-016 maybe Dan can talk about whether the partners have already seen the data in the ASH abstracts and that's going to be presented at the meetings? And whether that's in any way accelerated the pace of discussions.
We're very excited about the data that's coming out on otlertuzumab.
And as we've indicated there's strong interest and we are engaged in discussions with partners.
So under the confidentiality we have shared information and I think that data is supporting the negotiations and the confidence that we have moving this to a successful completion.
And last question Dan I think you had mentioned that you were hopeful for additional European approvals of BioThrax through the mutual recognition procedures.
What countries in particular might approve it under that procedure or where are you targeting your efforts? We're staking that effort.
We haven't finalized the sequential processing of that just yet.
But it is primarily in some of the major countries there and we have prioritized it based on input from the countries that have expressed the interest as well as where we see some particularly attractive market opportunities.
As well these approvals I think will support NATO interest in the product as well so I think it has the double effect not only country interest but also potentially NATO interest.
So from our standpoint that will be a program that we will have starting this year and continuing next year.
So our expectation is that you will see our own series of approvals being announced over the course of next year.
And your next question comes from the line of Cory Kasimov.
This is Whitney on for Cory today.
And I sort of hopped on late so I apologize if this has already been answered but relative to Building 55 I think you guys said that you're still on track to submit the sBLA by next year.
So I was just wondering in terms of the FDA request whether you sort of ended up looking at a greater number of proteins or if maybe you're confident that the analytical data that you guys have will support the data you initially submitted So in terms of growth we had submitted our data package addressing the protein profile for the product and we are looking to sit down with the FDA before the yearend and just go through that data package and reach agreement on the protein profile that will be demonstrated in the consistency lot showing comparability between 12 and 55.
So we're optimistic candidly because as I said in the prior call it's really data-driven and the FDA is very science-oriented and data-oriented so I think when we go through that package that we've submitted we'll successfully target the important proteins that will demonstrate comparability and consistency with manufacturing and that will unable us to complete the comparability package and get that in front of the agency core that targeted 2015 approval.
And your next question comes from the line of James Molloy.
A couple quick questions on the products I am willing to ask a couple of omab.
On the RSDL sales I mean it was already asked but higher than expected.
It was higher than I expected as well.
Anyway the key drivers here besides just sort of the normal lumpiness in the contract and then you had spoken before about new formulations and ways to really boost sales.
Any developments on new formulation potential for RSDL? As you might expect when we originally disclose the target customers for RSDL its DoD and NATO.
There is a supply arrangement under both organizations and the predominant customer in this case was DoD as Rob explained.
There were also some NATO purchases but to a much lesser extent.
And as Bob indicated this is an IDIQ indefinite delivery indefinite quantity contract so those sales will be lumpy based on need by the Department of Defense.
So the other part new question was remind me now.
On the last call you talked about the opportunity to perhaps do new formulations put in on something to wash down a tank or something like that.
Any developments? We are still evaluating on how best to address the new market opportunities that are presented by this product and so we have not initiated any actions to start line extensions on it as of yet.
And then quickly any pull-forward from the fourth quarter on BioThrax? It was certainly a good quarter here and I know that again BioThrax can be lumpy given the batch processing and delivery.
Should we expect any quarter-to-quarter softness next quarter because some orders came in here? I think we've now got the nine months figure out there and we've given you the full year guidance and there will be a range there depending on final deliveries and release of product to be delivered so there could be some variability but I think it's a pretty tight range.
Then lastly on omag the data that came out the Phase 2 data it looked pretty strong.
I mean it's Phase 2 but for these refractory CLLs I mean Campath filed on three Phase 2s.
I know you've discussed what you need in a Phase 3 before you could file but is this something similar to a Campath where someone could do another smaller or a little bit larger Phase 2 and come into a Phase 4 later and then file on this thing? I mean could you compare sort of the data you put out versus a Campath? I think it is exciting data.
I think it supports the potential use of the product in combination setting.
And as we said previously this product plays well within a number of potential product so I think it's got a wide bandwidth potentially going forward but in terms of the actual clinical program to what might be required I'm going to ask Scott Stromatt our CMO to really address that question for you.
Scott are you online? Campath was approved a few years ago and the field has moved towards PFS data and the latest trial obinutuzumab was approved based on over 400 and so patients so we expect that we'd have to have a similar number of patients and we will discuss this with the agency at our inter-Phase 2 meeting next year.
So that's where you're thinking moving the new guidance? You're not going to be able to do a similar kind of smaller studies and get this thing through? You'll need a multi-hundred study or your partner will.
There are no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Burrows for further comments.
Thank you Brittany.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
Please note that today's call has been recorded and the replay will be available beginning later today.
Alternatively there is available webcast of today's call and archive version of which will be available later this evening accessible to through the company website.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in future.
Good luck.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation for today's conference.
You may now all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Emergent BioSolutions Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
My name is Denise and I'll be the operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Robert Burrows Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Denise.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss our financial results for 2013.
As this customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi President and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Havey Executive Vice President and President of our BioDefense Division; Barry Labinger Executive Vice President and President of our Biosciences Division; and Bob Kramer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared comments we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin I am compelled to remind everyone that during today’s call management may make projections and other forward-looking statements related to our business future events our prospects or future performance.
We may also make forward-looking statements during the Q&amp;A session.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on existing trend and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on existing trends and information.
You are encouraged to review Emergent's filings with the SEC on forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
We also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures that involve adjustments to GAAP reviews.
In order to provide greater transparency regarding Emergent’s operating performance please refer to the table which could be found in today’s press release regarding our use of non-GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations between our non-GAAP financial measures and our GAAP financial measures.
For the benefit of those who maybe listening to the replay of webcast this call was held and recorded on March 6 2014 since then Emergent may have made announcements relating topics discussed during today call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today’s press release as presented on this call or as presented in the call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today’s press release may be found on the investors’ homepage of our website at emergentbiosolutions.com.
And with that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions' President and CEO.
Dan?  Thanks Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call today.
For my prepared comments I will review the financial results and operational accomplishments for 2013 and discuss the financial forecast and operational goals for 2014.
I will then ask Adam Havey to provide an update on the operations of our BioDefense division followed by Barry Labinger who will discuss our Bioscience division operations Bob Kramer will finish with the discussion of our financial results.
To begin; for the full year 2013 total revenues were $313 million which includes product sales of $258 million and GAAP net income was $31 million these results clearly reflect the continued strength of our core business.
As you saw from our press release 2013 total revenues grew 11% product sales were up 19% and GAAP net income increased 32% we are extremely pleased with our 2013 performance which I believe nicely positions us for our future growth.
As you might recall on November 2012 we announced the three year growth plan with specific financial and operational goals to be achieved by the end of 2015.
As a reminder those goals were to realize product sales and excess of $500 million to have at least three marketed revenue generating products and to achieve a three year net income CAGR that is from 2012 to 2015 in excess of 15%.
We are attracting towards the achievement of these goals and our two most recent acquisitions are contributing to that progress.
In August of last year we closed on the acquisition of our RSDL a personal chemical decontamination product that is used by the military to protect its personnel.
This acquisition expanded our footprint in the biodefense market and leveraged several of our core competencies.
RSDL was accretive in 2013 contributing to both revenue and net income.
In December we announced the proposed acquisition of Cangene Corporation which we closed just two weeks ago.
With this acquisition we now have a combined portfolio of five biodefense products addressing a broad array of biological and chemical threats want to better meet the needs of our government customers.
Additionally we now offer four marketed hospital based specialty therapeutic products that address infectious disease hematology and transplantation.
Moreover the acquisition expanded our core manufacturing capabilities with a revenue generating contract manufacturing organization with finished capabilities.
We look to complete the integration in 2014 and we anticipate that the Cangene operation will significantly contribute to our revenues and will be accretive.
The 2014 we are reaffirming our full year total revenue forecast of $415 million to $445 million with net income of between $30 million to $40 million.
For the first quarter of 2014 we anticipate total revenues of between $45 million to $55 million.
Our 2014 operational goals include completing the integrating of Cangene completing Building 55 comparability and non-clinical work to enable submission of our sBLA in the first half of 2015 securing a partner for otlertuzumab and other products based on our adopt ADAPTIR platform technology and completing additional strategic acquisitions that levers our core competencies and align with our growth plan.
Finally I would like to take moments to note that 2013 marked the 15th anniversary of the company’s founding.
When Emergent began in 1998 we started with the single site producing a single product for a single customer.
Over the subsequent 15 years we have built Emergent into a multi-national company focused on biodefense and commercial markets.
We now have a portfolio of 9 revenue generating products supported by significant manufacturing infrastructure as well as domestic and international sales and marketing operations.
The product development expertise we have gained through multiple value enhancing acquisition drives our pipeline for future products and platform technologies.
These significant achievements are the results of the dedication and hard work of our employees our management team and our board of directors.
It is because of their efforts and the commitment of our customers partners and stockholders that we are positioned to continue this history of great growth going forward.
In summary 2013 was a year in which we significantly advanced the company and we look forward to continuing to build on that momentum in 2014.
That concludes my prepared comments and I will now turn it over to Adam Havey who will provide an update on BioDefense division.
Adam? Thank you Dan.
2013 represented another strong and protective year for the BioDefense division.
Key areas of focus for the division included delivering BioThrax doses to the SNS expanding capacity through Building 55 and integrating RSDL and its associated operations and preparing for the integration of 3 additional BioDefense countermeasures from Cangene; and let me touch on each.
First BioThrax 2013 proved to be another solid year of performance.
We distributed approximately 9 million doses or $244 million worth of product to the SNS under our current 5 year $1.25 billion contract with the CDC.
We’re currently on track with our commitments under this contract which provides for deliveries through September of 2016.
We also secured marketing authorization for BioThrax in Germany a key step in our plan to expand the customer base for BioThrax.
Following this approval we initiated the mutual recognition process within EU for standard international registrations of BioThrax.
In 2014 we expect to continue to meet our delivery commitments to the CDC further expand our reach internationally by continuing the mutual recognition licensure process in Europe and completing the license submission to the FDA for our post exposure prophylaxis or PEP indication.
The PEP label expansion directly addresses the requirements of the U.S.
government.
And more importantly enhancements to BioThrax further submitted as drug gold standard for protection against anthrax disease.
Second progress on the capacity expansion for BioThrax in Building 55.
In the last few months we made significant progress with the FDA on the process in protein profile comparability requirements.
The next step is to initiate the manufacture of our consistency lots which will occur in the near future.
Following the completion of these lots we will initiate the pivotal non-clinical studies during the second half of this year.
We remain on track to file the sBLA submission for Building 55 in the first half of 2015.
Third RSDL: We completed on schedule and on budget the integration of RSDL and its associated operations which resulted in RSDL contributing over $11 million of product sales in 2013 despite only being in our hands for five months.
And this performance exceeded our sales forecast.
In 2014 we will be focused on growing RSDL sales through continued deliveries under the existing DoD IDIQ contract as well as ongoing sales to Foreign Ministries of Defense made of global first responders.
In addition we will be pursuing targeted product expansions including the decontamination or removal of toxic and industrial chemicals and pesticides.
Lastly the addition of the three BioDefense counter measures resulting from Cangene acquisition AIG BAT and VIG are all procured under a long-term contract with U.S.
government for inclusion in the SNS.
In Cangene’s fiscal 2013 these three products generated approximately $50 million in revenue.
In 2014 we look to drive incremental growth in sales of these products as we begin to leverage our combined capabilities.
We look to deliver under existing domestic contracts while at the same time beginning to drive incremental foreign sales where these products currently have a limited international footprint.
And looking at the BioDefense division as a whole we now offer a suite of 5 medical counter measure including vaccine therapeutics and devices addressing multiple CDR anthrax serving needs of governments and others worldwide.
And in 2014 we will be focused on growing our customer base through leveraging our expanded product offering and commercial capabilities.
For example we will explore using alternative selling strategies including portfolio sales and cross-selling which we believe can be successful in this marketplace.
Finally in building on this concept of a BioDefense suite of products in 2014 we will be focused on expanding and further diversifying our footprint across the CBRN landscape through selective acquisitions.
Our targets will continue to be revenue generating products with appeal to U.S.
and foreign governments products that have potential dual use across both government and commercial settings and product candidates that have existing USG development funding.
In summary 2013 was a significant year of execution and expansion for the division and 2014 promises to be the year that we will build on that expansion.
That concludes my prepared comments.
And I’ll now turn it over to Barry who will provide an update on the BioSciences Division.
Barry? Thanks Adam.
2013 was the beginning of our transition towards building a BioSciences Division in our growing profitable specialty biopharmaceutical business.
We focused our investments on the most advanced and promising assets made progress with those assets towards value inflection points and with the Cangene acquisition added a strategically important revenue base and significant new capabilities.
Let’s start with otlertuzumab.
In 2013 we substantially completed the treatment phases into important combination studies in CLL.
Preliminary results for these two studies were reported at ASH in December.
The first study is a randomized trial comparing otlertuzumab plus bendamustine versus bendamustine alone in relapse refractory CLL.
In this study the addition of otlertuzumab to bendamustine more than doubled the IWCLL overall response rate from 32% to 69%.
Likewise complete responses increased from 3% to 14%.
This represents clear demonstration of clinical proof-of-concept for otlertuzumab.
The study is still ongoing as patients will be followed for 18 months to evaluate duration of response progression-free survival and overall survival.
At ASH preliminary data were presented showing the suggestion for improved overall survival although data were fairly immature.
In the coming months maturing data will become available to provide new information regarding overall survival and importantly progression-free survival which would be the primary endpoint in any Phase 3 trial.
The second study combined otlertuzumab with Rituximab in a single-arm trial in frontline CLL patients.
And the data reported at ASH suggest that otlertuzumab and Rituximab could service two components of reflective treatment regiments for CLL.
In both studies otlertuzumab did not appear to add clinically significant toxicity to either Bendamustine all Rituximab which is an important finding supporting the potential for otlertuzumab in various combinations.
So where do we go from here? We believe that the data generated with otlertuzumab last year support advancement to Phase 3.
However as we have announced previously we do not plan to initiate Phase 2 trials until we secure partnership.
We have been in active discussions with potential partners there continues to be interest in the program and clear agreement that we have a novel agent that is active and well tolerated.
The challenge is that the competitive landscape is becoming increasingly crowded with the recent and upcoming approvals of several new drugs in CLL particularly ibrutinib idelalisib and otlertuzumab.
These agents represent a major step forward in CLL treatment which is greatness for patients.
However they complicate our ability to find a common vision with potential partners regarding the role of otlertuzumab in these evolving markets.
We believe that there will continue to be unmet need in CLL.
The new oral kinase inhibitors offer high response rates but very few complete responses and most patients will likely require chronic treatment to maintain responses.
Chronic treatment has significant cost implications as well as the potential for toxicity and resistance.
So combination therapies that are well tolerated and offer the possibility of sustained readmissions of treatment will be in demand.
Otlertuzumab is well positioned to be a part of such regiments.
So we continue to engage in discussions with potential partners with the intent to advance the Phase 3 once we reach agreement.
In the meantime we’ll continue to generate important new data from ongoing studies but we’ve significantly reduced expenditures on this program in advance of the partnership.
We’re also making good progress in validating the bi-specific ADAPTIR platform.
Our current focus is on redirected T-cell cytotoxicity using a novel anti-CD 3 approach to mobilize T-cell mediated immunity against validated tumor targets.
ES414 is our first example of this targeting CD3 and PSMA which is widely expressed in prostate cancer.
There have been other similar RTCC approaches in the clinic which provides some clinical validation.
We believe our technology offers significant differentiation based upon potency dosing convenience and most importantly safety.
Many of these improvements are likely to declare themselves early in development specifically Phase 1 which will help generate early interest from potential partners.
Based upon positive preclinical data and a successful pre-IMD meeting with FDA we are on track to initiate a Phase 1 trial with ES414 later in 2014.
For the Biosciences division the acquisition of Cangene is transformative.
The biosciences’ component of Cangene revenues which were $77 million during their last fiscal year will help progress the division towards profitability.
In addition we have added significant new capabilities.
The specialty commercial infrastructure that’s in place to support products like WinRho episil and HepaGam B provide an opportunity to add additional products with less incremental commercial cost.
The fill/finish facility in Baltimore provides growing revenue as well as the opportunity to move our own products from contract manufacturers to our own facilities.
So this transaction provides an important revenue base now and it enables further revenue growth in the future.
Since the announcement of the deal our focus has largely been on planning for the integration which is in implementation mode as we speak.
The culture and values of the two companies have a lot in common and the leadership and employee base is very talented.
So far the integration is going smoothly.
Having close with deal we're now able to dive deeper into the marketing plans for the commercial products.
These products are quite mature so we expect the revenue to be relatively stable.
However we're optimistic that we will be able to generate some incremental growth through pricing and other commercialization strategies for certain products.
We’ll be able to provide more color on these plans in the coming months.
Additionally we are now able to focus on a review and prioritization of the development portfolio for the combined company.
We intent to evaluate these programs with an eye towards generating revenue growth as soon as possible while optimizing our net R&amp;D spending again more to come on the outcomes of this process.
In summary 2013 was the start of our strategy to transform a BioSciences Division from a pure R&amp;D organization to a fully integrated and profitable biopharmaceutical business targeting medical needs in specialty markets.
With the acquisition of Cangene we’ve added a stable revenue base as well as capabilities and opportunities to drive revenue growth in the near-term.
We remain excited about a number of our development program and we continue to advance them towards value inflection point.
Simultaneously we are carefully managing our R&amp;D spending and working towards partnership.
We look forward to continued progress in 2014.
I’ll now turn it over to Bob who will take you through our financials in more detail.
Bob? Thank you Barry and good afternoon everyone.
I’d first like to make some general comments about our consolidated performance for 2013 compared to prior year and then turn to some highlights of our two operating divisions and then finish up with some details related to our 2014 forecast.
For 2013 total revenue was $313 million up 11% from prior year of $282 million due to higher BioThrax sales and the addition of the RSDL sales.
Our gross profit on product sales was $196 million which translates into a gross margin of 76% continuing our historical trend of between 70% and 80%.
At the operating income line we generated a profit of $43 million or 14% of total revenue this exceeded the prior year by $13 million due in part to the $9.6 million charge we recorded in 2012 related to the write down of our SBI-087 asset.
Gross research and development expense was slightly lower year-over-year due mainly to reduced BioDefense development spending.
SG&amp;A was higher year-over-year by $12 million due to a combination of items including $2.8 million in costs related to restructuring of our UK operations $3.8 million in transaction related costs associated with the acquisitions of HPPD and Cangene and $1.6 million of covered well to RSDL sales.
Excluding these costs SG&amp;A in 2013 increased by $3.7 million or 5%.
GAAP net income was $31.1 million squirreling the middle of the range we communicated in early January and higher than the 2012 net income of $23.5 million by nearly $8 million or 32% higher.
Non GAAP net income for 2013 came in at $36.2 million compared to $30.2 million for 2012.
A table reconciling GAAP to non-GAAP net income is included in our press release today.
Going forward we will continue to report non-GAAP net income in addition to GAAP net income in order to more appropriately reflect the financial performance of our core business.
Note that for 2013 our effective tax rate was at 30% which reflects the impact of tax credits associated with research and development activities incurred throughout the year.
At yearend our balance sheet continued to reflect a very strong capital position.
On the asset side our combined cash and accounts receivables totaled $240 million essentially flat with the level in 2012.
On the liability side we entered into a senior secured credit agreement in December of 2013 which included a $100 million revolving credit facility with the syndicated banks.
In connection with this agreement we borrowed $62 million to repay existing debt obligations.
In January of this year we completed a $250 million convertible debt offering the proceeds of which we used to finance the Cangene acquisition and repaid the $62 million debt obligation.
At the division level the BioDefense unit had another solid year performance led by BioThrax sales of $247 million an increase of $31 million over 2012.
In 2013 we also delivered approximately 9 million doses of BioThrax.
2013 product sales for BioDefense also included $11 million in RSDL sales.
In addition the BioDefense division recognized approximately $54 million in grants in contract revenue.
For the Biosciences division in 2013 we included the investment of over $51 million in research and development up $6 million from 2012 primarily driven by an increase in investment in the clinical development of otlertuzumab partially offset by reduced spending in the TD program which we discontinued in early 2013.
We are reaffirming our 2014 forecast for total revenues of between $415 million and $445 million which represents year-over-year growth of between 33% and 42%.
We are also reaffirming our guidance for 2014 net income of between $30 million and $40 million on a GAAP basis.
Importantly included in the GAAP net income forecast for 2014 are certain non-recurring non-core costs including transaction and integration cost related to the Cangene acquisition.
For the first quarter of 2014 we’re forecasting total revenues of between $45 million and $55 million.
The strong financial performance we experienced in 2013 combined with our expectations for 2014 have some good shape to achieve the year end 2015 financial and operational goals outlined in the growth plan and commented upon by Dan earlier.
That concludes my comments I will now turn the call over to the operator so that we can begin the question-and-answer portion of the call.
Operator please proceed.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Cory Kasimov with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hey good afternoon guys thank you for taking the questions.
My first one is on BioThrax in your OUS strategy.
I guess I’m wondering that with multiple approvals outside of the U.S.
and mutual recognition process underway when might you decide to start selling in a meaningful ways to those countries.
Are you waiting to see if the U.S.
government buys all 25 million annual doses you expect to manufacture building 55 to determine if it makes sense to build up the second train there or would you consider using your existing pilot facility to generate some excess supply if necessary I’m just wondering kind of what the plans are there it just seems like it’s a pretty meaningful opportunity? Yes thanks for joining the call today really appreciate and appreciate the question.
So international markets clearly an upside opportunity for us.
As you know all these years we’ve been capacity constraint and so your question is getting more and more time and as we progress towards building 55 license.
I will ask to Adam to talk about some of our thinking around international markets because we are as I said moving towards approval of 55 this clearly an entry staff there and we are developing our international sales strategy.
So [if affect us] it’s something that’s a work in progress.
But Adam maybe you could add some color.
Sure.
Thanks Cory.
I think two points to make on top what Dan mentioned obviously we're landing the ground work with these approvals and the mutual recognition process to enable that market but as you know right now all of our capacity is really all practical capacity is sold to the U.S.
government.
So from a timing perspective I think it will see international sales begin to be more meaningful I think once 55 is approved.
And as you mentioned if demand in ex-U.S.
or outside U.S.
government exceeds the 25 million doses we’ve got the ability to ramp up that facility with an additional training.
So I think in the next year and a half we are going to see the with an additional train.
So I think in the next year an a half we are going to solidify the approvals in those other countries and with that in parallel with that solidify the sales and marketing strategy and approach.
I think one other thing to mention on top of that is with both the Cangene acquisition and adding that commercial infrastructure on the Biosciences side as well as the RSDL acquisitions we are able to gain a strong international sales team and channel because RSDL has already sold them to over 30 countries.
So when combining that capability with our regulatory strategy and we hope that will pay off in the future.
Okay.
And I think the other thing I would add there is the use of building 12 is it is a very valuable production facility with FDA license.
We are complying organization and operation there.
So we will need to figure out what the best utilization is going to be keeping in mind that the U.S.
government we have to talk to them about that there could be a need for pack up redundancy there and the question is how do they want to see that being utilized.
So I think there is some discussions that we need to have with the government before making some final decisions about the migration from building 12 and what its future use might be.
And lastly with respect to your specific comment about building out a second train I think it’s pretty clear that the U.S.
government takes the entire capacity of the first train then there is a financial rationale for installing the second train in order to address what might be going worldwide market.
Okay that is helpful.
And then a couple of housekeeping questions regarding the Cangene acquisition.
I saw yesterday afternoon BioDale announced full finished agreement with you.
How material are these types of deals for you and should we expect more agreements like this in the future? And then are you able to use any of Cangene’s net operating losses going forward to lower your tax rate? So on the first I will ask Barry as you know the CMO operation is part of the BioSciences division we were very excited about that core competency coming into the division and the revenue that it brings and the growth potential that it brings.
And then I think on the NOLs I’ll ask Bob to pick that one up.
But Barry may be you can talk about that particular contract and what that might mean.
Sure.
Yes Cory we’re very happy to see the Biodel deal announced yesterday.
That’s been a deal that our Cangene colleagues have been working on for quite some time.
That’s one of the many customers that will have in that plant generating revenue.
That particular deal has a nice long-term flavor to it.
So it’s very reliable in and of itself it’s one piece of a much larger pie.
So there is a very nice stable growing revenue stream in that Baltimore facility from contract manufacturing for Fill &amp; Finish.
So Cory on the net operating losses for Cangene I guess first of all a lot of those are kind of captured in Canada and we’re looking at our at amending some tax structures and strategies to make our structure a bit more efficient.
It’s going to take some time.
I wouldn’t expect us to be able to utilize those NOLs anytime in the next year or so but we obviously are looking at putting in place a more efficient tax structure.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Eric Schmidt with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First just Bob on the move toward non-GAAP financial accounting can you provide guidance for 2014 as to what are the numbers what kind of magnitude of additional non-GAAP removed expenses we’ll see?  Yes sure thanks for the question and for joining.
Yes I think we are going to be in a position Eric to do that later this year.
We’re sticking with the 30 million to 40 million in GAAP net income guidance for right now.
Clearly as we experienced in 2013 we’re going to have some transaction cost related to acquisition activities that we know about today and potentially future ones that we will be making adjustments for on a non-GAAP basis.
And when those are incurred we will be providing that detail to you when we report actual results going forward.
Okay.
I mean I think I have kind of cited you on the conservatism of the 2015 EPS targets before the 15% annual growth; it only kind of gets you to about $1 per share in earnings in 2015 and you are tracking on a GAAP basis despite all these merger related expenses to do around that level this year.
When is the good time to update that guidance?  Yes I mean I’ll take that one Eric.
So as you know when we put out the three year plan the grounding for that trajectory was really built around our historic growth both on revenue and net income over the last 10 years or so.
So we are now working on an updated plan going beyond that ‘15 period.
So I think as we develop that plan and we identify what we believe are reasonable targets for the organization going forward we’ll be in a position to update it.
But I wouldn’t expect anything this year.
Okay.
One last one just on the progress report you gave in terms of Building 55 and a comparability profile discussions you’ve had with the FDA what can you tell us sort of maybe more granular that might increase our confidence that you are going to hit the specs in these consistency lots and be on track to file in 2015? Sure Eric this is Adam.
I’ll just jump right in.
So as I mentioned in my comments we’ve done a lot of work with the FDA really in the fourth quarter and actually had a formal meeting with them in December where we talked about those comparability and protein profile requirements.
And as a result of that discussion they asked us to submit a data package in January which we did and we're really waiting to hear back from them we should hear back from them very soon.
And as soon as we do hear that we’ll go into those consistency lot manufacturers into that step of manufacturing those consistency lots.
So we have a lot of confidence in the data package.
The dialogue was very collaborative and we’ve got some great feedback.
And we're excited about taking the next step.
So you will be hearing more about that soon.
So Adam it’s something that…  I’d add some color to that a little bit the data package [enjoyed] the profile that we’ve presented to the FDA is based on significant number of runs being conducted in the facilities.
So this is on the basis of a couple of runs and we're throwing a dart at the dartboard.
This is really based on well understood process DOE circle back several years so we understand the entire design space.
And the process is very manageable so that we as we migrate various inputs we understand exactly what the outputs might look like.
So from our standpoint we could be may be adding and provide color on the exact number of runs but it’s many many runs that had enabled us to really come up with some specifications that we believe are reproducible and achievable and that’s the bases on which we presented that package to the FDA.
Adam do you have any thoughts in terms of….
Eric let me just add some details.
We have done more than 60 full scale runs over the years and that’s been part of our ongoing development contract with BARDA.
And as I stated earlier I think we are really confident in what the process is we are just refining some of those protein profile characteristics.
Great.
Thanks for the update and congrats on the progress.
Thanks for your support really appreciate it.
(Operator Instructions).
We have no further questions.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Thanks you Denise.
Ladies and gentlemen that's all the time we have today.
And thank you for your participation.
Please note that today's call has been recorded and a replay will be available beginning later today.
Alternatively there is available a webcast for today's call an archived version of which will be available later today accessible through the Company's website.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Goodbye.
This concludes today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2014 Emergent BioSolutions Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ben and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I'd like to hand over to the company.
Please proceed.
Thank you Ben.
Good afternoon everyone.
My name is Bob Burrows I'm Vice President of Investor Relations for Emergent.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss our financial results for Q1 2014.
As this customary our call today is open to all participants.
And in addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi President and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Havey Executive Vice President and President of our BioDefense Division; Barry Labinger Executive Vice President and President of our Biosciences Division; and Bob Kramer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following prepared comments we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Before we begin I am compelled to remind everyone that during today's call and our prepared comments management may make projections and other forward-looking statements related to our business future events our prospects or future performance.
We may also make forward-looking statements during the Q&amp;A session.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on our existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve potential risks and uncertainties.
You are encouraged to review Emergent's filings with the SEC on forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
These and other risk factors further described in the risk factor section of Emergent's most recent company's report on form 10-Q filed with the SEC.
We will also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures that involve adjustments to GAAP reviews.
In order to provide greater transparency regarding Emergent's operating performance please refer to the table which can be found in today's press release regarding our use of non-GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation between our non-GAAP financial measures and GAAP financial measures.
For the benefit of those who maybe listening to the replay of webcast this call was held and recorded on May 8 2014 since then Emergent may have made announcements relating topics discussed during today call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
And with that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions' President and CEO.
Dan? Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call today.
For my prepared comments I will review the first quarter financial results and year-to-date operational accomplishments for 2014.
I will then ask Adam Havey to provide an update on our BioDefense division followed by Barry Labinger who will talk about our Biosciences division.
And finally Bob Kramer will finish with the discussion of our financial performance.
For the first quarter of 2014 total revenue was $53.9 million as compared to $43.1 million in 2013 an increase of 25%.
This was towards the upper end of the guidance we previously provided at $45 million to $55 million.
Our net loss during the first quarter was $20.2 million compared to $8.1 million during the same period in 2013.
Our adjusted net loss for the first quarter was $14.6 million as compared to $6.7 million in 2013.
We are reaffirming our 2014 total revenue guidance of $415 million to $445 million and reaffirming our 2014 GAAP net income guidance of $30 million to $40 million.
In addition we are providing guidance for 2014 adjusted net income between $40 million to $50 million.
Bob will provide greater detail on specificity around our financial performance and the guidance in his prepared remarks.
Operationally during the first quarter we advanced both our BioDefense and Biosciences businesses.
In our BioDefense division we finalized with FDA the past forward for license share of Building 55 and commence the manufacture of BioThrax consistency lots.
We also secured orphan drug designation for BioThrax for PEP indication.
Further we expanded the approved sales abuse for RSDL to include pesticide related chemicals and advance our AIG product towards the filing of the BLA this summer with the expected approval early next year.
Finally we continued to advance our clinical programs under funding from BARDA.
As a final point following the announcement of our Cangene acquisition we have seen increased interest from domestic and international customers and our expended suite of BioThrax products.
This is consistent with the one of strategic goals of the acquisition and we're pleased by this early progress.
Adam will discuss these developments and provide an update on business operations in greater detail in a moment.
In our Biosciences division we completed the Cangene acquisition and integration is progressing well.
We also finished our portfolio assessment and have a selected IXinity as a promising opportunity.
IXinity which came with the Cangene acquisition is a recombinant Factor IX product for the treatment of hemophilia B.
The FDA is presently reviewing the BLA for IXinity with PDUFA date of July 29.
If the regulatory process remains on track we anticipate the product could be launched later this year.
Barry will discuss this and other developments in greater details during his prepared remarks.
So overall we had a productive start to the year and as a reminder our 2014 operational goals continue to be completing the integration of Cangene advancing Building 55 comparability and non clinical work to enable submission of our sBLA in the first half of 2015 securing partners to products based on our ADAPTIR platform technology and completing an additional strategic acquisition that leverages our core competencies and aligns with our growth plan.
That concludes my prepared comments and I'll now turn it over to Adam Havey who will provide an update on the BioDefense division.
Adam? Thank you Dan.
In the first quarter of 2014 and so far this quarter the BioDefense division.
has focused on our core BioThrax business expanding RSDL sales and integration of our three newest products AIG BAT and VIG.
These types of products represent our current BioDefense portfolio.
Let me give you on update on this portfolio in our BioDefense business.
Starting with BioThrax this quarter we continued to deliver doses to the Strategic National Stockpile under our current five year $1.25 billion contract with the CDC.
In April we announced the successful completion of our non-interference study the results of which will be used to support a supplemental BLA filing for BioThrax used as a post exposure total access for anthrax disease.
We are targeting to submit this sBLA in the fourth quarter of this year.
In April we also received orphan drug designation by the FDA for the PEP indication for BioThrax.
Orphan drug status has several advantages including up to seven years of market exclusivity and waving the sBLA regulatory filing fee.
Next I'd like to give you an update on our large scale BioThrax manufacturing facility Building 55.
In April we announced that the FDA and Emergent had finalized our comparability protocols enabling us to foresee with the manufacturing of consistency lots.
The next step is to initiate a final non-clinical study in the third quarter of this year as we continue to work towards our first half 2013 sBLA filing.
Moving on to RSDL our product for the removal or neutralization of chemical agents consistent with our earlier announced plan we recently extended the field of use for this product to include many pesticide related chemicals.
This expansion was based on organophosphate studies conducted by our research scientist.
Many of our domestic first responders and international notary customers see enhanced value in a product to pretext against not only classic chemical warfare agents but also pesticide related chemicals.
As a result we are excited about the prospect of increased demand for RSDL from existing and potential new customers.
With the acquisition of Cangene three additional BioDefense countermeasures were added to our portfolio.
This includes VIG BAT and AIG.
All of which met their first quarter sales targets.
While all three of these products play a key role in the BioDefense division most of the activities this past quarter has been with AIG.
We continue to work actively towards filing our BLA for AIG this summer with expected approval in early 2015.
These efforts are fully funded under our BARDA contract valued at up $161 million.
Approval will trigger our payment of approximately $7 million and will enhance our ability to drive international sales.
Our newest AIG contract with BARDA provides $63 million for AIG product procurement.
We have made progress in costing plasma for the manufacture of AIG and are on target for the first delivery to BARDA which is scheduled to take place in the second quarter of this year in accordance with our first contractual milestone.
Next I'd like to provide an update on our U.S.
government contract and grants.
For BioThrax our recombinant rPA based anthrax vaccine candidate we received a positive in process review and in April part to exercise the next option year of the contract which has allowed us to continue the rPA vaccine development work.
Our other contracts with BARDA and NIAID are ongoing and we continue to purse new opportunities as they become available.
Following our acquisition of RSDL and Cangene we have seen an increase level of interest from international governments and other customers in our expanded portfolio of medical countermeasures.
We are actively pursuing these opportunities and anticipating - and anticipate achieving measured progress over the course of the coming year.
That concludes my prepared comments.
And I'll now turn it over to Barry who will provide you an update on the Biosciences division.
Barry? Thanks Adam.
As you know our acquisition of Cangene closed in the middle of the first quarter.
And we have successfully completed the first phase of integration.
First and foremost we've maintained business continuity with Cangene employees seamlessly transferring to Emergent systems and all of the business relationships required for the manufacture and sale of the marketed products transferring as necessary.
In short it's been business as usual with respect to production and revenue generation.
In our first partial quarter the business we acquired from Cangene performed as expected financially.
Revenue was on plan for the commercial products and will finish CMO businesses.
We are on track to deliver upon the financial targets we set when we announced the deal in December specifically 2014 pretax profit contribution of 4% to 6% on sales of at least $100 million for the 10 months coast close.
We made good progress towards achieving the initial synergies implied in those targets and we are on track for further expansion of operating margins in future years to at least 15% beginning in 2015.
We have identified savings in SG&amp;A identified some operational efficiencies and manufacturing and we have reduced spending on certain R&amp;D programs.
Let me comment a little bit more on Biosciences R&amp;D.
We've completed our preliminary assessment of the R&amp;D portfolio across the combined Biosciences business.
As a result we have halted investment in certain programs in the Cangene pipeline most notably the development of our recombinant human growth hormone candidate which will seek to out license.
We've also revised the Otlertuzumab development program putting on hold some plant Phase 2 studies unless and until we enter into a partnership.
We'll continue to follow patients in ongoing Otlertuzumab clinical trials and continue ongoing discussions with potential partners.
We have also confirmed our plan to advance ES414 our ADAPTIR bispecific for metastatic prostrate cancer into a Phase 1 trial by the end of this year.
Finally we've advanced our plans to prepare for the potential launch of IXinity a proprietary recombinant coagulation Factor IX product candidate which was acquired as a part of the Cangene acquisition and is under review currently by the FDA.
Cangene license IXinity after first test review of the BLA which resulted in a complete response whether due to antibodies the wholesale proteins in clinical trial subjects.
Cangene refined the manufacturing process to eliminate wholesale protein and further response to the CLL this past January.
The FDA accepted the submission and assigned an action date of July 29th.
Factor IX is used for the control and prevention of bleeds in patients with hemophilia B the second most common form of hemophilia.
There are about 4 000 patients with hemophilia B in the U.S.
and the U.S.
market for Factor IX is about $400 million.
The market's been dominated for many years by Benefix from Pfizer which was the only recombinant Factor IX on the market.
In recent weeks Biogen Idec launched Alprolix the first of the longer-acting Factor IX products which can be dosed once every seven to ten days compared to twice weekly for the shorter-acting factors.
We believe that long-acting Factor IX products represent an advance for certain patients and may even capture the majority of the market overtime.
However significant segments for the market are good candidates to continue to receive short-acting Factor IX to which they're very accustomed.
For example many adolescence and young adults with hemophilia B lived active lives and could benefit from the flexibility of maximizing the factor levels when they most needed rather than sticking to a strict schedule of infrequent infusions of long-acting factor.
For these and other reasons the short-acting Factor IX products will continue to occupy a place in the treatment of hemophilia B.
We believe that IXinity will compete effectively in this short acting segment of the Factor IX market with a clinical profile at least as favorable as it competitors specifically Benefix and Rixubis which was launched late last year by Baxter.
So we are planning for the potential launch of IXinity in the U.S.
later this year assuming we receive FDA approval.
We recognize that this market is increasingly competitive given that most of the development cost though have already be incurred there is a near term opportunity for revenue growth and earnings growth even with modest market penetration.
Importantly this product fits nicely into the commercial infrastructure we acquired with the Cangene deal.
So our next steps will be to secure marketing authorization generate more supplies and complete the commercial plans for a potential launch later this year.
We'll finalize those plans over the coming months and you'll hear more about this as we progress.
With that I'll turn it over to Bob Kramer who will take you through our financials in more detail.
Bob? Thanks Barry and good afternoon everyone.
I'd first like to make some general comments about our consolidated performance for the first quarter of 2014 compared to prior year and then turn to some highlights of our two operating divisions and wrap up with some details related to our 2014 guidance.
For Q1 of 2014 total revenue was $53.9 million up $10.8 million or 25% from prior year of $43.1 million.
The increase is due to the revenue associated with the two acquisitions RSDL and Cangene partially offset by lower BioThrax sales.
The total revenues for the period were as expected as our brand of the guidance range we provided.
Our gross profit on product sales and contract manufacturing was $19.5 million which resulted in the gross margin of 51%.
This is lower than our historical margin of 70% to 80% on product revenue and primarily reflects the impact of three factors.
First the timing of BioThrax shipments second the timing of the annual maintenance shutdown of our Baltimore contract manufacturing facility during the month of March.
And finally the addition of RSDL and Cangene products to our sales mix which operates at a lower gross margin.
Variations in the timing of the BioThrax shipments and the annual maintenance shutdown of the CMO facility are normal course of business factored into our annual guidance.
The gross margins associated with RSDL and the Cangene products and our CMO business which are lower than those we have enjoyed BioThrax are now part of our ongoing business.
Over time as we continue to execute on our integration of the Cangene business and work to extract improvements and contribution from substantially more diversified product and service revenue mix we will expect to improve the blended gross margin above what we experienced during the most recent period.
Total R&amp;D spend for the quarter was $30.3 million flat versus prior year as a reduction in the spending for Otlertuzumab was offset by increased investment in ES414 and the Factor IX program mentioned earlier.
SG&amp;A was higher year-over-year by $10 million due primarily to $4.2 million in transaction and integrated related cost associated with the acquisition of Cangene and $4 million in SG&amp;A cost incurred by the newly acquired Cangene and HPPD operations as compared to last year.
GAAP net loss was $20.2 million versus an $8.1 million loss in the same period of 2013 taking into account approximately $8 million of non-recurring acquisition related and financing costs and non-cash amortization charges our adjusted net loss for the first quarter came in it at $14.6 million compared to a $6.7 million loss in 2013.
A table reconciling GAAP net income to adjusted net income is included in the press release today.
Going forward we will continue to report adjusted net income in addition to GAAP net income in order to more appropriately reflect the financial performance of our core business.
As experienced in prior years our first quarter financial results typically result in a loss due to delivery schedules for our products and the timing for annual maintenance shutdown activities for our facilities.
Historically this full start has been reversed in Q2 and Q3 we expect the same trend to occur in 2014 separate revenue and profit contribution growth throughout the remainder of 2014 put us in good shape to achieve our near and longer term financial lows.
Let me turn now to a couple of comments regarding our balance sheet.
A quarter end our balance sheet continue to reflect a very strong capital position highlighted by our combined cash and accounts receivable balance of $223 million.
In January we completed a $250 million convertible debt offering the proceeds of which we used to finance the Cangene acquisition and repay $62 million of debt obligation previously on our books.
Recurring cost associated with this financing reflected in higher interest expense which will continue to serve us over the term of the convertible notes.
At the division level the BioDefense unit whose portfolio now consists of five medical countermeasures addressing CBRN anthrax generated revenues for the period of $47.5 million.
This included better than expected sales of RSDL of $7.5 million as well as initial sales from the Cangene BioDefense contracts beginning February 21st 2014.
Also contributing to the BioDefense revenue is approximately $15.4 million in grants and contracts.
For the Bioscience division Q1 2014 reflected $6.4 million of product sales as well as contract manufacturing and related service revenues the first such revenues for this division following completion of the Cangene acquisition earlier this year.
Turning to guidance we're reaffirming our 2014 guidance for total revenues between $415 million and $445 million which represents a year-over-year growth between 33% and 42%.
We're also reaffirming our guidance for 2014 net income between $30 million and $40 million on a GAAP basis.
In addition and taking into account the expected impact of certain non-recurring non-core costs including transaction and integration cost as well as non-cash amortization charges we're introducing a forecast of 2014 adjusted net income of between $40 million and $50 million.
And finally for Q2 we're forecasting total revenues between $95 million and $110 million.
That concludes my comments.
I'll now turn the call over to the operator so that we can began the question and answer portion of the call.
Operator? Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) The first question we have comes from the line of Cory Kasimov from JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi this is actually Britney on for Cory today.
Thank you for taking my questions.
So first can you provide your thoughts on what government contracts would look like after Building 55 approval? And also can you provide an update on your partnership discussions with TRU-016? Thank you.
Yeah.
Thanks Britney for joining the call and thank you for your question.
So in terms of the Building 55 contract our expectation is that those discussions with the government will likely take place and start beginning later part of this year as we get closer to the point in time where we're preparing to submit to the - our sBLA to the FDA.
So probably a year it will probably little bit less than but 9 to 12 months away from beginning those discussion.
So too early to tell exactly how that's going to work.
We have some hypothesis that we've developed in terms of how the government might want to feather in Building 55 deliveries in conjunction with Building 12 but those are simple hypothesis that we're going to need to bet with the government in order to better determine what their needs are and how that - their need can be coordinated with our facilities.
And on the second question let's go to respective department Barry do you want to take that one.
Sure.
So we do continue to have discussions ongoing with potential partners for Otlertuzumab.
We haven't landed a deal yet as you know either heard about it.
We get a pretty consistent theme from those who look at this program that Otlertuzumab is naval anti-cancer agent with clear clinical proof of concept demonstrated based on our randomized Phase 2 trials.
And a very favorable safety profile which boards well for it's ability to combine with other agents which really is the future for coming up with sustained remissions in CLL.
Where most partners have hesitated is around the uncertainty of the commercial opportunity as you may know that CLL competitive landscape is really under significant change right now with recent launches as new agents.
Particularly the small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors that do offer high response rates but they require chronic treatment.
So we think there is a significant opportunity to provide these sustained remissions without ongoing treatment with drugs that costs $100 000 a year and have the usual safety or resistance risks.
But it's clearly an uncertainty and I think it's been it's caused some real hesitation from potential partners to have clarity around where our drug will fit once the market evolves with the entrance for these new agents.
So a lot of people are on the sidelines waiting to see more data waiting to see how the market evolves and in the meantime we've really managed our spending on this program.
We do have some new data coming out with the existing trials as we follow patience over longer term.
And we'll continue discussions with partners who can see the opportunity as we do.
In the meantime we'll hold off on new trials.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for your question.
The next question comes from the line of Eric Schmidt from Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Maybe for Bob first.
If you could provide what that number was in Q1 for revenues associated with Cangene especially therapeutics so I may missed it.
No we didn't break that out Eric.
We didn't provide.
Let's talk something you're going - that won't be something - maybe you could talk about what type of revenue breakout you're going to be providing on a forward-looking basis? Yeah.
So we will provide BioThrax RSDL and some of the other products that we're not going to continue to report Eric on how Cangene looked like before the acquisition.
So you'll see these product revenue you'll see CMO revenue and you'll see - revenue.
So in terms our product revenue lead BioThrax RSDL and then other line is that right other products? That's correct.
Okay.
In terms of the gross margins they were a little bit lighter than I had expected in the quarter and just kind of wondering if you think we're going to see a rebound with it better seasonality from BioThrax's as soon as the subsequent quarters of 2014.
Yeah.
I think yes as I indicated in the remarks Eric that from following outfit the first quarter is always below watermark for us and the effect that we had lower shipments in Q1 versus last year certainly contributed to the overall lower margin as well as the introduction of the RSDL and the Cangene products with lower margin.
So we expect that the overall blended margin will rebound behind the balance of 2014 and can be where we have same level will be going going forward.
That signal is kind of mid 60s.
We haven't been specific with a range but I think again if you look at the mix particularly the product mix and what we've experienced with BioThrax where we indicated with RSDL as well as the Cangene I think it's pretty you should be able come up with a blended gross margin rate not too far from what you're looking right now.
Okay.
Thanks.
And - Again we have several quarters under our belt with - particularly with the Cangene sales we don't want to bracket it as we have in the past with BioThrax we have years and years of experience.
So as we get more experience under our belt we'll be able to bracket it for you but not right now.
Okay.
And last financial question on the R&amp;D side.
Lot of moving parts with the decreased expenditures on human growth hormone and Otlertuzumab and maybe increasing expenses on ES414.
How do you look at the the sequential quarterly progression in R&amp;D relative to what you put up in first quarter? Again we don't give guidance on what the spend is going to be quarter-by-quarter for any element of the P&amp;L.
I think Barry talked to it and in terms of the more disciplined approach to looking at the R&amp;D programs we've gone through what we've now acquired with Cangene.
Again we will be very careful about what we spend on a net basis the spending actually went down inQ1 versus Q1 2013 when you factored in the BioD spending.
But again as we've indicated our intention is to be more disciplined about R&amp;D look for partnering opportunities and gradually trend that overall net R&amp;D as a percent of revenue down to where our peers are.
Where do you think your peers are? They're on that 15% to 20% range.
Okay.
And then on the launch of IXinity can you talk about what type of editions or costs you're going to need on the sales force side in order to make a go with that? Yes Barry will comment on that.
Yeah so one of the beauties of the hemophilia market is it's highly concentrated.
There are about 4 000 patients in the U.S.
that have this condition.
There are a small number of hemophilia treatment centers which is at sub-set of hospitals and only about 200 of them that that really drive a lot of the treatment decisions.
So it doesn't take a large sales force to cover this audience looking at 15 to 20 people it takes to cover the audience and a good portion of that will come from our existing sales infrastructure that we acquired in the Cangene acquisition.
So it's fairly modest I mean no lunch is free.
But it's a fairly modest addition both on the sales and the marketing side too to get this product introduced.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for your questions Eric.
(Operator Instructions) It appears there are no further questions in the queue.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Bob Burrows for closing remarks.
Thank you Ben.
Ladies and gentlemen that's all the time we had today.
Thank you for you participation.
Please note that today's call has been recorded and a replay will be available beginning later today.
Alternatively there is available webcast for today's call an archived version of which will be available later today accessible through the company's website.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Goodbye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for joining today's conference.
This concludes presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2014 Emergent BioSolutions Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Whitley and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Bob Burrows.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Whitley.
Good afternoon everybody.
Again my name is Bob Burrows I'm Vice President of Investor Relations for Emergent and thank you for joining us today as we discuss our 2Q and six months 2014 financial results.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
And in addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi President and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Havey Executive Vice President and President of our BioDefense Division; Barry Labinger Executive Vice President and President of our Biosciences Division; and Bob Kramer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following the prepared comments we will conduct a Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I am compelled to remind everyone that during today's call and during our prepared comments management may make projections and other forward-looking statements related to our business future events our prospects or future performance.
We may also make forward-looking statements during the Q&amp;A session.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on our existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
You are encouraged to review Emergent's filings with the SEC on forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
These and other risks are further described in the risk factors section of Emergent's most recent quarterly report on form 10-Q filed with the SEC.
We will also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures that involve adjustments to GAAP figures in order to provide greater transparency regarding Emergent's operating performance.
Please refer to the table which can be found in today's press release regarding our use of non-GAAP or adjusted financial measures and the reconciliations between our non-GAAP adjusted financial measures and our GAAP financial measures.
For the benefit of those who maybe listening to the replay of the webcast this call was held and recorded on August 7 2014.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating topics discussed during today call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today’s press release may be found on the investors homepage of our website.
And with that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions' President and CEO.
Dan? Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call today.
For my prepared comments I will briefly review the financial results for the second quarter and first half of this year and then provide an overview of our business operations.
Next I will ask Adam Havey to provide more detail on our BioDefense business followed by Barry Labinger who will present our Biosciences business.
Finally Bob Kramer will conclude with a discussion of our financial performance.
As you may recall during our call in May we provided revenue guidance for the second quarter of between $95 million to $110 million.
As you saw from our press release today actual results were at the top end of that range with total revenue $110.3 million.
Adjusted net income for the second quarter was $9.4 million and on a GAAP basis our net income was $5 million.
During the second quarter which was the first full quarter of combined operations with Cangene we began to realize some of the benefits of our growth strategy.
For the remainder of the year our financial performance will be driven primarily by continued BioThrax sales with significant increase in RSDL revenue over 2013 and anticipated revenues from our remaining biodefense product portfolio both domestically and internationally.
As a result the company is increasing 2014 total revenue guidance to between $425 million and $450 million.
As we announced in our press release we have reaffirmed our net income guidance for the year with a forecast of adjusted net income of between $40 million to $50 million and GAAP net income of between $30 million to $40 million.
Bob Kramer will provide greater detail on specificity around our financial performance and guidance in his prepared remarks.
I would now like to give you an overview of our biodefense operations during the second quarter.
In this division we continued to deliver BioThrax to the SNS under our CDC contract and we manufactured consistency lots for Building 55 which keeps us on track to initiate our pivotal non-critical study in the third quarter.
We also received ISO certification for RSDL manufacturing which is an important milestone for further expanding international sales.
And today we announced that we submitted a BLA for AIG our Anthrax Immune Globulin therapeutic.
Adam will talk about these developments and provide a more detailed update on our biodefense operations in a moment.
In our biosciences business we continue the integration of our Cangene operations and we also continued our efforts to partner products based on the ADAPTIR platform.
Finally we continue to focus on managing unfunded R&amp;D costs.
Barry will give a full update on biosciences division during his prepared remarks.
As we enter the second half of 2014 we hope to maintain momentum in our operations and continue to pursue strategic acquisitions with a focus on revenue generating opportunities for both our biodefense and biosciences businesses.
As you know we have established a highly selective process in order to screen for acquisitions that leverage our core competencies align with our corporate growth plan and satisfy internal metrics.
That concludes my prepared comments and I will now turn it over to Adam who will provide an update on the biodefense division.
Adam? Thanks Dan.
In the second quarter of 2014 the BioDefense division continued to provide specialty products and services that protect civilian and military populations globally against CBRN threats.
Our core areas of focus included delivering BioThrax doses to the strategic national stockpile developing medical countermeasures for the US government delivering RSDL to governments and first responders at home and abroad and penetrating international markets for our three newest products AIG BAT and VIG.
We now operate the division with five revenue generating medical countermeasures in our biodefense portfolio.
As I mentioned last quarter we have had many discussions with foreign governments and are seeing increased interest in our products.
I am pleased to report that we are seeing additional international orders including for the former Cangene biodefense products.
The demand for these products is exceeding our initial expectations and we anticipate this will contribute to our second half growth.
In the second quarter biodefense revenues were a little lower $91 million.
This included $67 million in BioThrax revenue and approximately $22 million in contract and grant revenue.
BioThrax revenue was primarily from sales under our current five-year $1.25 billion contract with the CDC to deliver 44.75 million doses to the strategic national stockpile.
As you know our five biodefense products play key roles in protecting both civilians and military personnel.
We are continually pursuing enhancements to those countermeasures to align with our customers’ needs and priorities.
Let me highlight some of these.
We continue to make progress on our PEP indication for BioThrax and we expect to file the sBLA in Q4 of 2014.
This is a strategic priority for the US government and we believe this will establish BioThrax as the gold standard for both postexposure and prophylactic uses.
We also continue to make progress with AIG.
As we announced today we submitted the BLA to the FDA.
This is a significant milestone for the program and we could not have been – and this could not have been done without the dedication of our whole team.
The employees at our Winnipeg facility have spent many years working on this important method and should be commended for their tireless dedication to making this a success.
Since this contract was awarded by BARDA in 2005 10 000 doses of AIG have been delivered to the US strategic national stockpile and the company will receive a $7 million milestone payment upon FDA approval of the product.
We have also delivered plasma under existing contracts with the US government for both BAT and AIG.
Next I like to talk about RSDL our decontamination lotion product for the neutralization or removal of chemical warfare agents and T2 toxins from the skin.
During our earnings call I mentioned that RSDL now has an expanded field of use to include removal or neutralization of many organophosphate-based pesticides.
I’m also pleased to announce that RSDL received ISO certification which means that it meets the recognized quality requirements for Canada Australia Europe and many other major markets.
ISO certification is a prerequisite for CE Marking of medical devices within European Union and this certification is an important milestone in expanding the market place for RSDL.
Moving on to building 55 our large-scale BioThrax manufacturing facility as we mentioned back in April Emergent and the FDA reached agreement on comparability protocols which has allowed us to manufacture consistency lots for use in a pivotal non-clinical study.
That pivotal study is scheduled to start in the third quarter and the data generated will be used in our sBLA filing.
This study represents the culmination of numerous pilot studies in an extensive collaboration with BARDA and the FDA.
We are pleased with the foundation that has been laid over the past few years and we are excited to initiate the last planned study in the comparability process.
We are targeting a rolling submission of the sBLA to the FDA the first part of which is planned to be submitted in early 2015 and we are planning to submit the data from the pivotal non-clinical study later next year.
That concludes my prepared comments and I will now turn it over to Barry who will provide an update on the biosciences division.
Barry? Thanks Adam and good afternoon everyone.
First let me comment on the status on the Cangene integration since we have now completed our full quarter since the close in late February.
I’m pleased to say that the integration is going very smoothly.
We are now operating as one team in the biosciences division across multiple sites including Winnipeg Baltimore Seattle and Munich.
Our divisional senior leadership team is a strong blend from both Cangene and the pre-acquisition Emergent.
There is still work to be done to completed transition to fully unified systems and operational processes but the business continues to progress as planned.
During the second quarter revenues were split evenly between product sales and contract manufacturing with WinRho and HepaGam B driving the lion’s share of product sales.
Our commercial products are quite mature and we are maintaining relatively stable sales as expected.
Our contract manufacturing business primarily the fill/finish services in our Baltimore site continues to deliver steady growth in revenue.
As you may have seen we received a complete response letter from the FDA last week regarding the BLA submitted for IXinity our recombinant Factor IX treatment for Hemophilia B that was part of the portfolio acquired from Cangene.
The complete response letter requested additional analyses of data from completed studies and noted deficiencies related to CMC all of which must be resolved before approval can be granted by FDA.
As you may recall the BLA was submitted to the FDA by Cangene prior to the closing of the acquisition.
We saw potential upside to our base case analysis of Cangene should this product be approved in the near term.
We plan to engage with the FDA to nail down precisely what information will be needed to address all of the issues outlined in the complete response letter.
While we don’t have all of the details we can conclude that we do not expect to launch this year.
We also do not anticipate this to have a negative impact on our financial performance in 2014.
For the remainder of the year we are focused on the following priorities first achieving our targeted revenues for the year with contributions from product sales as well as our contract manufacturing operations.
Second improving our cost structure which includes optimizing the utilization of our facilities in Winnipeg.
Third advancing product candidates based on our ADAPTIR platform through partnerships which would demonstrate the value of our technology and defrayed development costs.
ES 414 our bispecific immune-based therapy for prostate cancer is a good example.
And finally we continue to evaluate M&amp;A opportunities as a source for additional revenue generating assets in our portfolio.
We are making good progress on all of these priorities and we look forward to providing further details moving forward.
With that I'll turn it over to Bob Kramer.
Bob? Thank you Barry and good afternoon to everyone on the call.
I’m going to start off by reviewing the second-quarter financial results for 2014 compared to last year and then do the same for the six month period ended June 30.
Next I will discuss our thoughts on Q3 revenue guidance and how that fits with our new estimates for the total year referenced by Dan earlier.
I will also comment on our balance sheet focusing on our cash and accounts receivable position and then turn the call over to you for questions.
For the quarter total revenue was $110.3 million or $27.9 million above Q2 of last year a 34% improvement.
This favorable performance is a result of having the former Cangene operations consolidated with Emergent for the full quarter following the acquisition in February.
As expected the gross margin on product and CMO revenue for the quarter of 60.5% is below the historical trend of 70% to 80% due to the addition of the newly acquired products and services.
While we anticipate improvement in the gross margin performance over time as we communicated last quarter on the call the new norm will be in the range of 60% to 70% versus the historical margin which was heavily influenced by BioThrax.
R&amp;D spending for the quarter totaled $37.4 million a $7.1 million increase over the prior year quarter.
The increase is the result of the acquired Cangene R&amp;D activities which totaled 11.4 million offset by reduction in Emergent’s R&amp;D investments of $4.3 million.
The $11.4 million in former Cangene product R&amp;D included $2.9 million for IXinity and approximately $6.4 million combined for BAT and AIG.
The $4.3 million reduction in Emergent’s R&amp;D spend included lower spend on Otlertuzumab.
On a net basis R&amp;D spend is $14.5 million for the quarter and is up $1.2 million over last year reflecting our focus on securing third-party funding for our development programs.
Moving down the income statement to SG&amp;A total spend for the quarter was $30.6 million $10 million higher than last year.
Again the increase is primarily the result of new costs related to the completed acquisitions plus diligence cost related to support for new acquisition opportunities.
Finally net income for the quarter was $5 million or $0.13 per share versus the prior year quarter of $10.5 million or $0.29 per share.
For the six-month period ended June 30 financial performance compared to the prior year mirrors the performance in the quarter mainly increased revenue due to our acquired products and services lower consolidated gross margin due to the change in the sales mix relatively flat net R&amp;D costs and higher SG&amp;A attributable to acquisitions made in 2013 and early 2014.
Finally at quarter year end our cash and cash equivalents balance was $168 million slightly higher than the Q2 balance of $160 million.
When you add in the $78 million in accounts receivables outstanding at the end of June our cash and AR total was $246 million the highest level in the company’s history.
This financial strength positions us well to continue to execute on our growth plan including targeted acquisitions.
Overall the financial performance for the quarter and year-to-date is in line with our expectations and consistent with what was needed to generate the total year projections for revenue and net income contained in our guidance targets.
The new revenue guidance for the year is between $425 million and $450 million up from the$415 million and $445 million range originally established in the beginning of the year.
This increased range primarily reflects stronger than anticipated revenue associated with the biodefense products acquired from Cangene the midpoint of the new range is more than 35% higher than last year.
With first half revenues being $164 million we expect increasingly strong quarters in Q3 and in Q4.
The Q3 guidance for revenue of between $110 million and $125 million is consistent both with this improved performance estimate as well as our historical trend of strong second half results for the year.
This trend and historical performance applies to net income as well.
As I mentioned earlier we expect the consolidated gross margin to increase in the second half of the year as the revenue mix begins to reflect a higher percentage of BioThrax shipments in support of our CDC contract.
The favorable impact of this change in sales mix along with anticipated increased international sales of our biodefense products should boost our profit contribution in the second half of the year and generate net income in line with our guidance of between $30 million and $40 million on a GAAP basis as well as the GAAP guidance we are maintaining the adjusted net income guidance of between $40 million and $50 million we provided last quarter.
That concludes my remarks and I'll now turn the call back to the operator who will take your questions.
Operator? (Operator instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Cory Kasimov with JP Morgan.
Please proceed.
Hi this is actually Brittany on for Cory.
Thank you for taking the questions.
Can you comment on the market opportunities for AIG VIG and are you guys going to have to build any incremental infrastructure at launch? Brittany thanks for joining the call today and I appreciate the question.
So the market opportunity for AIG maybe Adam you can address where you see that going.
But it is both domestic and international and as we stated during our prepared comments we are very pleased with the extent to which we have been able to cross sell the products within the portfolio and it is not just with respect to AIG.
It is really across the entire portfolio.
So that is something that from our perspective is going quite well with the integration of the Cangene operations in the portfolio there.
So with domestic and international and Adam you might want to talk a little bit about the manufacturing requirements and also any more detail on the international markets?  Sure.
As Dan mentioned it is split – we are obviously in the middle of delivering on our development contract which is approximately $160 million.
In that contract we deliver our plasma product for future manufacturing and processing for the strategic national stockpile.
So that is an area that we see the market continuing and will remain I think reliable and stable.
On the international front it is really as we are getting out there now with the suite of biodefense products we are just seeing increased interest in both AIG and BAT specifically and we believe there is a real opportunity there.
I think it is really early at this point but we have numerous countries and contracts that we have been dealing with for years on biotech that are interested in those products.
And on the manufacturing point the facilities up in Winnipeg are well positioned and adequate to meet the demand for AIG.
So we don’t see any capital spend associated with that.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Molloy with Summer Street.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I was wondering if you could walk through -- you mentioned at the end talking about improving the cost structure and margins improving in the second half but revenues -- you're increasing revenue and yet maintaining flat net income guidance for the year walk me through what I'm missing and why top line increasing and improving margins doesn’t equate to increase in net income? Sure Jim.
Thanks for the call.
This is Bob.
So as we typically do Jim when we go through the year we feel a little more comfortable about where we think we are going to fall in the range first of all.
So we have seven months under our belt and have a little clarity on BioThrax shipments and the other components of the base business so we feel a little more comfortable about tightening the range and secondly some of the growth opportunity that we see as was commented by Adam and Barry in the past is related to exceeding expectations in the acquired products from the former Cangene operations and as we identified early on for 2014 until we squeeze out the synergies that we anticipated that is going to be fairly low margin revenue.
So while we see some upside in the revenue it is not going to be particularly profit rich revenue and as such we felt we didn’t feel comfortable with increasing the guidance on that income at this time.
All right.
Great thanks for that explanation.
And then on now Building 55 my understanding you're going to start the rolling submission first quarter and end it second – some time in '15.
Last guidance we had on licensure of this company of this product was end of '15 potential production early '16.
What's the best expectation for licensure of Building 55 and starting getting the wheels turning there? Yes.
I know it is – it is a great question and thanks for asking Jim.
So the rolling submission you correctly point out we anticipate [Indiscernible] starting that submission which is I think a good development and a new development from our perspective.
As you know there are a couple of components to any deal as submission including in this case the manufacturing the data and then the non-clinical data package that needs to go in.
And the non-clinical data package is really dependent on some reports being written up by the third parties that are facilitating and conducting those studies.
So we are right now in the process of determining what the optimal schedule is with that third party to see what is the art of the possible and the doable.
So we'll have some better visibility in terms of when those reports might be available given the timeline that we now have for the commencement of those non-clinical studies.
So I don’t have a more specific date to give you with respect to the potential for licensure but we continue to track towards getting these non-clinicals started getting the rolling submissions underway and I think we will have better granularity on the completion of the submission of the BLA to the FDA in the coming months.
Is it still the expectation that one year from the completion of the BLA for licensure or is it one year from the start of the rolling submission to licensure? So it is not one year from the completion of the BLA submission.
Adam do you want to touch on the expectation on – Sure.
So Jim as we have talked about before there is really this pivotal study is the last step really the planned step in this comparability journey that we've been on.
From there as we mentioned we will initiate that first submission.
There will likely be a PAI of Building 55 where the FDA will come on site and meet with us.
So that will likely happen in the first half of next year and then if that in-live phase of the non-clinical study wraps up which will be probably late 2014 early 2015.
There is as Dan mentioned some processing of that data that will have to occur but I think we are still targeting the end of the year.
But as Dan mentioned we will be working that out with our [detail] on our suppliers and be able to give more granularity as we progress into the year.
But technically this is right on track.
As I said in my comments we are really excited about this and as we have been saying for a while technically this is a matter of getting to the finish line which is a matter of when and I think things are clearly strong right now to stay right on course.
Could I just – one quick follow-up on that did you say you're still targeting then -- your current expectation is still to have the licensure of this by the end of '15 is that your target or – Yes.
I think that is our target and as I said there are a couple of moving pieces and we need to flatten that out.
But that still remains the target and I think it is achievable.
So we will work things out the way we would like them to come out.
Great.
All right.
Thank you very much for taking the questions.
Sure.
(Operator instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Marc Frahm with Cowen and Company.
Please proceed.
Hi yes thanks for taking my questions today.
And first is just now that you have got a little bit more of an opportunity to dig into Cangene is there any kind of seasonality to the revenues that we should be thinking about? Yes Marc thanks for joining the call and thanks for your question [Indiscernible] and there is two pieces to it.
Sorry for the break here.
We are getting a little feedback at our end and hopefully not at your end.
So there are two pieces.
Obviously there is the biodefense product portfolio which is being managed in Adam’s division and then there is the bioscience business which is both the commercial products and the CMO business which Barry is managing.
And I think there are different answers depending on which of the portfolios you look at and I might ask Barry to talk about the biosciences which I think has a different profile than the bio-D.
Yes so it is actually different between the two components of the revenue streams even in the biosciences revenue.
So in the product the commercial products for instance WinRho and HepaGam there isn’t any meaningful seasonality that affects the sales curve.
In the contract manufacturing there is a little bit more.
We have our annual shutdown early in the year which certainly affects revenue in sort of late first quarter early second quarter and then as we come back out of that we expect to have more consistent revenue flow throughout the rest of the year.
So that is really the only significant chunk of seasonality that I would expect on the biosciences piece of the revenue from the former Cangene.
The biodefense is certainly a little bit more lumpy and I think Adam can comment on that.
So as kind of history has shown I mean BioThrax I think is always going to be weighted towards the second half of the year and that means driven by shutdown activities.
We shutdown typically in October that spills into the first quarter and it takes some time to get back up to steady state.
We do see some of that same seasonality with RSDL very similar and it is quite lumpy.
US government purchases tend to be either early in the year or late in the year especially as new budgets are approved especially in the fourth quarter.
And so for at least for those two products it will be similar.
So for the other for BAT AIG and VIG I think we are still a little too early to know on seasonality but I think the international markets can be lumpy as well over time.
So we are going to have some pockets here when they go up and down.
Yes this is Bob.
The only other thing I might add – getting feedback again – is for 2014 the additional Cangene revenue primarily – particularly in the bio-D area is going to be second half weighted very similar to BioThrax.
So as Adam indicated as we go through the first year or so we will have a better indication of how lumpy that is and you will see as well in our results and get better used to seeing that those trends.
But for this year it is going to be a bit back end weighted.
Okay.
That's great.
And I think back when you guys announced the Cangene acquisition you mentioned the possibility of I think especially in the biosciences products taking some price increases that hadn't been taken in years through contract renegotiations.
Do you have a better feel for when those -- maybe you've had some success already or when those contracts are coming up? Yes it is a great question.
So we haven’t seen any of the impact of that as yet and the driver for that is as you mentioned the contracting which kind of limits how much price changes can pass through to the bottom line.
So the important contracts that provide those kind of constraints go into the first part of 2015.
So right around that time we should start to see some price increase opportunity start to come to fruition.
Okay.
And then lastly if there's any updates you can give on Otlertuzumab and kind of partnership discussions maybe any terms sheets.
Yes.
So there are continuing discussions going on about Otlertuzumab.
We have interested parties in science of this product and there is strong appreciation for the fact that we have got proof of concept in a novel anti-cancer agent with a really good safety profile.
And there is a need for that in CLL in combination therapies offering opportunities to give sustained remissions even after cessation of therapy.
Even in light of the new products that have been launched by Ibrutinib that give great responses but you have to stay on therapy and that has its consequences both financial and medical.
So there is interest in the program but as we have talked about before there is great uncertainty about commercially exactly where will it fit and that is why it is taking time for anybody to actually jump in and decide to make the investment in a Phase III development program.
So we continue to have discussions we continue to generate some incremental new data from our ongoing studies and there are some smaller investigator sponsored studies that there is great interest in conducting.
So all I can say on that one is stay tuned.
We also have additional discussions going on about other ADAPTIR programs.
So we will pursue those as well and let you know if something gets done there.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question we have a follow up from Jim Molloy from Summer Street.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my follow-up.
I just wanted to get squared away the product sales $78.3 million and $67.5 million BioThrax what are the other $10.7 million? You were looking for the quarter Jim? Yes sir.
And how is RSDL in the quarter? So in addition to – for the quarter in addition to BioThrax there are sales of RSDL there are also sales of the product that Barry mentioned WinRho and HepaGam and the other acquired products from the Cangene acquisition that make up the balance of what you are looking at.
Did I answer your question Jim? No.
I was wondering if you could break down what those were that make up the balance.
They will be in the Q Jim which is going to be filed in the next day or so.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Sure.
There are no further questions in queue.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Bob Burrows for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Thank you Whitley.
Ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have today.
Thank you for your participation.
Please note that today’s school is being recorded and a replay will be available beginning later today.
Alternatively there is available a webcast of today’s call an archived version of which will be available again later today accessible through the company website.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Emergent BioSolutions Incorporated Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Denise and I'll be the operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now turn the conference over to the company.
Please proceed.
Thank you Denise.
Good afternoon everyone.
My name is Robert Burrows Vice President of Investor Relations for Emergent.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss our financial results for the third quarter and nine months of 2014.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
And in addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi President and Chief Executive Officer; Adam Havey Executive Vice President and President of our Biodefense Division; Barry Labinger Executive Vice President and President of our Biosciences Division; and Bob Kramer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
For the cal today Dan will discuss the state of our business including high level current period financial results and an overview of divisional operations; Adam will discuss in greater detail the current state of the Biodefense operations; Barry will discuss in greater the detail the current state of the Biosciences operations; and Bob will conclude with the detailed discussion of our financial performance and outlook.
Following the prepared comments we will conduct a Q&amp;A session.
Before we begin I am compelled to remind everyone that during today’s call either in our prepared comments more the Q&amp;A session management may make projections and other forward-looking statements related to our business future events our prospects for future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent’s current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
You are encouraged to review Emergent’s filings with the SEC on forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
During our prepared comments or the Q&amp;A session we may also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures that involve adjustments to GAAP figures in order to provide greater transparency regarding Emergent’s operating performance.
Please refer to the two tables one for the third quarter and the other for the nine-month period found in today’s press release regarding our use of non-GAAP or adjusted financial measures and the reconciliation between our non-GAAP adjusted financial measures and our GAAP financial measures.
For the benefit of those who maybe listening to the replay of webcast this call was held and recorded on November 06 2014 since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today’s call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today's press release may be found on the Investors Home page of our website.
With that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions' President and CEO.
Dan? Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call.
Over the course of 2014 we have made significant progress in our priorities to grow our business consistent with our growth plan.
Our revenue and net income performance was strong with third quarter revenue of $138 million.
This is above the guidance of between $110 million to $125 million that we provided during our earnings call in August.
For the quarter our GAAP net income was approximately $22 million and our non-GAAP adjusted net income was $25 million.
Historically our fourth quarter is our strongest quarter both in terms of revenue generation and net income performance.
We anticipate this trend will continue this year based on expected financial contributions from our BioThrax business additional product sales in both divisions contract manufacturing operations and our contracts [expense] and collaborations business.
As announced in today's press release given our strong financial performance today and our anticipated progress for the remainder of the year we are increasing our full year 2014 revenue guidance to between $440 million to $460 million and GAAP net income guidance to between $35 million to $45 million.
We're also increasing our adjusted net income guidance to between $50 million to $60 million.
Operationally we continue to make progress in our priorities across both divisions.
For our Biodefense division our core business continues to be strong and we remain on plan for the expansion of BioThrax manufacturing and Building 55.
Moreover with a broader portfolio of Biodefense products we are making steady progress on expanding sales including our international markets with additional growth anticipated in the fourth quarter.
We have advanced our cost containment objectives through a consolidation of sales and marketing operations and the realignment of sectors of our workforce to create additional operational efficiencies and better leverage our resources.
Adam will provide greater insights into the division operations during his prepared remarks.
We’re also seeing solid progress in our Biosciences division.
The Cangene integration continues to progress well and in that process we have identified synergies that can streamline our business operations to reduce costs including R&amp;D spend.
To that end we are closing and selling select R&amp;D facilities consolidating certain operations and discontinuing programs that are not consistent with our growth plans.
Barry will discuss this in greater detail during his prepared remarks.
Of note we recently completed a significant collaboration agreement with MorphoSys that provides for joint worldwide development and commercialization of ES414 our immunotherapeutic protein targeting prostate cancer.
Under the terms of the agreement which provides for payments of up to $183 million we received $20 million in an upfront fee with future payments based on traditional product development milestones.
This is an exciting collaboration of a product candidate developed on our ADAPTIR platform.
And just as an example of how we can expand our product portfolio with potentially valuable candidates while effectively controlling overall R&amp;D spend.
With respect to M&amp;A we continue to make progress on targets that will leverage our core competencies and drive further progress towards achieving growth in our business.
For our Biodefense business we’re focused on medical countermeasures that governments currently stockpile where as international demand will address CBRN detection and diagnostic opportunities or carry with them contract and grant funding.
For our Biosciences business we continue to seek revenue generating opportunities to enhance both top-line and bottom-line performance and that are aligned with our current clinical focus areas.
Further our Biosciences team is pursuing partnerships for products developed on our ADAPTIR platform as well as to the platform itself.
In closing I’d like to comment on our progress towards achieving our 2015 growth plan targets.
As you might recall in 2012 we set financial and operational targets to be achieved by the organization by the end of next year.
Specifically we targeted greater than $500 million in product and service revenue from at least three marketed products that would provide a 2012 to 2015 net income CAGR of greater than 15%.
At this point we are on or ahead of schedule to achieve these goals.
As we move towards 2015 we are planning the next phase of our corporate growth.
Currently we’re working with our Board of Directors to finalize our next multiyear strategic plan which I expect to be able to share with you by the middle of next year.
That concludes my prepared comments and I now turn it over to Adam Havey who will discuss the Biodefense Division’s operations in greater detail.
Adam? Thank you Dan.
During the third quarter we continued to make solid progress expanding our Biodefense business by focusing on what we do best delivering CBRN countermeasures that address current health threats advancing the development of additional medical countermeasures and platforms that address unmet public health needs and building a flexible vertically integrated manufacturing infrastructure capable of rapidly producing vaccines therapeutics small molecules and other biologics.
And expanding the use of our product portfolio on a global basis.
So let me highlight our recent accomplishments.
In the third quarter Biodefense revenues were just over $104 million greatly contributing to the overall performance of the company year-to-date as well as to the increased outlook for full year 2014.
The third quarter revenue included $66 million in BioThrax sales and over $26 million in contract and grant revenue.
BioThrax revenue was primarily from sales under our current five-year $1.25 billion contract with the CDC to deliver 44.75 million doses due to strategic national stockpile.
Delivery of BioThrax this quarter was on track and comparable to deliveries this time last year.
Other Biodefense revenues totaled $21.4 million so far this year.
RSDL sales for the three-month and nine-month periods were in line with our expectations including first-time purchase orders for a number of strategically important couturiers.
As with that we completed a substantial delivery of product to the SNS under our multi-year USG contract.
And lastly AIG revenue was attributable to deliveries under our current USG contract and we are working diligently to respond to FDA request during the BLA review.
We are optimistic that this product will be licensed in early 2015 which will trigger a $7 million payment.
Next let me update you on Building 55 our large-scale BioThrax manufacturing facility.
Back in September we announced initiation of the pivotal non-clinical study designed to show the BioThrax manufacturing in Building 55 is comparable to that manufactured in our current approved facility.
I’m pleased to report that this study is progressing according to plan and in-live phase should be completed in Q1 2015.
We are targeting a rolling sBLA solution to the FDA a first part which is planned to be submitted in early 2015.
The key steps that need to be completed in order for this facility to be licensed include successful completion of an FDA inspection of the facility completion of the non-clinical study and the analysis of the data from that study and of course FDA approval of the entire package including data from the completed comparability protocols.
While there is much to do our target continues to be to completing all of these activities in 2015.
Schedule is tight and it is possible that we will see the approval in the early 2016.
On our contract and grants side we received two new contracts during the third quarter.
First the CDC exercised the contract option valued at $18.9 million for VIG our therapeutic license for the treatment of complications due to small pox vaccination.
This three year option supports ongoing stability of the product as well as collection of plasma.
Second in September we were awarded another contract valuing at up to $29 million for the development of the dry formulation of NuThrax our Next Generation Anthrax Vaccine that adds CPG 7909 Adjuvant to BioThrax.
Dry formulations of NuThrax should enable stores at ambient and higher temperatures thus eliminating the cold chain during shipping and storage.
Switching gears to a topic that has been in the media recently I would like to briefly touch on Emergent's efforts to respond to public health emergencies.
As you know Ebola has been a tremendous concern mostly in West Africa but also here in the U.S.
As our federal government works to respond to this crisis we have issued task order request for the production of developmental therapeutic candidates.
In 2002 the government put infrastructure in place to quickly address Emergent BioThrax when it created with industry Centers for Innovation in Advanced Development and Manufacturing.
Our facility in Baltimore Maryland is one of those three designated centers.
We will submit or proposal to BARDA next week and anticipate they may make one or more awards shortly thereafter.
At this point we cannot predict the timing or the amount of any potential awards.
We also anticipate that BARDA will likely issue additional past quarter request related to Ebola in the coming months.
Given our track record of partnering with the U.S.
government we are prepared to assist the government in their response to the significant global health [drop].
That concludes my prepared comments.
And I will now turn it over to Barry who will provide an update on the Biosciences division.
Thanks Adam and good afternoon everyone.
During the third quarter we made good progress toward our goal of building a high growth biopharmaceutical business that meaningfully enhances patients’ lives and is financially self-sufficient.
Having completed a thoughtful portfolio assessment following the close of our Cangene acquisition we've made some decisions and implemented them to restructure the business for its greater financial health.
Let me focus on a few examples.
We're very excited about our participation in the attractive immune-oncology space specifically our proprietary redirected T-cell cytotoxicity or RTCC approach with our ADAPTIR platform.
These are bi-specific therapeutic proteins that binds the anagen zone on tumor cells such as PSMA prostate cancer cells and through CD3 which is expressed on T-lymphocyte.
The anti-CD3 part of the molecule actives a T-cell mediated immune response targeted against the tumor cell.
Other companies are also pursuing RTCC as it’s a very promising approach.
Our technology offers some clear benefit.
In preclinical studies we see protein activation of T-cell activity with less release of cytokine.
As you’re probably aware the release of cytokines at high levels can lead to safety issues.
Our molecules also offer pharmacokinetic advantages such as long half-life leading the less frequent dosing as well as manufacturer ability advantages.
Our most advanced RTCC program is ES414 or Anti-PSMA Anti-CD3 Molecule which is poised to start Phase I in the next couple of months in patients with prostate cancer.
Consistent with our overall strategy of securing partnerships for early-stage programs we’re pleased to have signed a co-development and commercialization agreement with MorphoSys a successful German-based biotechnology company known for its scientific excellence and which is building an exciting development stage pipeline largely in oncology.
In the third quarter we recognized a little over $15 million of revenue on the $20 million upfront payment.
We’re also having a milestone payment upon dosing of the first patient in the Phase I study which is planned for late this year and is included in the financial outlook we’re putting forward today.
We’ll be working in close collaboration with MorphoSys throughout the development of ES414.
And when we take into account the upfront and milestone payments and MorphoSys’ responsibility for 64% of the development cost our net investment in the development of ES414 will be small for a number of years to come.
Once licensed Emergent will commercialize ES414 in the U.S.
and Canada and MorphoSys will commercialize in the rest of the world.
We look forward to clinical data for this program over the next couple of years and we’re also working towards additional partnerships around other product candidates from our RTCC platform.
One of the programs in the Cangene portfolio was a recombinant human growth hormone product.
We decided to discontinue investment in this program and eliminated essentially all spending on it earlier in the year.
We’re also seeking to exit the smaller of our two Winnipeg manufacturing facilities on our Annual Day.
If successful the sale of this facility will help reduce our overhead cost moving forward.
We have previously reported our intention to hold off on Phase III development of otlertuzumab for CLL unless and until we secure our partnership.
As a consequence spending on otlertuzumab has been dramatically reduced from approximately $27 million in 2013 to a 2014 expectation of less than $10 million and much less than that in 2015 based on limiting the programs to generate data from a low cost triple combination study that could be valuable in our partnering efforts.
We also announced during Q3 the closure of our Munich R&amp;D site which has been dedicated to the development of our proprietary viral vaccine vector technology known as MVA.
While promising the product candidates emerging from this platform are quite early stage and we’ve determined that it’s not consistent with our strategy to maintain investments in these programs.
The site will be substantially closed by the end of this year with modest shutdown activities expanding into the first half of 2015.
As these examples illustrate we continue to build financial strength to our Biosciences business.
We’re working towards financial sales efficiency for this business while simultaneously assembling a portfolio of assets that will drive sustained revenue growth.
We have an active business development effort targeting both partnerships for our existing products and technologies as well as acquisitions of new products that will provide near term revenue growth.
With that I'll turn the call over to Bob Kramer.
Bob? Thank you Barry and good afternoon to everyone on the call.
I’m going to discuss our financial performance for the third quarter and then turn to a summary of where we are on a year-to-date basis as we head into the fourth quarter targeting to deliver the increased revenue net income performance mentioned earlier on the call.
Before I jump into the details of the third quarter I’d like to highlight a few comments made on our Q2 earnings call in August as a backdrop to our Q3 results.
On that call we discussed our expectation of increasingly strong financial performance in the second half of 2014 in order to meet our projections.
We forecasted our Q3 revenues to be between $110 million and $125 million which reflected this improved performance.
We also guided that our sales mix would generate improved operating margins in the second half of the year as higher margin BioThrax sales became a greater percentage of our overall product revenue.
And lastly we discussed our continued focus on advancing our ADAPTIR platform product candidates through partnerships as a way of demonstrating the value of our technology and importantly deferring R&amp;D costs.
During the third quarter we made significant progress on all fronts starting with total revenue which was around $138 million outperforming the midpoint of our range by 20 million and bettering our Q2 total by 25%.
This performance was a result of the combination of the continued strength of our Biodefense business and boosted by the Bioscience business in the recognition of approximately $15 million of the $20 million upfront fee associated with the partnership with MorphoSys focused on ES414 our based ADAPTIR prostate cancer product candidate.
Drilling down a bit total product sales for the quarter came in at $85 million.
Of that $77 million was generated from our Biodefense division led by BioThrax a $66 million contribution in the quarter.
The other Biodefense products contributed 11 million in sales for the quarter.
The Bioscience products contributed additional $7 million to revenue all of which was incremental to last year due to the timing of the Cangene acquisition earlier this year.
In addition to the $85 million of product revenue we generated contracts grants and collaboration revenue of $44 million along with CMO revenue of $9 million.
The contracts grants and collaboration revenue reflects the impact of the recognition of the MorphoSys upfront payment.
As a result of the improved sales mix our consolidated gross margin for the quarter was 65% up from the prior quarter of 61%.
As mentioned on the last call the new norm for our consolidated gross margin is between 60% and 70%.
So with our Q3 results we're right in the middle of this new range.
Walking further down to income statement gross R&amp;D expense for the quarter was $44 million or $15 million above last year's quarter primarily due to development programs acquired from Cangene.
Adjusting for the contracts grants and collaboration revenue line which reflects reimbursement for development costs our net R&amp;D spend for the quarter was de minimis at approximately $1 000.
SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $30 million $8 million above prior year quarter again largely due to the additional cost associated with the Cangene acquisition.
Importantly however our SG&amp;A for each of the three quarters of 2014 has remained relatively constant level at around $30 million.
We will continue to pursue further optimization in this line item as we grow the business.
The favorable revenue and margin performance during the quarter were key contributors to generating $22 million in GAAP net income or $0.58 per basic share; this compares to prior year GAAP net income of $13 million or $0.37 per share.
On a non-GAAP basis adjusted net income was $25 million or $0.67 per share compared with $16 million or $0.43 per share for the comparable period in 2013.
Turning to the year-to-date performance the nine month financials reflect the continued fundamental strength of the Biodefense business aided by the company’s efforts to manage net R&amp;D costs and our continued focus on sharing development risk by securing opportunities to partner with third-parties on R&amp;D projects particularly for our ADAPTIR platform candidates.
For the nine-month period of 2014 our GAAP net income of $7 million includes $13 million of adjustments or acquisition related costs and other non-recurring and non-cash expenses.
After adjustments the year-to-date adjusted net income was $20 million.
Although this is essentially even for the adjusted net income for the same period in 2013 it does represent accelerated net income performance as compared to the prior year period.
In addition to the strengthening financial performance reflected in our income statement our balance sheet continues to improve.
At quarter-end our cash position was $242 million with another $44 million of receivables.
As a result of the financial performance in Q3 we’ve put ourselves in a good position to deliver increasingly strong financial results in Q4.
Accordingly we’ve increased our outlook for 2014 across all three metrics.
Specifically we’ve increased our revenue guidance to between $440 million and $460 million.
We’ve increased our GAAP net income guidance to between $35 million and $45 million.
And we’ve increased our adjusted net income guidance between $50 million and $60 million.
That concludes my prepared remarks.
And I’ll now turn the call over to the operator who will begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Jim Molloy with Summer Street.
Please proceed.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
I had a question on maintenance what were the actual RSDL sales in the quarter? And then follow-up on that on a bigger picture for Glaxo for Novartis potential manufacturing? Okay.
Thanks Jim.
I appreciate your participating on the call.
On the RSDL first let me answer the second question and I’ll hand over the RSDL to Adam.
So it’s true there is a $6 billion in the total request has been sent over.
About a $155 million a $160 million has been allocated to BARDA specifically for the development of medical countermeasures therapeutics and vaccines.
So currently that might -- depending on what Congress does with it that might be the level of additional funding that would be provided to BARDA over and above what the economy has allocated for the Ebola crisis.
So hopefully that gives you some clarity.
So on the RSDL front Adam why don’t you -- I think the question was what were the RSDL? As you can tell Jim as our portfolio has grown and expanded we’re going to focus on BioThrax sales.
That's primary driver and kind of catering all of our other products sales really in other sense.
We're not going to build that level of granularity as we move forward.
So that's something we have to kind of estimate it on a gross level with the additional products in our portfolio.
Yes.
And a little bit more clarity on Adam’s specific products start to gain additional market channel become larger and larger in terms of their revenue generation.
We will get greater visibility as they become bigger in percentage with the total revenue overall.
Okay fair enough.
A couple of quick follow-up questions if I could; thank you for that.
R&amp;D really fell off the table I guess in a good way to have a lower number there.
Is that sustainable where does that number get to on the actual spend but you guys -- obviously most of the R&amp;D is the contract grants reimbursed R&amp;D? And then talk a little bit about the fully diluted shares kind of took a jump in the quarter what's the driver of that and we have steady levels? Jim this is Bob.
So on the R&amp;D for the quarter the net R&amp;D reflects clearly the netting of the $15 million MorphoSys upfront payment.
So you shouldn't expect us to have essentially zero net R&amp;D on the quarterly basis going forward.
But as we talked about on prior calls our emphasis is on continuing to manage R&amp;D costs looks for opportunities to partner certain technologies like the ES414 candidate and gradually walk that net R&amp;D number as a percent of our revenue down from historical levels of 20% to 25% down to a high teens number.
So we'll continue to make progress there.
I'll add just a comment to that Bob.
Jim as you know it's been a priority for us to partner these assets and initially we've been spending quite a bit of time on that partnering and it turned that ES414 was the first to get across the goal line.
So this remains a focus for us across the portfolio and actually for the prior quarter itself we think that the ADAPTIR platform being bi-specific is the state-of-the-art it's a very interesting platform.
So to Bob’s point can't expect to see this on a regular basis but it is a part of the way in which we intend to operate our business.
So don't be surprised in the future when we announce deals that are around partnering particular assets or the platform as a whole.
And Jim on the question about fully diluted or the weighted average number of shares in the quarter we're reflecting the impact of the convert shares.
We did not include them last time because we had a net loss cumulative as of the end of six months.
So it was inappropriate for us to reflect those fully diluted weighted shares.
Excellent.
And I guess the last question should we be expecting another acquisition to get to the $500 million at some point here in 2015? It's a great question.
So the short answer is yes we are looking at acquiring.
And it’s really not so much around when do we get to the 500 but that’s just the way in which we intend to build both businesses.
And where we are right now is -- there are number of interesting targets that we’ve identified for both Biosciences and Biodefense and some of them could be meaningful contributors to top-line and bottom-line.
So I am actually quite excited about the prospects for completing transactions.
But as you know it’s a timely process and we need to be patient and we need to be prudent.
And as we’ve discussed in the past we do have specific metrics and criteria; we don’t get worried to an opportunity if it turns out if it’s part of an option and we get out there and we’re out there.
And if we can’t do it on the terms that we feel are appropriate for our shareholders we will walk which has happened in the past.
So we remain active but prudent in terms of our approach to M&amp;A.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Okay.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from Marc Frahm with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Hi and thanks for taking my question.
And just kind of housekeeping on Building 55 as we move towards approval.
Do you guys expect to kind of press releasing when these major steps are finished or just are we going to have to wait until the application is complete? [Technical Difficulty].
Okay.
And then also as we all are anticipating it eventually being approved when could we expect to see some movement on kind of negotiating the next contract for BioThrax and will that necessarily include the Building 55 or might it happen sooner or I mean that can reflect that excess capacity? Yes.
It’s a great question.
[Technical Difficulty].
Yes.
So our expectation -- experience with the CDC has been at least in this context we would expect to start the discussions with them once the application starts to go in.
I think they would look at this and say there is no new to have a discussion until we know you’re actually across the goal line with getting application restarted.
And then there is some lead time associated with any of these contract negotiations.
So that’s an area where we likely will not provide great visibility to investors; those discussions are confidential.
But we do anticipate making progress during the course of next year potentially starting those discussions as early as second quarter next year.
Okay.
And then there has been some hope that you could start selling more to non-U.S.
governments.
Will all of us kind of have to wait until we have a new U.S.
contract or can you do that in parallel? Yes.
So Marc this is Adam Havey.
So we would do that in parallel.
Obviously the upside in capacity in 55 really creates I’d say even more opportunity internationally.
But as we’ve mentioned in the past we continue to work on expanding our reach internationally if you will BioThrax for BAT for AIG for VIG and RSDL.
So that’s the major focus for us right now and will continue to be a focus in 2015.
We think we can build some demand in those market prior to approval of Building 55 and we’ll continue to see movement there in 2015.
Okay.
And then finally back to the Ebola task order is something of that going to be contingent on the funding request from Obama getting filled by Congress or does BARDA have enough money sitting around right now to settle this request? So that's a great question.
BARDA does have funds.
We don't have complete transparency in terms of exactly how much they have and how much they will be allocating to each of the activities they have underway.
And as you can appreciate this is a fairly expensive program that they're launching here.
My suspicion and I think it was just common sense they all have adequate funding to do everything that they would like to do but they do have funds in order to get these programs started and then they will continue to fill that pipeline through additional appropriations as they materialize from Congress.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Randy Scherago with LaSalle Street Capital Management.
Please proceed.
Hi guys great quarter and just a couple of quick questions just on housekeeping.
The facility in Winnipeg is that going to be again write-off or sort of a net neutral to earnings going forward? Any sort of -- and number two any clarity on what you're doing with IXinity? Is there are you starting or rolling off of that program or are you going forward with it will there be cost associated with it? And the third was the shutdown sort of a normal shutdown for Building 12 in lancing are you back up and running again and making BioThrax? All right Randy this is Bob.
I'll take the first part and then I think Barry will answer the second and probably Adam the third so you get three of us in a row here.
I think on the write-down or the sale of the facility in Winnipeg there may be a small gain but it won't have a material impact on our statements overall.
Okay.
And the question about IXinity; as you know we received a complete response letter from the FDA at the end of July when we reached our PDUFA date.
We've since had discussions with the agency and reached resolution on the content of response to that which we have submitted.
So the program is back under review and if the review is completed successfully then we do plan to launch of this product in 2015.
There is no additional cost associated with responding to the issues that were raised in the CRR.
So we have some ongoing studies that we've had in place anyway and we'll continue and it’s post marketing commitment and we've had some preparation for the launch on the commercial side but all consistent with the plan we just had a bit of a delay in getting through approval on the launch.
Would the launch be late 2015? More around the middle of 2015.
So as you mentioned we really shutdown and we've successfully come out of the shutdown actually came out a few days early and things look great moving forward.
Great.
Thank you guys.
We have no further questions.
I would now turn the call over to Mr.
Bob Burrows for any closing remarks.
Thank you Denise.
With that ladies and gentlemen we have concluded the call.
Thank you for your participation.
Please note that today's call has been recorded and a replay will be available beginning later today.
Alternatively there is available webcast of today's call an archived version which will be available later today accessible through the company website.
Thank you again.
And we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Good bye.
This concludes today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 Emergent BioSolutions Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jackie and I'll be the operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of today's presentation.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to the company.
Please proceed.
Thank you Jackie.
Good afternoon everyone.
My name is Robert Burrows Vice President of Investor Relations for Emergent.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss our financial results for the fourth quarter and 12 months of 2014 and our outlook for 2015.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi President and Chief Executive Officer.
Following Dan's prepared comments we will conduct a Q&amp;A session at which time other members of senior management will be available to participate specifically Bob Kramer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Adam Havey Executive Vice President and President of our BioDefense Division; and Barry Labinger Executive Vice President and President of our BioSciences Division.
Before we begin I will remind everyone that during today’s call either in our prepared comments or the Q&amp;A session management may make projections and other forward-looking statements related to our business future events our prospects for future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent’s current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Please review our filings with the SEC on Forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
During our prepared comments or the Q&amp;A session we also may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures that involve adjustments to GAAP figures in order to provide greater transparency regarding Emergent’s operating performance.
Please refer to the tables found in today’s press release regarding our use of adjusted net income EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation between these non-GAAP financial measures and our GAAP financial measures.
For the benefit of those who maybe listening to the replay this call was held and recorded on March 05 2015.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today’s call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today's press release may be found on the Investors home page of our website.
And with that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions' President and CEO.
Dan? Well thank you Bob and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call.
Today I would like to provide an overview of our 2014 performance highlight some of our recent business achievements and lastly discuss our 2015 outlook.
Let's start with a review of our 2014 performance.
We recognize fourth quarter total revenue of 148 million up 51% from 2013 and full year total revenue of 450 million up 44% from last year and at the top of the range given at JP Morgan Conference on January 11th.
Our GAAP net income in the fourth quarter was 30 million up 98% from 2013 and full year GAAP net income was 36.7 million up 18% from last year.
Adjusted net income in the fourth quarter was 34.6 million up 104% from 2013 and full year adjusted net income was 54.2 million up 44% from last year.
EBITDA in the fourth quarter was 53.3 million up 84% from 2013 and full year EBITDA was 92.2 million up 46% from last year we closed 2014 with a cash position of $280 million and increase of 101 million compared to 2013.
Shifting over to 2014 business achievements I’d like to start with our BioDefense Division and Building 55 which is our large scale BioThrax manufacturing facility.
We continue to work on progressing Building 55 to licensure and last month we announced that the primary end points in our pivotal study were met.
The study showed that vaccine produced and Building 55 is comparable to that manufacturing Building 12 are currently approved facility.
We have sent to summary of key data to the FDA and plan to submit and to me we’re done this month to discuss our SBOA filing strategy.
The remainder of 2015 will entail completing the final study report the prior approval inspection of the facility and the SPOA we continue to work towards the goal of obtaining approval in late 2015 or early 2016.
We have also made progress towards securing a post exposure or peripheral access or pep indication for BioThrax.
Last November we submitted our application to the FDA for this indication which included data from a dozen non-clinical studies as well as three clinical trials.
This label expansion will further support BioThrax’s position as the leading medical counter measure against Anthrax disease.
The application is currently under review and we expect the decision to be made sometime in the second half of this year.
We have also advanced our progress on ANTHRASIL our anthrax immune globulin product being developed to treat toxemia associated with anthrax disease.
In July of last year we submitted a BOA to the FDA and this application is currently under review with the PDUFA date at the end of this month.
There was a $7 million milestone payment associated with FDA approval.
Finally as part of our focus on expanding our presence and product portfolio in the attractive BioDefense market at the end of 2014 we announced our expansion and to the broad spectrum antibiotics space through the acquisition of a series of molecules from Evolva.
This acquisition further aligns us with the U.S.
government strategic objective of combating antibiotic resistant bacteria.
The lead molecule GC072 is being developed for the treatment of Burkholderia under a contract with the DOD.
The unique feature of this series is that it offers the potential for commercialization of broad spectrum antibiotics to protect against multi drug resistant’s range of bacterial infections for both BioDefense and commercial application.
Within the BioSciences Division we have now successfully completed the integration of the Cangene which delivered better than expected revenue in 2014.
Included in the product development portfolio we acquired from Cangene was Xfinity a recombinant coagulation factor 9 for the treatment of hemophilia B.
This product is currently under review with the FDA and has a PDUFA date at the end of April.
We anticipate launching Xfinity later this year.
Finally we made significant progress on advancing our ADAPTIR platform in the very exciting immunoncology space.
Our focus with the ADAPTIR platform is on redirected T-cell cytotoxicity which generates a T-cell mediated immune response specifically targeting tumor cells.
Our lead candidate is MOR209/ES414 for prostate cancer and we made good progress in 2014 toward starting a Phase 1 trial.
We also established a partnership with MorphoSys to co-develop and commercialize this product.
Under the terms of the agreement we received a $20 million upfront payment in 2014 and in the future may receive development and regulatory milestone payments of up to $163 million.
As part of our growth strategy we continue to seek additional partnerships for other product candidates using our ADAPTIR platform.
Overall 2014 was a very exciting and successful year for Emergent and as many of you know in early January we forecast continued significant growth through 2015 both in our product portfolio and our corresponding financial performance.
That forecasted growth was attributable to a number of factors including a full year of Cangene operations expanded grant and contract revenue and increased year-over-year deliveries of BioThrax.
That brings me to the very recent developments described in our press release about an ongoing internal BioThrax manufacturing investigation.
Beginning on January 28 2015 during standard quality inspections performed in accordance with customary procedures we discovered foreign particles in a limited number of vials in two manufactured lots of BioThrax.
In order to determine the source of the foreign particles we have been investigating our operations as well as those of our suppliers and contract manufacturers.
Under our quality standards these two BioThrax launch will be rejected.
Currently there is no evidence that any other BioThrax launch have been affected.
But as a precautionary measure we have quarantined 13 additional lots and inventory pending the findings of our investigation.
It is our goal to complete this investigation within the next 60 days.
Consequently no BioThrax deliveries will be made in the first quarter.
Based upon current information and depending on the disposition of the quarantined lots the impact on previously forecasted 2015 BioThrax revenues is anticipated to be between zero and $65 million.
This ongoing investigation does not impact any of our other products or manufacturing operations including our Building 55 operations and plans for licensure.
Furthermore there was no current evidence that product and distribution is impacted.
Since the investigation is ongoing and the full scope of the issue has not been determined with certainty the actual impact may be greater than anticipated.
As we are unable to definitively assess the impact to 2015 financial results we are suspended previously issued 2015 guidance.
Guidance will be forthcoming following completion of the ongoing investigation.
In closing I want you to know that I am extremely confident in our operating systems and controls and the depth breadth and quality of our teams including the team addressing this issue.
While there is more to be done I wholeheartedly believe that we will work through this issue and that later this year we will be achieving the high levels of performance that we have come to expect from our organization as evidenced by some of the following anticipated near-term events.
First progress in our Ebola counter measure programs as well as the progress in the Phase 1 clinical trial for MOR209/ES414 and further progress on advancing the regulatory approval for Building 55.
On the regulatory approval front we are anticipating three approvals; first the approval of a path indication for BioThrax.
Second the approval for ANTHRASIL our Anthrax immune globulin.
And finally regulatory approval and commercial launch of Xfinity as a therapeutic bringing the familiar.
Finally we continue to anticipate progress in our efforts to go through synergistic and accretive acquisitions.
That concludes my prepared remarks and now I will turn the call over to the operator to begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Jessica Fye with JP Morgan.
Please proceed.
Hey guys this is Ryan in for Jessica.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I guess I just have two right now.
So does the FDA need to re-inspect the facility after you guys have completed your investigation? And then second in terms of your ability to fulfill the contract post 2016 do the economics change thanks? Well thank you for the question.
So first as to FDA re-inspection no investigations like this or customary on our business if there was a deviation.
We routinely conducted investigation.
We completed our reports and at the next normal inspection cycle for the FDA they will review this along with any other reports that we have developed in our normal manufacturing processes.
So no special FDA re-inspections or approvals are required.
And second with respect to your question on the CDC performance I am not sure I really understood it if you could repeat it or clarify for me that would be helpful.
Great sorry.
when you say what’s the current contract that you have with BioThrax with the delay in sort of sending back those lots to the government in that contract are there sort of penalties for delay in delivery of product? Okay now I understand.
No I think interactions with the CDC the delivery schedules have been quite flexible.
We have adjusted them from time to time and at this point the CDC is looking to secure as many doses as we can deliver in order to satisfy the contract so I don’t see any issues in adjusting delivery schedules under the contract that we presently have.
Nor do I presently anticipate that there would be delays beyond the ultimate delivery date in the contract.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Hi thanks for taking my call I was just wondering if you could give us a little bit more details on kind of what needs to happen for the best case scenario of your no financial impact and then alternatively for the $65 million impact and what gives you confidence that that’s the high end? Yes thank you for the question so the first thing that we need to do is complete the investigation and the outcome of the investigation will inform us as to ultimately what the impact is on the lots that we presently have.
As you know we have identified two lots that have been impacted and I indicated those two lots will be slated for rejection the remaining 13 lots we have absolutely no evidence to suggest that they are implicated in any way in this particle this foreign particle issue so presently I have no basis to conclude that any of those lots would be adversely affected but we need to await the final disposition of the investigation to have a conclusion on that and its really the 13 lots that are driving the ultimate issue with respect to impact your revenue.
So I mean I guess the zero would be if all 13 are cleared and ultimately delivered in the 65 is all 13 of those are ultimately rejected? That is the way we are thinking about it presently that’s correct.
Okay and then I mean I understand and the last question you don’t anticipate the FDA having inspection on this.
Has there been communication already with the FDA about this from you? Yes we have voluntarily advised the FDA to keep them abreast of the issue.
And I mean have they responded to any of that or no? You know I really don’t want to get into the interactions with the agency that we have.
What I would tell you is I would consider the discussions with the FDA to be normal standard and collegial.
Okay and then last question I have believe there may have been – so Eric who I work with has a recollection that there was a similar issue maybe a handful of years ago and is that an accurate recollection and then to can you remind us what that is? Yes we’ve never had an issue like this issue in our history.
This is the first so we are proceeding very cautiously in terms of how we handle it.
We want to make sure that we have full information before making final decisions and I think that’s appropriate.
In terms of prior history I don’t have any recollection like that.
Adam is there anything ringing a bell with you on that? No not on this type of investigation.
I think there was one incident in the first quarter where we didn’t deliver batches but it was unrelated to anything like this result potency standard requalification.
Oh yes we were requalifying a standard at that time that’s right.
Okay.
Right thank you.
Hey thanks for taking my questions.
The zero to 65 in the first quarter effectively for BioThrax you said zero -- the first quarter for BioThrax it’s curiously been one of the lowest quarters around 30 million or 25 million ranges does it ruin that out is the 65 that sort of impacts the second quarter as well? So your recollection about first quarter is deliveries and the magnitude is correct and I am not sure I understand your follow on on the second quarter Bob did you understand that question? The question is how do you get the 65 million in the first quarter or does that necessarily mean that the first quarter to be zero and we could cut second quarter in half as well? So Jim this is Bob.
The zero to 65 is our best estimate of the potential range of impact based on the entire 13 lots that are under quarantine today.
It is not specific to the first quarter it is really a 2015 annual number.
But to Dan’s point as well your recollection of our typical Q1 BioThrax shipments in revenue that’s correct so that will not happen in Q1 of 2015.
Presuming only a fewer lots are impacted I mean this is a situation where you could make up the first quarter of short fall by simply -- you kind of make any more it’s just that take the ones that are currently in quarantine and if they are okay ship them right? That’s correct.
If I think as Marc had commented before if all of these 13 lots at the conclusion of the investigation are released for commercial distribution then we would expect a negligible impact on 2015.
And I do want to reiterate that these in quarantine is really our cautionary approach because we really have no evidence to suggest that the two lots that had particles in them really still over had any effect on any of the other lots in inventory and more over each and every lot that we produce undergoes a visual inspection.
100% visual inspection twice over so two 100% visual inspections and that’s a validated process.
So I have a degree of confidence that those lots really are not affected by what we are seeing with the two lots that were rejected.
Okay great.
So it may well be and not as bad as it could be in the worse case any penalties from the U.S.
government on having the particles in BioThrax? I still remember they are not released lots these in our possession they were never released or in distribution and the answer to your question is no no penalties for having lots that we reject for whatever reason and what we are responsible for is delivering material that we released under the specifications and our quality control and approval standards that are expected of the product.
Last two questions and I’ll step back in queue any talk with the CDC about you have the 75 million doses in the FNS is what they want and obviously soon finally after a long journey you should be able to that in a couple of years you know with the billing to be 5.
Any talk of maybe that 75 becoming 150 or anything like that and then lastly any updates on the award of an Ebola manufacturing contract? Thank you very much.
Thanks Jim so nothing to report in terms of the CDC discussions at this point but we will certainly keep people apprised as those start to develop and as you know we been anxiously looking forward to the end of the Building 55 process as you have and we are looking forward to engaging with the CDC to talk about how best to supply at Building 55.
So we will certainly keep everybody apprised.
In terms of the EBOLA programs we are very excited about the interactions with the agency and we hope to have something to announce in the near term.
Thank you guys for taking the questions.
Hi thanks for taking my question I just want to understand what needs to happen over the next 60 days.
So during the next 60 days are your going to focus on just investigating what if the 13 batch is okay for distribution.
Or are you also going to focus on what has or on what went wrong or have you already established what went wrong and you fixed it? Thanks a lot.
Sure so the investigation is really designed to learn more about the root cost.
How did this happen what is the impact to the product what potential impact it could be to our process what improvements we might need to make.
So it is really an investigation into a root cause to determine definitive or probable root cause for how this occurred.
And then once we understand that to also understand product impact both with respect to the two lots and finally with respect to the lots that we have in our inventory.
So it is comprehensive analysis to understand what went wrong and impact the product.
That's the goal within the next 60 days.
Okay and 60 days and could it be sooner than that or 60 days basically a best case scenario? I don’t think it is a best case scenario.
I think it is a reasonable timeline based on the activities that we have laid out for team.
The team has laid out actually for them to complete.
So I think it is a reasonable time period.
I don’t think it is in this case.
Got it and last question from me so are you currently manufacturing products or are you -- have you suspended any type of manufacturing until the investigation is complete? No we are continuing to manufacture sub lots but we have suspended formulation in filling activities at the CMO.
Got it okay.
Thanks a lot I really appreciate it.
Thank you Jackie.
With that ladies and gentlemen we now conclude the call.
Thank you for your participation.
Please note an archived version of the webcast of today's call will be available later today and accessible through the company website.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Good bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Emergent BioSolutions First Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will be conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time [Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Emergent BioSolutions.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Mally.
Good afternoon everyone.
My name is Robert Burrows Vice President of Investor Relations for Emergent.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss our financial results for the first quarter of 2015 and our outlook for the second quarter and full year of 2015.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Kramer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following Dan and Bob’s prepared comments we will conduct a Q&amp;A session at which time other members of senior management will be available to participate specifically Adam Havey Executive Vice President and President of our BioDefense Division; and Barry Labinger Executive Vice President and President of our BioSciences Division.
Before we begin I will remind everyone that during today’s call either in our prepared comments or the Q&amp;A session management may make projections and other forward-looking statements related to our business future events our prospects for future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent’s current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Please review our filings with the SEC on Forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
During our prepared comments or the Q&amp;A session we also may refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures that involve adjustments to GAAP figures in order to provide greater transparency regarding Emergent’s operating performance.
Please refer to the tables found in today’s press release regarding our use of adjusted net loss adjusted net income EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation between these non-GAAP financial measures and our GAAP financial measures.
For the benefit of those who may be listening to the replay of the webcast this call was held and recorded on 7 May 2015.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today’s call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today's press release may be found on the Investors home page of our website.
With that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions' President and CEO.
Dan? Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call.
During the call today I’ll highlight some of our recent business achievements and then Bob Kramer will finish with a discussion on our financial performance.
I’ll start with the discussion of our BioDefense division.
As you might recall on January 28 during standard quality inspections performed in accordance with customary procedures the company discovered foreign particles in a limited number of vials in two manufactured lots of BioThrax.
In order to determine the source of these particles the company began an investigation into its operations as well as those of its suppliers and contract manufacturers.
On April 22nd we announced the completion of this internal investigation.
Following a comprehensive assessment we identified a supplier component as a most probable root cause.
As a result we are implementing certain targeted corrective and preventive actions in the operations of our suppliers and contract manufacturers as well as in our own operations.
The investigation concluded that there was no impact to any BioThrax loss in distribution or to any of our other products or manufacturing operations including Building 55 operations and plans for licensure.
With the conclusion of this investigation we reaffirmed our financial outlook for full year 2015 which includes the full impact of all decisions on BioThrax lot disposition.
Now that we have resume full manufacturing operations BioThrax lots are being released and scheduled for delivery this quarter.
The downtime that occurred during our internal investigation has resulted in an approximate 90 day lag in delivery and we expect deliveries to be caught up by the end of the third quarter.
Now let me give you an update on Building 55 our large scale BioThrax manufacturing facility.
During our last call I mentioned that we would be meeting with the FDA to discussion our SBOA filing strategy.
We have had ongoing dialog with the FDA about submitting our SBOA in phases with the final submission being the pivotal non-clinical final study report.
This pivotal study is complete and primary end points were met as we announced on February 13th with the only remaining deliverable being the final study report.
This report is targeted for completion in Q4 and is progressing on time.
Given our current status and although the schedule is tight we continue to target regulatory approval of Building 55 in early 2016.
Moving to our BioDefense portfolio in March we received FDA approval of ANTHRASIL that the treatment of inhalational anthrax in combination with appropriate antibiotics.
Achievement of this milestone triggered a $7 million payment to the company under development contract with BARDA.
ANTHRASIL has received Orphan Drug Designation and as a result of this approval the product qualifies for seven years of market exclusivity.
As the only FDA approved polyclonal therapeutic for the treatment of anthrax disease ANTHRASIL becomes the fifth approved product in our growing BioDefense portfolio and continues to be an important part of the U.S.
government strategic national stockpile.
Next let me update you on our latest Ebola efforts.
On March 16th we announced collaborations with Oxford University GlaxoSmithKline and the NIAID.
Until the agreement signed with these organizations we manufactured an MVA Ebola vaccine candidate for use in a Phase I clinical study.
This clinical trial is being supported by a grant from the Wellcome Trust and the UK deployment of International Development.
The study will evaluate the safety of the vaccine as a heterologous boost to GSK’s Chimp Adenovirus type 3 Ebola vaccine candidate.
We manufacture this vaccine candidate at our Bayview Campus in Baltimore Maryland using our proprietary MVHF technologies and capabilities.
That facility has been designated by HHS as one of three centers for innovation and advance development and manufacturing and is designed for search manufacturing of medical countermeasures to address public health threats.
We look forward to announcing the initiation of the Phase I trial shortly.
As we have discussed in numerous calls over the past years we are committed to organic growth to sales of our BioDefense portfolio internationally.
Our strategy involves a two pronged approach that we are employing in parallel.
The first approach is direct sales to government agencies and on this front in the fourth quarter of last year we had our first significant ex-U.S.
hyperimmune product sale from our portfolio.
And during the first quarter of this year we have submitted multiple proposals for individual products as well as counter measure packages for chemical and biological threats.
The other approach that we are employing to international sales is through the European joint procurement mechanism or JPM which is adopted through EUI legislation in 2013.
The JPM is a voluntary system that enables any of the 28 EU member states to pool their demands and procure pandemic vaccines and other medical counter measures against cross border CBRN health threats.
We see this as the European Union’s recognition of the importance of creating and maintaining stock files of CBRN medical counter measures and as an effective mechanism for expanding the presence of our BioDefense products in Europe.
Based on these two approaches we expect to see significant growth in ex-U.S.
sales across our BioDefense portfolio.
Shifting over to the BioSciences Division last week we announced FDA approved IXINITY a treatment of Hemophilia B in adults and teenagers.
With this approval we are very pleased to be able to our patients and healthcare providers an additional choice to better manage this disease.
We expect IXINITY to available to patients by the end of this quarter.
We have also been making progress with our most advanced ADAPTIR platform candidate ES414 for patients with prostate cancer.
As part of the immunoncology space our ADAPTIR platform is a proprietary redirected T-cell cytotoxicity or ITCC approach to treating cancer.
We partnered ES414 with MorphoSys at the end of 2014 and in March we announced the initiation of the Phase 1 study to evaluate the safety tolerability and critical activity of the product.
The initiation of this study triggered a $5 million payment to the company by MorphoSys.
We look forward to clinical data from the study and also working towards additional partnerships along other product candidates based on our ADAPTIR platform.
So operationally we had a very productive start to the year already achieving three of our 2015 goals including securing Anthrasil approval initiating the Phase 1 trial for ES414 and launching IXINITY.
We also remain well positioned and on-track to deliver on our remaining 2015 goals including finalizing the SPOA submission for Building 55 securing a post exposure prophylaxis access indication for BioThrax completing a strategic acquisition that aligns with our core competencies and supports our growth bank and announcing our next multiyear growth plan in the second-half of 2015.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I will now turn over to Bob Kramer for details on our financial performance.
Bob? Thank you Dan and good afternoon to everyone on the call.
I would first like to make some general comments our financial results for the first quarter of 2015 compared to last year.
I will also comment on the balance sheet focusing on our cash position then I will finish up with details related to our 2015 forecast including our thoughts on Q2 revenue guidance as well as the implications for revenues and net income for the second-half of 2015.
For the first quarter total revenues were $63.6 million or $9.7 million above Q1 of last year representing an 18% improvement.
The increase in revenue is primarily due to modest organic growth in sources of revenue other than BioThrax as well as the impact of having the former Cangene operations consolidated with the Emergent for the full quarter of this year.
As you know during the quarter we made no shipments of BioThrax to the CDC due to the investigation which had a significant impact on our overall financial results for the period.
As a point of comparison in Q1 of 2014 we recorded $24.5 million of BioThrax revenues.
As expected the gross margin on consolidated product and CMO revenue for the quarter of 39% is below the normal range of 60% to 70% again to due to the lack of BioThrax shipments during the period.
As we progress through the remainder of the year and as we return to normal shipment schedules for BioThrax we anticipate gross margin in future periods to be well within the normal range reflecting the significant profit contribution of BioThrax.
Gross research and development spend for the quarter was $38.7 million $8.4 million higher than prior year taking into account the offsetting effects of our contracts grants and collaborations revenue our net R&amp;D spend for the quarter was $5.6 million versus $14.9 million last year.
SG&amp;A was higher year-over-year by $4 million due primarily due to the additional costs associated with Cangene operations we acquired in late February of last year.
As experienced in recent years our first quarter financial results typically results in a loss due to the BioThrax delivery schedule and the timing of our annual maintenance shut down activities for our facilities.
For the quarter we realized a GAAP net loss of $21.5 million or $0.57 per share versus $20.2 million loss or $0.55 per share loss in the same quarter as last year.
On an adjusted basis the net loss was $18.8 million or $0.48 per share versus $14.6 million or $0.37 per share in 2014.
In addition EBITDA for the first quarter was negative $19.6 million or $0.52 per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA for the period was negative $18.4 million or $0.50 per diluted share once again reflecting the impact of zero BioThrax shipments during the quarter.
Finally at quarter end our balance sheet continued to reflect a very strong capital position highlighted by our cash balance of $216 million the third largest quarter end balance in our history.
The reduction in our cash balance from year end 2014 was a result of having no BioThrax shipments as well as capital investments as well as payments of taxes and bonuses during the first quarter.
Our financial strength positions us to continue to execute on our growth plan including targeted acquisitions.
Overall our operational performance is very strong during the first quarter despite the 90 day interruption in formulation and fill/finish operations related to BioThrax and we remain confident in our ability to make up for that interruption and still produce financial results in line with our original guidance.
This confidence is based on a number of factors.
First we see the net effect of the interruption to be essentially a compression into the remaining three quarters of 2015 of our original forecast for BioThrax shipments for the entire year.
Shipments that were originally planned for Q1 are now projected to be shipped in Q2 and Q3 and as Dan stated we expect to be caught up with planned BioThrax shipments by the end of the third quarter.
In years past the second half of the year has accounted for approximately 60% of BioThrax annual shipments.
Due to the 90 day interruption we now anticipate that the second half of the year will account for nearly 80% of BioThrax sales during 2015.
Second as of today we are eight months into the BioThrax production year and we’re able to sustain high levels of sub lot manufacturing without interruption through the investigation period.
Third our sub lot manufacturing success rate has been strong over sustained period of time and fourth full manufacturing operations for BioThrax including the key downstream steps of formulation and fill/finish have now resumed.
Accordingly we are reaffirming our forecast for total revenues of between $510 million and $540 million for the year including between $270 million and $285 million of BioThrax product sales and net income between $50 million and $60 million on a GAAP basis and between $60 million and $70 million on an adjusted basis.
We are also forecasting Q2 2015 total revenues of between $105 million and $120 million.
That concludes my remarks and I will now turn the call back over to the operator to take your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Jim Alloy with Levon Company [ph].
Your line is open please go ahead.
Jim please check your mute button.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I was on mute.
Thanks for - well done again on the manufacturing these results so quickly Adam I think and everyone there deserves a well done on that.
Could you walk a little bit through how you can ensure it won’t happen again obviously and is there a way to I know that when you made the Cangene acquisition you brought in a fill/finish capacity at that point would you move BioThrax into that fill/finish to try to avoid this issues going forward? Okay thanks Jim thanks for participating on the call today and thanks for the recognition of the team’s effort.
It really was a very significant effort and I am very proud of what they have accomplished over the past two to three months so I appreciate your commentary there.
So as you might appreciate the team took a very detailed approach to the investigation.
We evaluated numerous potential vectors for how this contaminant or particulate got into the system.
We looked at our own operation we looked at contract manufacturers we looked at suppliers and we identified I think various ways that we can improve the controls around the system not only at the suppliers and CMOs but also within our own operations.
And I think I said in the prepared comments we are now instituting some corrective and preventive actions which we think are quite robust and very broad in scope but overall I think will improve the operation.
So we have a high degree confidence that this truly is behind us.
Of course we have to continue the operations to validate that what we have done demonstrates what our belief is but we do remain highly confident in terms of the actions that we’re putting in place.
In terms of the fill/finish Adam do you want to talk about our plans for migrating fill/finish? Yeah certainly.
So I think as a result of the investigation Jim as Dan mentioned it was kind of a tiered approach and a very detailed approach.
So we’ve always since the acquisition of Cangene planned to and it was one of synergies that we evaluated as we purchased Cangene to move BioThrax fill/finish into the Cangene facility.
So that’s something that we are actively working on and are pursuing and something you are going to see and we’ll probably about as we get closer to approval but we’re actively pursuing that and we think that’s a real important step in our kind of vertical integration if you will of our supply chain.
Okay great.
Maybe a quick follow-up and then I will go back in the queue congrats on certainly getting into - sitting on a pile of cash.
Obviously is there a better acquisition than having it sit in the bank or additional acquisitions happening any new products to slot into the Cangene hospital sales force any comment you can make on timing of something like that? Thanks Jim.
As you know we have a very robust business development process here evaluating any number of candidates both on the BioDefense and the BioSciences side and the cash is a critical component of our ability to execute on accretive and meaningful acquisition targets.
And those targets are in various stages of evaluation some are early some got a bit more advanced.
Our expectation and our goal for the year as I mentioned is to complete an acquisition that can be consisted with our growth plan in terms of revenue generator provide value to the organization whereby we can exercise some of our core competencies and create value which is greater in our hands than in the hands of the seller.
So we remain targeted for doing an acquisition at least one BioSciences and/or BioD and the target is sometime during the course of this year so stay tuned on that.
Great thank you for taking the questions.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Marc Frahm with Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my questions and reiterate congratulations on quickly putting the production issues behind you.
When you did go through this investigation what were the communications with the FDA and has the FDA signed off on whatever changes you are making? Yeah thanks for participating on the call and thank you also for recognizing the team’s efforts.
Yes we were in close contract with the FDA we advise them of the identification of the particles and what we were doing as a result of it.
We also communicated with the FDA on completion of the investigation.
We did show a copy of our investigation report to them in order to release product.
As you know the FDA releases every lot that we produce.
So we are now in standard release mode with them where they are evaluating lots that we produce and going through their lot release protocol and so lots are being released and we are now expecting to deliver as you heard with respect to our Q2 forecast BioThrax slots beginning this quarter.
Okay thanks.
And then you have kind of alluded to this in talk of the acquisition you have the long-term goals and at one point you talked about having a new long-term goals being announced maybe in the middle of the year and I guess maybe that took a back seat to the investigation but is there a timeline for that and then along the same line now that you are starting to having some BioDefense sales outside of the U.S.
do you have a little better of a feel for what’s Building 55 comes online what is the demand out there for BioThrax is? Yeah so in terms of our next growth plan strategy and getting that out to the market for people to understand where we are headed going forward we are planning to announce that in the second-half of the year.
It is pretty advanced in this development we are iterating with the Board but our target remains getting something out to the shareholders and the investment community in the second-half of the year so stay tuned on that.
In terms of international markets and B 55 and all of that our first priority as you might expect is addressing the unmet need but the U.S.
government there is a 75 million dose stockpile deployment we estimated somewhere around 30 million doses right now that is our estimate official estimate.
So our first priority is to complete intervention with the CBC to address that stock deployment and to the extent that there is additional capacity within 55 after meeting the U.S.
government needs and we will start to address the international market.
So I am going to say it is too early to give any assessment on that but suffice to say that we are keenly focused on being in position to supply at 55 and provide all customers with product that we can produce there.
Okay thank you.
I think the other comment that your question raises is the other BioDefense products from international markets on overseeing is a growing recognition the value of the portfolio that we have the hyper immunes the device et cetera and I think an acceptation of the importance and the international markets have having stockpiles and the JPM the joint procurement mechanism that we saw in Europe I think is a clear manifestation of that desire and intend and collective resources of the European union allow them to advance together to establish those counter stockpiles and we are seeing some real momentum in not only governments coming together but also a recognition of the importance of the products that we have to offer and addressing the CBR in threats.
So we are quite excited about that development.
We have been working hard with government agencies to push that along and move that along and we see some real benefit over the coming years with that mechanism being in place.
Okay great.
[Operator Instructions].
Our next question comes from Jessica Fye from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys this is Ryan on for Jessica.
And I guess I wanted to add my congratulations as well for the quick resolution of the manufacturing investigation.
I guess continuing with the discussion on international sales do you sense this to like what the timelines could be and long the review process takes? So I think the timeline for sales really depend on every individual government agency that we deliver they have their own unique processes.
The benefit of having engage with these agencies over the years as we have a pretty good understanding of how they work and what the process requirements might be and how we might be able to interface with key decision makers ensure that the procurement dollars are there and available.
That’s one of our I think core competencies really understanding that procurement process particularly in the European and some of the far-east countries.
So there is no single answer to that question it does depend on what agencies involve and what countries involved.
Until the drug procurement mechanism that is brand new so we are going to have to get some experience there in understanding exactly how that is going to work.
What’s encouraging for me is that member are in fact talking to each other and have bought to the notion of combining their demands so that they can through a single mechanism procure and get delivers on these medical kind of measures that is really an exciting development from our prospective.
Got it and maybe changing subject just a little bit with the recent approval of IXINITY could you maybe talk about your thoughts on a commercial strategy for that product? Yeah thanks for the question.
I am really thrilled that product across the goal when you might recall it came with the Cangene acquisition all the work had been completed and application was submitted.
The team did respond to the FDA’s request for additional information last year didn’t cost anything to really get this product across the goal line and I am really please we are now in a position to start address patient requirement.
I am going to ask Barry to talk about more about the specific with respect to the strategy but it is a little milestone and attribute to the teams effort to get us to where we are there.
Barry? Thanks Dan.
Yeah we have got really excited of commercial operations folks and sales people ready to hit the ground running now that we have approval of IXINITY.
No doubt the factor 9 market is a competitive market but we have a product that every bid is good as any of the other standard acting factor 9 products and we intend to differentiate our offering by differentially partnering with the community.
So it not just about the product it is about the product the people that we have got presenting it and all the programs that are wrapped around it.
One of the specific differences is that Emergent is the only company in the industry that exclusively focused and the Hemophilia B community so those factor 9 deficiency all of the other factor 9 products are in the hands of companies that also have factor 8 product for Hemophilia A which is the vast majority of the market and the part of the market that the Hemophilia B patients feel gets all the attention.
So when you are trying to partner with a community and you have got a meaningful and sincere commitment to the segment of the market that you are serving it tends to resonate much better with the patients.
So all of our programs are wrapped around these Hemophilia B patients and the specific segments of the market where our product matches best.
And we have been able to team of sales people who for the most part have been living in the Hemophilia community for many years if not decades in some cases.
So that’s going to - they come to us bringing their relationships with the providers and the patient advocates in the field and all of that I think is really going to help us earn our share of competitive market even though we are late entrant with a product that is not all that well differentiated.
It is really not just about the product it is about how we are approaching the market and all the things we got wrapped around it.
Great thank you so much for taking my questions.
You bet.
Thank you.
I am showing no further questions at this time I would now like to turn the call back to Emergent BioSolutions for any further remarks.
Thank you - and with that ladies and gentlemen we now conclude the call.
Thank you for your participation.
Please note an archived version of the webcast of today's call will be available later today and accessible through the company website.
Thanks again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Good bye.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today’s program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Emergent BioSolutions conference call to discuss its Q2 2015 financial results and the spin-off of the Biosciences business.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to the company for opening remarks.
Thank you Liz.
Good morning everyone.
My name is Bob Burrows Vice President of Investor Relations for Emergent.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss our financial results for the second quarter and first six months of 2015 our outlook for the third quarter and full year 2015 and our plan to spin-off our Biosciences business.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Kramer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
There will be a Q&amp;A session at the conclusion of our prepared comments.
Other members of senior management will be able to participate.
Before we begin I will remind everyone that during today's call either in our prepared comments or the Q&amp;A session management may make projections and other forward-looking statements related to our business future events our prospects or future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Please review our filings with the SEC on Forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
During our prepared comments or the Q&amp;A session we may also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures that involve adjustments to GAAP figures in order to provide greater transparency regarding Emergent's operating performance.
Please refer to the tables found in today's press release regarding our use of adjusted net loss adjusted net income EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation between these non-GAAP financial measures and our GAAP financial measures.
For the benefit of those who may be listening to the replay of the webcast this call was held and recorded on August 6 2015.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today's call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today's press release may be found on the Investors home page of our website.
With that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions' President and CEO.
Dan? Thank you Bob and good morning everyone and thank you for joining our call.
Today's call have three parts: first I will highlight some of our recent business achievements; then Bob Kramer will discuss our financial performance; and lastly I will finish with an overview of today's press release in which we announced our intent to spin-off the Biosciences business into a separate standalone publicly traded company.
Now turning to our recent business achievements I will start with a discussion of our Biodefense division and with an update on Building 55 our large scale BioThrax manufacturing facility.
We have a meeting set up next month with the FDA to discuss the CMC section of our sBLA and finalize the path for filing.
With all the progress that we have made to date we continue to target regulatory approval of Building 55 in early 2016.
Moving to our latest Ebola efforts last month we were awarded a two-year $19.7 million contract from BARDA to develop and manufacture cGMP lots of three Ebola monoclonal antibodies in cell line at a 2 000 liter scale.
The monoclonal antibodies will be developed and manufactured at our Bayview Campus in Baltimore which is our CIADM site.
The last item to discuss from our Biodefense division is Emergard the auto-injector that we acquired and announced on Monday.
Emergard is a ruggedized military-grade auto-injector device which is designed for intramuscular self-injection of antidotes and other emergency response medical treatments that can address exposure to certain chemical agents and other similar threats.
We have received preliminary interest for Emergard from countries outside the U.S.
and anticipate making our first deliveries in limited quantities in Q4 of this year.
We acquired rights to the device through an exclusive worldwide license agreement with Pharma Consult of Austria which has been selling the auto-injector in limited quantities to select allied nations.
We are excited to have the Emergard auto-injector platform to our portfolio which allows us to supply critical medical countermeasures in militaries and countries across the globe.
Based on internal market research we estimate the annual worldwide market for military-grade auto-injectors to be between $100 million and $200 million.
We intend to build upon our broad capabilities in government contracting and distribution to drive revenue growth.
Shifting over to our Biosciences division last quarter we announced that IXINITY our treatment for Hemophilia B in adults and teenagers would be available to patients by the end of the quarter.
We're very pleased that patients and healthcare providers are now using IXINITY to better manage this disease.
So with this launch successfully underway we look forward to growing IXINITY revenues during the remainder of 2015 and 2016.
On May 19 we announced signing a long-term manufacturing agreement with Prometic Life Sciences.
This deal leverages our manufacturing of plasma fractionation expertise at our Winnipeg facility and creates opportunities for future revenue growth.
Under the terms of the agreement Prometic has minimum purchase obligations that increase over the 15-year life of the contract.
The aggregate total of the minimum fees over the life of the contract is in excess of CAD100 million.
This agreement is another example of our ability to create additional value to our acquisition strategy.
In summary we've had a very strong first half of the year achieving three of our 2015 goals including securing FDA approval of Anthrasil initiating the Phase I trial of the ES414 and launching IXINITY.
We remain on track to deliver our remaining 2015 goals including finalizing the sBLA submission for Building 55 securing a post exposure prophylaxis indication for BioThrax completing an additional strategic acquisition that aligns with our core competencies and supports our growth plan and announcing our next multi-year growth plan in late 2015.
That concludes my business updates.
And I'll now turn the call over to Bob Kramer for details on our financial performance.
Bob? Thanks Dan and good morning to everyone.
I'd first like to make some comments about our financial results for the second quarter of 2015 compared to last year and our performance year-to-date.
Then I'll comment on our balance sheet focusing on our cash position.
And finish up with details related to our 2015 full year forecast including our thoughts on Q3 revenue guidance as well as the implications for revenues and net income in the second half of this year.
Our financial performance in the second quarter and through midyear has been very strong.
The second quarter total revenues were $126.1 million or $15.8 million above Q2 of last year representing a 14% improvement.
The increase in revenue is primarily due to an increase in contracts grants and collaboration revenues related to our various product development initiatives for which we receive funding from third parties.
We also experience increased BioThrax sales during the period as we delivered a total of 14 lots to the CDC reflecting our resumption of full manufacturing in Building 12.
We continue to convert the substantial backlog of sub lots which were produced during the investigation period earlier this year and moving them through to the process of FDA release and shipment.
As a result we remain confident that we'll be able to be fully caught up with our planned BioThrax deliveries by the end of Q3 of this year.
Gross margin on a consolidated product and CMO revenue for the quarter was 70% at the upper-end of our normal range of 60% to 70%.
This again reflects the significant profit contribution of BioThrax revenues during the period.
Gross research and development spend for the quarter was $40.9 million or $3.5 million higher than prior year.
Taking into account the offsetting effect of our contracts grants and collaboration revenue our net R&amp;D spend for the quarter was $5.7 million versus $14.5 million compared to last year.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was higher year-over-year by $6 million due primarily to the launch cost associated with IXINITY and professional service costs to support our strategic growth initiatives.
For the quarter we earned $14.1 million in net income on a GAAP basis or $0.32 per diluted share versus $5 million or $0.13 per diluted share in the same period for 2014.
On an adjusted basis we earned $17 million or $0.36 per diluted share in Q2 of 2015 versus $9.4 million or $0.25 per diluted share in 2014.
Similarly EBITDA for the second quarter was $29.6 million or $0.62 per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA for the period was $31 million or $0.65 per diluted share.
Again reflecting the significant contribution of BioThrax revenues during the quarter.
Turning to the year-to-date performance.
The six month financials reflect the continued fundamental strength of the Biodefense business aided by the company's efforts to managed net R&amp;D costs.
For the six month period of 2015 our GAAP net loss was $7.4 million and includes $5.6 million of adjustments for acquisition-related costs and other non-recurring and non-cash expenses.
After adjustments the year-to-date adjusted net loss was $1.8 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
EBITDA on a year-to-date basis was $9.6 million or $0.25 per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA for the period was $12.2 million or $0.32 per diluted share.
In addition to the strengthening financial performance reflected in our income statement our balance sheet continues to reflect a strong capital position highlighted by our cash balance at the end of the quarter of $215 million.
We also recorded $100 million of receivables at quarter end which in part is a result of the timing of the BioThrax shipments late in Q2.
In addition our inventory balance is larger than normal at the end of Q2 due to the backlog of BioThrax product which serves to further underscore the shift for the second half of 2015 in terms of BioThrax revenues for the year.
As a result of the financial performance through midyear we put ourself in a good position to deliver increasingly strong financial results in Q3 and Q4.
And accordingly we are reaffirming our forecast for total revenues of between $510 million and $540 million for the full year of 2015 including $270 million to $285 million of BioThrax sales.
Further net income we're reaffirming that $50 million to $60 million on a GAAP basis for the year and $60 million to $70 million on adjusted basis.
We're also forecasting Q3 total revenues of between $140 million and $155 million.
That concludes my remarks and I will now turn the call back over to Dan who will take you through the spin-off that we announced earlier this morning.
Thanks Bob.
I'll now walk you through the investors slide presentation that provides an overview of our Biosciences spin-off.
Just a reminder on Page 2 the presentation does include forward-looking information and actual results may differ.
Now turning to Page 3.
As we announced this morning the Board of Directors has authorized management to pursue a tax-free spin-off of the company's Biosciences business into a separate standalone publicly-traded company.
For purposes of this presentation we'll refer to that company as SpinCo.
Upon separation it's expected to create two independent public companies with distinct strategic plans growth strategies and operation on development priorities.
Emergent will remain a global specialty biopharmaceutical company focused on providing specialty products for civilian and military populations that address intentional and naturally emerging public health threats.
SpinCo will focus on advancing a portfolio of immuno-oncology therapeutics based on its proprietary ADAPTIR platform technology.
It will receive a fixed cash contribution from Emergent and also rely upon ongoing revenues from its existing commercial products sales as well as partnership funding.
And finally it will be managed by a dedicated and separate management team as well as a separate Board of Directors.
The spin-off is anticipated to be completed middle of 2016.
Turning to Page 4.
The spin-off has compelling rationale for both the companies as well as its shareholders.
It enables each company to tailor its business strategies to best address the opportunities within its target market and enhances the business focus for both and better aligns resources to achieve their strategic priorities.
It allows each company to pursue distinct capital structures as well as capital allocation strategies as well as enabling each company to target an investor base attracted to its business profile.
Turning now to the benefits to Emergent on Page 5.
This spin-off will establish Emergent as a pure play company recognized as a leader in the Biodefense and Emerging Infectious Diseases fields.
Spin-off also enhances its financial returns and operating margins through reductions in burdens on cash flow associated with oncology R&amp;D and it eliminates sales marketing and G&amp;A costs associated with biosciences business.
And all this allows for greater flexibility and capital allocation including acquisitions that are synergistic with the core business and consideration of stock buybacks and dividends.
Turning to the company profile on Page 6.
The business direction and focus remains the same.
We will be focused on CBRNE Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear Explosive as well as Emerging Infectious Disease markets.
We see this is a well-established and growing market opportunity.
We'll have six products focused in that area as well as a robust pipeline of clinical and preclinical candidates including vaccines therapeutics and devices.
All of the manufacturing capabilities within the company today will remain with Emergent including the cGMP manufacturing and the fill/finish and CMO services at the sites located at the bottom of your screen there.
We will also retain our commercial operations capability with domestic and international distribution and sales.
We'll be focused on three platform technologies including our MVAtor technology which was used for the manufacturing of our Ebola vaccine that is currently in clinical testing; our Hyperimmune platform which is the background for our BAT VIG and Anthrasil products; and Emergard which is the ruggedized military-grade auto-injector device platform that we announced earlier this week.
The leadership for Emergent will remain the same.
Robert Kramer will remain as CFO and I will continue as CEO and Adam Havey will continue as President of the Biodefense Division.
Looking now at the financial profile on Page 7 the spin-off is designed and will result in an enhanced financial performance for Emergent.
We anticipate continued revenue growth both organically and through M&amp;A across all of our revenue streams; product sales contracts grants and collaborations as well as CMO revenue.
One change to highlight is that the CMO revenue will increase as a result of the manufacturing of products for SpinCo.
Those are the commercial products that SpinCo will have after the spin.
The spin-off will also enhance our cost structure and enhance EBITDA performance by the elimination of oncology R&amp;D the elimination of selling and marketing expenses for commercial products as well as the elimination of G&amp;A costs within the biosciences business.
The reduced cost structure increases EBITDA $40 million to $50 million and that's based on pro forma estimates looking at 2014 results.
This picture significantly enhances the balance sheet and allows us to pursue optimal capital deployment opportunities including targeted R&amp;D investments that are aligned with our recognized core focus and capabilities; acquisitions that are synergistic with the core business; and consideration of stock buybacks and dividends.
Turning to the benefits of SpinCo or to SpinCo on Page 8 it establishes SpinCo as a pure play biopharmaceutical company in the highly attractive field of immuno-oncology.
It enables SpinCo to target its investments and operations through the development of bi-specific therapeutics using the proprietary ADAPTIR platform technology that enables increase awareness of the RTCC mechanism of action which we believe is a very promising approach within the immune-oncology field.
And finally it provides greater visibility into its innovative platform technology and its product candidates to attract potential collaborators and partners.
Looking at the company profile on Page 9 SpinCo is well-positioned as a biopharmaceutical company focused on novel oncology and hematology therapeutics to meaningfully improve patient lives.
On spin it will have four commercial products along with the portfolio of clinical and preclinical candidates and significantly the ADAPTIR bi-specific oncology immuno-therapeutic platform technology.
It will have research and development capabilities through the product development operations in Seattle as well as commercial capabilities through the commercial operations that take place centered in Berwyn Pennsylvania.
The organization would be led by Marvin White as the President and CEO.
He is currently a Director with Emergent and has been so since 2010.
He has former leadership positions in the healthcare arena including CFO at St.
Vincent's Health; Executive Director and CFO at Lilly U.S.A.; and positions in Corporate Finance at Eli Lilly.
The remaining members of the management team and the Board of Directors will be identified and announced at a later date.
And the headquarters for this SpinCo operation will be located in Seattle Washington.
Turning to Page 10 with a discussion on the technology that is really core to the SpinCo company and that's the ADAPTIR platform.
It's a promising novel approach for the generation of immuno-therapeutics and it's suitable for producing multiple immuno-therapeutics targeting oncology or autoimmune or inflammatory diseases using different modes of action including redirected T-cell cytotoxicity or targeted cytokine delivery.
It has a successful history of product candidate generation target validation and clinical development.
And in preclinical studies the bi-specific platform demonstrated superior properties in terms of high potency long half-life minimal side effects and antibody-like manufacturing.
Looking at the financial profile on Page 11 the entity will be capitalized to create value with a fixed contribution from Emergent of between $50 million to $70 million.
Ongoing R&amp;D investments will be partially offset by the growing revenue contribution from IXINITY as well as stable contribution from revenues of the mature products WinRho HepaGam and VARIZIG and continued funding from its existing ES414 partnership with MorphoSys.
The company is also well-positioned for future funding to support development programs through new collaborations around the ADAPTIR platform as well as independent access to the capital markets.
Turning now to the transaction details on Page 12.
As I mentioned earlier the transaction is to be structured as a tax free distribution to Emergent shareholders of common stock of SpinCo.
The stock distribution ratio has not yet been determined.
And what is it will be announced.
The timing it is anticipated that this will be completed in mid-2016 and subject to the closing conditions I'll discuss in just a moment.
The corporate name for SpinCo has not yet been determined and once determined it will be announced at a later date.
Emergent BioSolutions will retain its name.
Emergent expects to incur transaction-related expenses of between $2 million to $4 million during 2015 and those costs have been incorporated and included in our reaffirmed 2015 financial guidance.
We expect additional costs to be incurred in 2016 leading up to the spin-off.
The closing conditions include: receipt of a favorable opinion from outside tax counsel; receipt of a favorable private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service; execution of a number of inter-company agreements between Emergent and SpinCo; the effectiveness of the Form 10 registration statement which must be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and final approval of the transaction by Emergent's Board of Directors.
So in summary on Page 13 the spin-off is expected to create two independent public companies with distinct strategic plans growth strategies and operational and development priorities.
It enables Emergent to establish itself as a pure play company in the Biodefense and Emerging Infectious Diseases fields.
It enables SpinCo to establish itself as a pure play company in the highly attractive immuno-oncology field and enables each company to target an investor base interested in its business profile.
That concludes my remarks.
And I'll turn it to the operator to open the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Eric Schmidt with Cowen and Company.
Maybe for Bob it doesn't look like that Bioscience is positioned at a particularly good quarter.
Was there anything amiss amongst those more mature products that you're now hoping to spin-out? And can you give us a sense of maybe what a normalized annual sales rate would be for the products that are going with the SpinCo? So I don't think there was anything of particular note in Q2 for the Biosciences division or the revenue generating products.
As we have talked about before those commercial products are fairly mature.
So we don't expect a lot of growth from those revenue generating products overtime.
In terms of the annualized run rate for those products which will go into SpinCo I think if you go back to prior calls that we had including the initial call on the Cangene acquisition we refer to the fact that in the prior year with the Cangene acquisition that company had total revenues of $127 million for the last fiscal year.
And we talked about how the equal parts between Biodefense what is now the Biosciences commercial revenue and the CMO business it was roughly a-third a-third a-third in that $127 million.
And not much has really changed in that mix over the last year-and-a-half and we don't except much going forward except for the fact that now that we've launched IXINITY we expect that revenue to contribute favorably going forward.
Any sense of what the gross margin is these days on those I don't know $40 million to $45 million or so in Bioscience sales? Again I think as we talked about on a consolidated basis for the former Cangene business their gross margin was in the 30% to 40% range.
We've never really broken out the gross margin components for those three areas.
So for modeling purposes I think that's the best you can do for now.
And then maybe shifting back to the Emergent BioSolutions side obviously you're on track to get Building 55 approved.
And just kind of wondering if you can give us an update on your discussions either with the U.S.
government or other purchasers of the incremental capacity or when you might be in position to say a little bit more about the potential demand here? So we have had initial meeting with the CDC and we anticipate that probably in the fourth quarter further discussions will continue.
And I think they'll heat up as we get into the first and second quarters next year.
So perhaps a traditional route with respect to contract negotiations with CDC beginning usually a year ahead of expiration and then accelerating as we approach the end of the contract.
Our next question comes from the line of Jessica Fye with JPMorgan.
I guess maybe first a bigger picture question on kind of Biosciences business.
Why now? And then a follow-up to that I know you mentioned potentially a dividend would be additional cash flow post-spin.
Can you talk in little bit more detail about how you weigh a dividend relative to continued business development? In terms of the why now there has been quite a bit that's changed between then and today I would say.
First I think there have been significant business developments in the marketplace.
And what I mean by that Biodefense has now really established itself as a growing market opportunity with a focus not only on the traditional Biodefense arenas of anthrax and smallpox and botulinum but really in the emerging infectious disease arena and you've seen that with Pan Flu and Ebola and other emerging infectious disease threat.
So we see the market is maturing and expanding and very attractive.
And we think the investment community is recognizing that.
On the business side we significantly expanded our portfolio on the Biodefense arena to address that expanding market.
So our portfolio has expanded with depth and breadth of the organization internally is now well-positioned to take advantage of that growing market.
And similarly on the Biosciences side there is more than an increased focus now on the potential for immuno-oncology which is really the most exciting field in immuno-oncology research.
And the ADAPTIR platform has now demonstrated itself as very well-positioned to participate in that growing field.
We now have a candidate in the clinic in partnership with MorphoSys utilizing the RTCC mechanism of action which we believe is very promising.
And in order to realize value associated with those operations and really create shareholder value as well as unlock the potential for each of those companies this is an opportune time to announce and implement that spin-off.
The second question with respect to the potential for dividends really what we're looking at is proper allocation of the capital that we will generate in the business.
We see growing revenues as we continue to expand in this market.
We see an improved cost structure and we see generation of increased cash flow that can be used to support R&amp;D as well as M&amp;A.
But we anticipate the potential for additional cash to be available to be deployed for either buybacks or dividends.
The Board is actively evaluating that.
And we have not made a final decision as to timing or amount but we think it's reasonable to put it out there that that's on the table for evaluation and consideration.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Molloy with Laidlaw.
I guess my questions might be instead of why now why not right now why mid-2016? And what's sort of the reasons for that being the best time versus this current quarter or even last year.
Can you talk a little bit about was there any interest from strategic acquirers instead of a spin-out? Now is the time the process however requires a great deal of work.
Documents needs to be prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
There is a review process.
We need to restructure the organization here internally.
Assets need to be transferred in position.
So there is some groundwork that needs to be undertaken before we can actually effective spin-out.
At 12 month time horizon it's really not unusual or unreasonable and that's just how long it takes.
And so the second part of your question in terms of strategic sale so as we look at this we think the best opportunity for creating value for the companies and shareholders is through the spin.
It unlocks the value associated with the ADAPTIR platform and it's potential.
In a sale transaction of course those proceeds don't go directly to the shareholders.
There are shareholders are receiving the common stock and are able to make their investment decision with respect to that enterprise.
And of course any sale transaction is subject to tax at the corporate level so for a number of reasons we think that this is the optimal structure.
Then can you talk a little bit about how much will EBS own if any of SpinCo? And why you guys see them $50 million to $70 million a pretty good chunk of change? The answer to the first quarter is Emergent will not retain any ownership interest in SpinCo.
100% of SpinCo will be distributed to our common stockholders.
With respect to the $50 million to $70 million level it's a really good question.
I'm going to ask Bob Kramer to tackle that one for you.
I think Jim when we looked at a number of factors including some very preliminary SpinCo financial projections and what they will likely do with the business we also looked at Emergent's ongoing sources and uses of cash for the next several years.
We clearly had some discussions with our advisory partner JPMorgan on the level of funding that's customary for these types of transactions and clearly centered on our belief that $50 million to $70 million cash contribution was an adequate number.
It's not an overly conservative number.
It's not an overly aggressive number.
And it allows the appropriate level of funding to support SpinCo's path to near-term value creation.
So it was a bit of an art but we feel very comfortable that's appropriate level.
How does this impact your announced intentions of acquiring another asset? You've been clear you were expecting hoping to do it near-term.
Does this make that more likely or less likely? Does this increase or decrease the size of the transaction that you can now target given this will be moving off the books? It really has no impact at all on our planned strategy of growth to acquisitions or our goal for the year of completing at least one acquisition.
That is consistent with the growth strategy that we've laid out so no impact.
The Ebola contract good to see that that come through and I guess there has been some talking about that and waiting on for a bit.
We all have been.
Is somewhat on the smaller side is there any thinking that there maybe larger contract at some point or is this the type of contract that we should have been expecting and that's kind of it? I'll ask Adam Havey the President of Biodefense division to answer that one.
Essentially as you know and as we've all been kind of looking for and waiting for these passcode requests and contracts to come out I think this is what the government initial strategy is going to be.
I think if you look at the Zmax technology as well as these monoclonal that we're going to be working on I think they're still in the early stages.
And as we work on process development work in bringing those to the clinic I think larger contracts may come in the future.
But I think in the short term given the current status of the vaccine landscape on the Ebola side as well as where these monoclonal are I think this is what we expect for right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Shubin Jha with Southpaw.
I just wanted to ask adjusting at the debt and the convert stays with the Emergent with the spin is there any change in the strike price or how does the adjustment take place there? So the convert first of all stays with Emergent.
None of that will be allocated or transitioned over to SpinCo.
There will be adjustments to the conversion rate and the conversion price.
The calculation is spelled out in the bond document itself.
It's really based on the post-spin value for SpinCo and its relation to the post-spin value of Emergent going forward.
So that map again is spelled out in the documents but there will be an adjustment to the conversion rate and conversion price.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Eric Schmidt with Cowen and Company.
Just maybe another one for Bob on the SpinCo numbers financials.
You've got $40 million to $50 million in EBITDA savings on a 2014 pro forma basis.
I know the company has already had some good success in bringing down the net R&amp;D over of course the last few quarters there.
Is there much of savings on a 2015 basis? And maybe you could just help us understand where those savings are coming from? What kind of SG&amp;A reduction you would have after the SpinCo? So as Dan went through as part of the deck there are a number of categories of cost that we expect to be reduced for Emergent post-spin and those are identified as the R&amp;D cost that are associated with the Seattle site; the sales and marketing expenses associated with the Berwyn Pennsylvania site; the R&amp;D expenses in Winnipeg.
And then obviously we're going to lose Emergent will lose the gross margin impact of the commercial sales products post-spin.
So when we look at all four of those elements plus other factors and try to give some reasonable range of EBITDA impact based on 2014 we got to the $40 million to $50 million range.
Obviously as our planning matures for execution of the spin and other factors are considered those numbers will move around a little bit but that's our best estimate today of what the potential benefit to EBITDA will be generated to Emergent going forward.
Obviously when we get deeper and more mature and thinking around 2016 and going forward those estimates will be adjusted and will be incorporated into any future guidance we give but right now that's our best estimate.
But Bob you've already taken a fair bit of those cost sell on the R&amp;D side haven't you? We have to some degree.
But remember Eric that a lot of the reduction in net R&amp;D over the last six to nine months has been a result of some of the upfront payments that we've received from the partnerships.
So the spend will continue.
We expect to continue to trend down on a gross basis but that $40 million to $50 million number does not include the roughly $16 million in revenue that we booked as part of that MorphoSys agreement last year.
And then one last question on the tax rate side.
Does it impact your Emergent BioSolutions' tax rate going forward? And maybe you could provide just your longer-term thinking on where that tax rate is going to lie out? So short-term they won't have much of an impact Eric on the overall effective tax rate.
Longer-term again as we look to other M&amp;A transactions we are always looking for a more tax efficient way to bring new assets into the company.
So we expect longer-term that that effective tax rate will trend down from the 30% but that's going to be M&amp;A dependent.
Short-term with this transaction there won't be much of an impact on the tax rate.
I'm showing no further questions on the phone lines at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back to Robert Burrows for closing remarks.
End of Q&amp;A Thank you Liz.
And with that ladies and gentlemen we now conclude the call.
Thank you for your participation.
Please note an archived version of the webcast of today's call will be available later today and accessible through the company website.
Thank you all again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Good bye.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participation in today's conference.
This concludes the program.
And you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to your Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be a chance to ask questions and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
And now I’ll turn it over to your host Robert Burrows.
Robert please go ahead.
Thank you John.
Good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss our financial results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2015 our forecast for full year 2015 and our operational goals for the year.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants and in addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi President and Chief Executive Officer and Bob Kramer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
There will be a Q&amp;A session at the conclusion of our prepared comments.
Other members of senior management will be available to participate.
Before we begin I will remind everyone that during today's call either in our prepared comments or the Q&amp;A session management may make projections and other forward-looking statement related to our business future events our prospects or future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent's current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements so please review our filings with the SEC on Forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
During our prepared comments as well as during the Q&amp;A session we may also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures that involve adjustments to GAAP figures in order to provide greater transparency regarding Emergent's operating performance.
Please refer to the tables found in today's press release regarding our use of adjusted net income EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA and the reconciliations between our GAAP financial measures and these non-GAAP financial measures.
For the benefit of those who may be listening to the replay of the webcast this call was held and recorded on November 5 2015.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements relating to topics discussed during today's call so again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today's press release or as presented on this call except as may be required by applicable laws or regulations.
Today's press release may be found on the investor's home page of our website.
And with that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions President and CEO.
Dan? Thank you Bob.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call.
During the call today I'll give an overview of the third quarter financial results provide an update on our previously announced BioSciences business spinoff and highlight some of our recent business achievements.
Bob Kramer Chief Financial Officer will finish with a more detailed discussion of our financial performance.
Let me start with our financial performance for the quarter.
As you can see by our press release earlier today we reported a very strong quarter with total revenues of $165 million a 20% increase year-over-year.
Our GAAP net income for the quarter was $37 million and adjusted net income was $40 million.
That represents a year-over-year increase of 69% and 59% respectively.
As we announced in our press release today we are increasing the lower end of our 2015 revenue guidance and reaffirming our guidance for net income.
Now let me highlight a few of our key business and operational developments.
During our August earnings call we announced our plan to pursue a tax-free spinoff of our BioSciences business into a separate standalone publicly-traded company.
The new company will be called Aptevo Therapeutics.
As we stated earlier in the year the spinoff will enable each company to pursue its own unique and focused growth strategies and plans.
Emergent will focus on biodefense emerging infectious diseases and other public health threats.
Aptevo will focus on the highly attractive immune-oncology field.
We continue to make progress in this transaction and plan to announce the Aptevo board of directors and senior management team in early 2016.
We also anticipate filing the Form 10 with the SEC late in the first quarter of next year with a target to complete the spinoff by midyear.
I will now discuss our progress and our 2015 operational goals.
We have secured two product approvals and launched two new products in 2015.
Our first product approval and launch this year was IXINITY a new treatment for hemophilia B in adults and teenagers.
The launch has gone as planned since we announced approval in April and started shipping product in June.
Both patients and healthcare providers have responded very positively to having this new treatment option available to them and we expect revenues to continue to increase as IXINITY gains market share.
In August we announced the further expansion of our medical countermeasures portfolio with the launch of Emergard a military grade autoinjector.
Emergard is designed for intramuscular self-injecting of antidotes and other emergency response medical treatments that can address exposure to certain chemical agents and other similar emerging health threats.
We have commenced sales internationally to multiple allied governments and we are seeing strong demand.
Further we see significant demand for Emergard in the U.S.
government market and have established our plans to address this unmet medical need.
Another corporate goal for this year is to finalize the sBLA submission for Building 55 our large-scale BioThrax manufacturing facility.
First and critically important the pivotal rabbit final study report has now been finalized with the primary endpoints of lot consistency and non-inferiority all confirmed to have been met.
Further in our recent meeting with the FDA to review sections of our submission the FDA acknowledged that our facility is ready for inspection.
The FDA has also requested that we perform a reanalysis on one of the more than 30 assays used for comparability before filing our submission.
We are pursuing two alternative paths in parallel either of which could address this.
One path could be finished quickly; the other should be completed in the first half of 2016.
Under either scenario we anticipate no adverse impact to our 2016 financial performance as we expect to manufacture BioThrax in Building 55 on an ongoing basis following our expected German approval of the facility in the first half of next year.
That will enable us to deliver doses to the CDC under the anticipated multi-year follow-on contract that would commence in Q4 of next year.
On that point we have had an initial meeting with the CDC to discuss the follow-on multi-year procurement contract to address the stated requirement of securing 75 million doses of an anthrax vaccine for the Strategic National Stockpile.
We are now targeting a follow-up meeting in early 2016 to begin negotiating the next contract.
This is right in line with where we expected to be at this point.
As many of you know 2015 marks the end of our current multiyear growth plan that we announced in 2012.
In summary we are on track to meet or exceed our goals for revenue net income growth and the number of products in our portfolio.
We are particularly pleased with our net income growth.
At the midpoint of our 2015 forecast our net income CAGR over the three-year period exceeds 30% which is more than double our target growth rate.
We are finalizing our next growth plan which will be a five-year plan taking us to 2020.
This plan will be presented in January at the JPMorgan Healthcare Conference in San Francisco in concert with the announcement of our preliminary 2015 financial results and the forecast for 2016.
That concludes my prepared comments and I'll now turn the call over to Bob Kramer for details on our financial performance.
Bob? Thank you Dan.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call.
I would first like to make some general comments about our financial results for the third quarter of 2015 compared to last year and our performance year-to-date.
I will then comment on our balance sheet focusing on our cash position before finishing up with details related to our revised 2015 forecast.
From an operational perspective we had an exceptional quarter.
And in fact our financial performance during the period was the strongest in the Company's history.
For the third quarter total revenues were $164.9 million or $27 million above Q3 of last year a 20% improvement.
The increase in revenue is primarily due to BioThrax sales during the period.
Gross margin on product and CMO revenue for the quarter was 72% which is above our normal range of 60% to 70% and again reflecting the significant product contribution of BioThrax revenues during the period.
Gross R&amp;D spend for the quarter was $41.9 million a $2.3 million decline versus prior year taking into account the offsetting effect of our contracts grants and collaboration revenues.
Our net R&amp;D spend for the quarter was $12.2 million.
This is a significant increase versus prior year and it is the result of the recognition in Q3 of 2014 of $15.3 million in the upfront fee that we received from MorphoSys related to the ES414 collaboration agreement.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was higher year-over-year by $1.3 million due primarily to IXINITY launch costs and professional services to support our strategic growth initiatives including the proposed spinoff of our BioSciences business.
For the quarter our GAAP net income was $36.9 million or $0.79 per diluted share versus $21.8 million or $0.49 per diluted share in the same period of last year.
On an adjusted basis for the quarter we earned $39.8 million or $0.83 per diluted share versus $25 million or $0.54 per diluted share in 2014.
EBITDA for the third quarter was $61.8 million or $1.29 per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA for the period was $63.2 million or $1.32 per diluted share again reflecting the significant contribution of BioSciences revenues during the periods.
Turning to the year-to-date performance the nine-month financials reflect the continued fundamental strength of the core business aided by the Company's efforts to manage net R&amp;D costs and control SG&amp;A expenses.
For the nine-month period of 2015 our GAAP net income was $29.5 million or $0.69 per diluted share and after adjustments our year-to-date adjusted net income was $38 million or $0.81 per diluted share.
EBITDA year-to-date was $71.5 million or $1.52 per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA for the period was $75.6 million or $1.61 per diluted share.
Across-the-board our bottom line performance year-to-date is substantially improved year-over-year.
Turning to our balance sheet it continues to reflect a strong capital position highlighted by our cash balance at quarter-end of $309 million along with an accounts receivable balance of $57 million.
As we have communicated in the past our priorities related to capital deployment will continue to be focused on acquisitions that are synergistic with our core business CapEx in support of our core business and third consideration of stock buybacks and dividends.
Finally as a result of the financial performance year-to-date we are revising our full year revenue forecast by raising the lower end of the range by $10 million so that it now reflects a range of between $520 million and $540 million of revenue.
As for our full year earnings forecast we are reaffirming our previous forecast of $50 million to $60 million of net income on a GAAP basis and $60 million to $70 million of net income on an adjusted basis.
That concludes my prepared remarks and I'll now turn the call over to the operator for the Q&amp;A session of the call.
Operator? Okay.
Great.
[Operator Instructions] I do show just a couple questions in the queue at the moment.
Our first coming from Marc Frahm from Cowen &amp; Company.
Marc please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Congratulations on the quarter and thanks for taking my question.
First on this reanalysis has the FDA made any comments on the two methods and if they like the analysis that you do with the first quicker one does the sBLA go in or do you have to wait for that second analysis to happen? Yeah.
Thanks for joining the call Marc and thanks for the question.
No they are mutually exclusive.
Both would allow us to pursue licensure and submit the application so they are independent and both would be acceptable.
Okay.
And then as we kind of think about moving towards the spinoff you've talked a bit about M&amp;A.
What is the capability to do M&amp;A while you are going through the spinout and then also with the spinout.
If you could give us some – maybe some color on the scale of the unreimbursed R&amp;D how that is going to get split across the two businesses? Sure.
So the first question is a very good question in terms of the ability to spin and fire at the same time and it really does depend on what particular acquisition might be the subject of the deal.
Certainly a product acquisition is different from a full company acquisition.
So depending on what type of acquisition we're looking at our capabilities to integrate will differ.
I think the other thing I would point out is it does take time between negotiating signing and closing a deal.
So I would expect that the spinout would not impact our ability to consummate one or more acquisition transactions whether it's a product or portfolio of products or a company.
Around the allocation of the R&amp;D.
So bob do you want to handle that? Sure.
Marc thanks for the question.
Again I think again it's safe to say that historically our approach to biodefense R&amp;D as we've talked about a number of times on the calls is that we historically have wanted to keep that pretty much expense-neutral.
So we are willing to spend money in R&amp;D as long as it is funded by some type of government contract.
So when you look at historically our net R&amp;D the net is really heavily weighted toward the biosciences portfolio.
So as we talked about a bit on the call on August 6 we kind of outlined what we thought would be or could be achieved in terms of the split in overall impact on EBITDA in that $40 million to $50 million range.
So I think with what we've reported in that kind of guidance you can get a good feel for what to expect going forward.
Okay.
And then one last one.
You mentioned you're going to have a follow-up meeting with the CDC to really begin the contract negotiations early next year.
Do you expect that there will be a notice of intent from HHS and CDC before that or will that come after this meeting? Yeah.
That's a great question.
I don't have an expectation either way.
There are some notice requirements that they must follow before the contract is awarded.
My experience is we can have some discussions with them ahead of any kind of notice coming out but how they actually manage this particular negotiation obviously not in our control.
If it's per history I think we can have discussions with them and extensive discussions ahead of a formal notice being issued.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
Okay.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Jim Molloy from Laidlaw.
Please go ahead Jim.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
On the next U.S.
government contract the next steps do you have a date we expect that? And then one of the things that's been mentioned in the past is should Building 55 get online and actually product above or fulfill the SNS ex-U.S.
sales? Has there been any discussion with potential ex-U.S.
buyers of BioThrax should that come up? And then I guess the last question in this group will be the assay issues that came up are these typical assay issues that would come up for the submission or is this an atypical thing that kind of caught you guys by surprise? Okay thanks for joining the call Jim.
Good to hear your voice.
So in terms of the contract there is no standard.
It really is around reaching final agreement on all the key terms.
They certainly know what the current contract provides for in terms of duration and deliveries and they clearly continue to have an expectation of continued supply.
So I can't give you a definitive date.
We will know a lot more as we engage in the negotiations with the CDC.
Perhaps we will be in a better position to give guidance early next year in terms of likely timeline.
But I think that's probably the best I could say about that.
Ex-U.S.
yes I think the plan as I outlined is we're looking for German approval sometime in the first half of next year.
That will enable us to start triggering the manufacturing operations at Building 55 not only for the ex-U.S.
market but in anticipation of delivering to the CDC.
And that production would be on an ongoing basis.
And the demand we do have orders.
They are limited and now is the time to start looking at the international market and determining how best to address it.
This is only a German approval as we've described in the past and we would want to now expand that approval across Europe through the mutual recognition process.
And we have targeted countries that we've identified in terms of prioritization for that registration.
So it's the beginning and we look forward to expanding that market as time goes on.
And the last on the assay.
So yes I think the 30 assays were all well known to the FDA they understood the parameters.
So this is not something out of the blue in terms of what kind of assay is this and what does it mean? And I would say pretty much ordinary course normal course answering typical questions that the FDA would like to hear responses to.
Got it thank you.
Then a couple of follow-up questions if I could.
Can you talk a little bit one of the things you discussed was a potential acquisition.
Can you talk a little bit about likelihood of that before year-end? Does that still make sense? Obviously we're getting pretty close there.
And then on the Aptevo spinoff is there any chance that might just be – you could find a buyer of that? You're still planning to write a $50 million to $70 million check to Aptevo when you spin them off and is there potential for an acquisition that would sort of avoid you guys having to write that check? So on the M&amp;A we have a number of opportunities that we are evaluating there in various stages.
It would be premature for me to sort of gun-jump and give an expectation.
We are coming up on year-end.
It is a key focus for us as you know as we've said over the years to our growth strategy.
You know you've known us long enough we're very disciplined about M&amp;A and these processes take some time.
So I'm not all disquieted by where we are in the M&amp;A process and we look forward to continuing to build the business through organic growth but as well through M&amp;A.
And on the Aptevo spin we really do believe it's a tremendous value creator for our shareholders.
It creates real opportunity to realize the value associated with the ADAPTIR technology.
It is intended to be tax-free so no consequences to Emergent from a tax perspective.
Shareholders will receive the shares tax-free.
If they see the value that we anticipate could be realized they'll hold it.
If they would prefer to see the cash benefit of the distribution then they can realize that through a sale of the shares.
So I think it provides tremendous flexibility for the shareholders and tremendous value creation for the shareholders as well as for the Company moving forward.
Great.
Last question Dan are you still planning to give them the $50 million to $70 million and the – Bob remind me again if you mentioned it I think you may have on the call what was the driver behind the sort of fairly steep jump in R&amp;D ex-contracts and grants in the current quarter? Thank you.
Yes.
The plan has now changed in terms of funding of the spinoff.
I will finalize those numbers as we get closer to filing with the SEC.
And the R&amp;D question Bob I guess that's yours.
So the steep jump Jim in R&amp;D on a net basis was that the question? Yes.
R&amp;D ex-contract and grants up to $12 million from lower numbers the prior two quarters.
Yes.
So the increase is really reflective of Jim in the third quarter of last year we had about $15.3 million of - associated with the MorphoSys collaboration agreement recognized in the quarter.
So when you look at netting that out in Q3 it's kind of an artificially low number in the third quarter of last year.
Right a pretty good jump from Q1 and Q2 of this year to third quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] So our next question is from Jessica Fye from JPMorgan.
Jessica your line is open.
Hey guys.
This is Ryan on for Jess tonight.
I appreciate you taking my question and congrats on the quarter.
I guess on Building 55 now that you're cleared for inspection I believe that you previously talked about the FDA coming in for a routine inspection for Building 12 sometime at the end of this year.
So are you trying to coordinate those two or has the FDA already come in and inspected Building 12? Thanks Ryan for joining the call.
We have in fact talked to the FDA about trying to coordinate that.
They understand from our perspective that could be preferable.
Preliminary indications were that they thought that might be workable as well but they haven't committed to any timeline either for our inspection or for the inspection of Building 55.
So we're sort of in a wait-and-see mode to see what ultimately happens.
And in answer to your second question no we haven't received our inspection as of yet.
Do you have a -- I mean I know it's difficult to say until it's obviously confirmed but is there a fairly decent likelihood that you guys could do it together just out of efficiency sake or are there two separate sort of processes that you need to follow through in order to coordinate those inspections? Yeah.
I mean it’s really hard to second-guess what the FDA is ultimately going to do.
So I don't want to give you a bum steer on that.
It really is entirely in their court.
We have expressed our desire and view on efficiency for our operation and for their inspectors.
They seem to acknowledge there is some benefit in that but they are as you know free to do whatever they want to do and it's really out of our control.
Okay.
And I guess more of a bigger sort of question would be as we go into an election year you talked about you are going to meet with the CDC for another potential contract but can you provide any comments on your discussions of how you think the government's willingness to continue stockpiling? Yes.
So that's a great question.
I think there has been a renewed awareness and interest and desire of the federal government to not only continue to protect the nation in the areas where they currently are focused in but they are also expanding their focus beyond what has traditionally been the threat areas of concern -- small box and anthrax and botulinum and the like.
So funding is going up.
The scope of responsibilities are going up and what we expect to see is shoring up and expanding the capabilities of the government to protect the nation.
So that is a long-winded way of saying we don't see any change in the appetite or the focus on addressing the threats to the country and doing that through the kinds of countermeasures that we manufacture and supply.
Great.
Thanks so much for taking my questions and congrats on the quarter.
Thank you.
Okay thank you.
I'm showing no further questions in the queue.
I would like to turn it back to your host for any concluding remarks.
Thanks John.
This is Bob Burrows.
Before we conclude my colleague Bob Kramer wants to address the one question earlier.
So sorry Jim you got cut off there before I could respond to your question about the 3Q R&amp;D expense compared to Q1 and Q2.
I think if you look at how the R&amp;D expense has been trending not necessarily on a quarter-by-quarter basis but more broadly on a trailing 12-month basis you will continue to see that come down.
There are ins and outs quarter-over-quarter.
For example earlier this year we had a $5 million payment associated with the initiation of the Phase 1 of ES414 that tends to knock down that earlier quarter number.
So I think again we can look at it quarter-by-quarter but it's going to be a little bit choppy.
But the most important thing is just look at how the trailing 12 months are trending and I think you'll see a good trend there.
Great.
Thanks Bob.
With that ladies and gentlemen that concludes the call.
Thank you for your participation.
Please note an archived version of the call and the webcast of today's call specifically will be available later today and accessible through the Company website.
Thank you all once again for participating and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude your conference.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Emergent BioSolutions Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today’s program is been recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today’s program Mr.
Bob Burrows.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jonathan and good afternoon everyone.
Again my name is Bob Burrows Vice President of Investor Relations for Emergent.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss our financial and operational results for the fourth quarter and 12 months of 2015 as well as our 2016 forecast.
As is customary our call today is open to all participants.
In addition the call is being recorded and is copyrighted by Emergent BioSolutions.
Participating on the call with prepared comments will be Dan Abdun-Nabi President and Chief Executive Officer and Bob Kramer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
There will be a Q&amp;A session at the conclusion of our prepared comments.
Other members of senior management will be available to participate.
Before we begin I will remind everyone that during today’s call either on our prepared comments or the Q&amp;A session management may make projections and other forward-looking statements related to our business future events our prospects or future performance.
These forward-looking statements reflect Emergent’s current perspective on existing trends and information.
Any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Please review our filings with the SEC on Forms 10-K 10-Q and 8-K for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ.
During our prepared comments as well as during the Q&amp;A session we may also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures that involve adjustments to GAAP figures in order to provide greater transparency regarding Emergent’s operating performance.
Please refer to the tables found in today’s press release regarding our use of adjusted net income EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA and the reconciliations between our GAAP financial measures and these non-GAAP financial measures.
For the benefit of those who maybe listening to the replay of the webcast this call was held and recorded on February 25 2016.
Since then Emergent may have made announcements related to topics discussed during today’s call.
So again please reference our most recent press releases and SEC filings.
Emergent BioSolutions assumes no obligation to update the information in today’s press release or as presented on this call except as maybe required by applicable laws or regulation.
Today’s press release maybe found on the Investors home page of our website.
With that introduction I would now like to turn the call over to Dan Abdun-Nabi Emergent BioSolutions’ President and CEO.
Dan? Thank you Bob and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
During the call today I will provide a brief business update and Bob Kramer will discuss our recent financial performance in greater detail.
Let we start with a summary of our 2015 financial performance.
Overall 2015 was a very successful year and we ended the year with a strong fourth quarter.
During the quarter total revenue was $168 million up 14% from 2014.
Our GAAP net income increased by 11% and our adjusted net income increased by 8% compared to the same quarter in 2014.
For the full year total revenues exceeded $520 million a 16% increase over 2014.
Our 2015 GAAP net income increased 71% and our adjusted net income increased 39% over the prior year.
Finally our EBITDA in 2015 was $130 million growing 41% compared to the prior year.
In 2016 we are forecasting continued growth in revenues net income and EBITDA.
The financial forecast that we announced today reaffirms the guidance that we provided at the JPMorgan Healthcare Conference in January.
We plan to achieve our 2016 revenue target based on a number of factors.
First continued BioThrax sales under our existing procurement contract as well as under the anticipated follow-on contract with the CDC; second through anticipated sales of our other portfolio products to the U.S.
government under existing procurement contracts; third through an expansion of our contract manufacturing services in both our Maryland and Winnipeg operations; fourth by securing additional funding for contracts and grants both existing and new; and finally through increasing international sales.
With an expanding product portfolio we see real potential to meaningfully grow our international sales over time.
As a reminder in our recently announced 5-year growth plan we are targeting to achieve at least 10% of our revenues from ex-U.S.
sources by 2020.
Turning now to Building 55 as we previously announced the FDA requested that we perform a reanalysis on one of the more than 30 assays used for comparability before filing our sBLA.
We are on track to complete their request during the first half of the year after which we expect to submit the sBLA.
As a reminder we anticipate a PDUFA date of 4 months following acceptance by the FDA of the sBLA filing.
Moving on to our follow-on BioThrax procurement contract with the CDC we have had a preliminary meeting and exchanges of communication with the CDC on this topic.
The CDC recognizes the importance of the anthrax preparedness and with FY 2016 funding levels we anticipate that a follow-on multi-year contract will be put in place to ensure an uninterrupted supply of BioThrax through the SNS.
As a reminder we do not intend to disclose any specifics or details of our contract negotiations with the CDC until such time as the contract has been completed.
Turning now to an update on Emergard our military-grade auto-injector platform last week we announced that the U.S.
Department of Defense and Battelle has selected Emergard over several other commercially available auto-injector devices to be tested against and developed to U.S.
military specifications for nerve agent antidote delivery.
Emergard is designed to be transported stored and operated in a forward deployed environment and built to ensure successful injection through chemical protective equipment.
The development and testing under this award is expected to be completed in 2016.
And if successful could lead to the procurement of specific products within the Emergard platform to meet U.S.
military and first responder needs.
Finally I would like to provide an update on our planned spin-off of Aptevo Therapeutics our biosciences business.
The spin-off is on track with our receipt of a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS and our announcement of the anticipated Board of Directors and senior management team.
The remaining steps include the filing of the Form-10 with the Securities and Exchange Commission securing SEC clearance of that filing and then final approval by our Board of Directors.
We continue to expect a mid-2016 completion of this transaction.
That concludes my prepared comments.
And I will now turn the call over to Bob Kramer for details on our financial performance.
Bob? Thank you Dan.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining our call.
I first like to make some general comments about our financial results for the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to last year.
I will then comment on our performance for the year compared to prior year followed by comments on our balance sheet progressing on our cash position and then finishing up with some comments about our 2016 forecast.
From an operational perspective we had another exceptional quarter.
Total revenues were the strongest in the company’s history coming in at $168.1 million or $20 million above Q4 of last year a 14% improvement.
The increase in the revenue was primarily due to increased BioThrax sales during the period.
Gross margin on a consolidated product and CMO revenue basis for the quarter was 72% which is above our normal range of 60% to 70% due to increased BioThrax revenues during the period.
Gross research and development spend for the quarter was $32.5 million a $6.5 million decline versus the prior year.
Taking into account the offsetting effect of our contracts grants and collaborations revenues our net R&amp;D spend for the quarter was $7.6 million a significant reduction over 2014.
SG&amp;A for the quarter was higher year-over-year by $14 million.
The two largest components of the increase were a one-time $3.5 million reserve for a potential accounts receivable write-off within the biosciences segment and ongoing cost to support the spin-off of Aptevo Therapeutics.
For the quarter our GAAP net income was $33.3 million or $0.71 per diluted share versus $30.1 million or $0.66 per diluted share in the same period for 2014.
On an adjusted basis we earned $37.5 million or $0.78 per diluted share versus $34.6 million or $0.75 per diluted share in 2014.
EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $58.5 million or $1.22 per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA for the period was $61.7 million or $1.28 per diluted share.
Turning to the full year period our financials for calendar year ‘15 reflect the continued fundamental strength of the core business augmented by our ongoing efforts to manage costs and drive expanded profitability and cash flow generation.
For the year we achieved the following.
Total revenues were $523 million up 16% versus last year.
Gross margin was 69% in line with our expected range of between 60% and 70%.
Net R&amp;D was $31 million which is 8% of our adjusted revenues reflecting the subtraction of grants contracts from total revenues.
SG&amp;A was $148 million an increase of 21% and represents 28% of our total revenues in 2015.
GAAP net income was $63 million or $1.41 per diluted share.
Adjusted net income was $76 million or $1.60 per diluted share.
And finally EBITDA was a $130 million or $2.75 per diluted share while adjusted EBITDA was $137.4 million or $2.91 per diluted share.
Turning to our balance sheet our year end capital position remained very strong highlighted by our cash balance of $313 million along with an accounts receivable balance of $121 million.
As we have communicated in the past our capital deployment priorities remain focused on acquisitions that are synergistic with the core business CapEx in support of that core business along with targeted R&amp;D projects plus consideration of stock buybacks and dividends.
Across the board 2015 performance was substantially improved over the prior year positioning us to achieve our 2016 financial goals which include total revenues of between $600 million and $630 million GAAP net income of between $75 million and $85 million adjusted net income of between $90 million and $100 million and finally EBITDA of between $150 million and $160 million.
This forecast includes the impact of the successful spin-off of Aptevo Therapeutics in mid-2016 and continuous delivery of BioThrax to the CDC under an anticipated follow-on multi-year procurement contract but importantly does not include any estimates for BioThrax deliveries from Building 55 or any estimates or potential new corporate development or other M&amp;A transactions.
Finally first quarter 2016 revenues are projected to be between $105 million and $120 million consistent with what we announced earlier in January.
This concludes my prepared remarks.
And I will now turn the call over to the operator to begin the question-and-answer session of the call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jessica Fye from JPMorgan.
Your question please.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First of all is just on Building 55 and where we stand with getting that online I know you sort of lifted out of guidance it sounds like out of conservatism but can you just help us get comfortable with that kind of building coming online this year and what are the remaining steps? Thanks.
Yes.
Thank you Jessica.
Thanks for joining the call today.
So the process really hasn’t changed at all since the last time we presented it publicly.
I think that was at the JPMorgan Healthcare Conference.
And the FDA has requested as I indicated that we do a reanalysis of one of the more than 30 comparability assays that are out there.
So we are in the process of getting that done high degree of confidence that we will get it done in the first half of the year.
And then subsequently we will file the sBLA.
It is a four month PDUFA clock.
So in the course of that time period whatever steps that need to be taken we expect will be taken.
And so we see a high degree of confidence in getting that building online and approved this year.
So the process has been transparent.
We have given you as much information as we got.
There will be a pre-approval or prior approval inspection in that process as it is difficult.
And back and forth with the agency in connection with our application which is fairly typical.
But there should be no surprise as the agency is pretty well versed and up-to-date on where things stand in the facility.
And it’s a matter of running the jobs and moving it forward.
Okay.
Got it.
And I mean two follow-ups on that.
I think you described sort of a short way and a long way of sort of addressing this last assay question that the FDA had and I as of JPMorgan you hadn’t kind of finalized which route you are going to take has that kind of conversation happened and you will be concerned – confirms which approach you are going to go forward with.
And then also can you just describe how – as you negotiate the next contract with the CDC kind of how do you contemplate assuming Building 55 comes online but what if it doesn’t you have to sort of outline two scenarios when you negotiate that contract how does that work? Yes.
Two excellent questions so let me take your first one first which is the short path versus the long path.
You are absolutely right.
We have prepared and submitted all the information that we believe the FDA needs in order to make a decision on the short path.
We have not heard back from them as to their conclusion.
So for the moment we are continuing the work necessary in order to submit the data that supports the long path forward.
If they come back to us and say what we are satisfied with you provided it’s good enough let’s stop here.
Then the process gets accelerated.
So that’s sort of where we are.
It’s just not heard back from the agency on their assessment of the data that has been submitted.
We have done everything that we can at this juncture.
So we are in a waiting mode with respect to agency evaluation.
On the second question with respect to the contract negotiations you put your finger on it interesting and dynamic point which is what you do with respect to Building 12 versus Building 55.
And we have some pretty concrete thoughts there in terms of how we will handle that.
I prefer not to share that with you because it gets into some of the details of the contract negotiation thinking that we have internally and as you can appreciate it’s important that we keep that confidential as part of this entire process.
But we have thought that through.
And we have some I think some creative solutions to how that could work going forward.
Got it.
Thank you.
If you don’t mind I would like to have just one more.
I think there is a biosimilar company working on like Phase 1 anthrax vaccine can you talk about how you think about the longer term competitive landscape for anthrax vaccine whether you see that as competition at all or level of [indiscernible] comments there? Thanks.
Yes sure.
Well the exciting news with respect to the competitive landscape around anthrax vaccine is the closest competitor is NuThrax.
And NuThrax as you know is BioThrax which is formulated with an adjuvant CPG.
It’s completing the work necessary in order to move to the next stage of clinical testing which is Phase 3.
That’s our product.
And that product has been underdevelopment for quite a number of years.
And we see that as the most exciting opportunity.
And I think the government sees it in that vein as well.
Because it answers the mail on so many of the different touch points that the government is looking for.
Reduction – further reduction in the number of doses down to do two doses very rapid immunogenicity.
So it’s got a nice potency profile which is very important in the pep – for a pep indication a good stability profile.
So we see that as really the product that’s going to raise the bar significantly with respect to follow-on products.
We too as you know have an RPA candidate that’s in development.
The RPAs have been around now since the early 2000.
So we are now approaching 15 years of development of RPAs.
And they really are struggling to get beyond Phase 1.
There are a lot of challenges associated with RPAs.
We know them as well as anybody is that to say that ultimately longer-term something could be developed possibly.
But we don’t see that happening in the next 5 years maybe even 5 years to 10 years certainly within the lifetime of the upcoming contract that we anticipate with the CDC.
So a longwinded way of saying very excited about our competitive positioning in the anthrax in that same space we see NuThrax as really answering the mail there.
And once the government has on NuThrax where it needs to be we think that they are going to be checking the box on anthrax vaccines and moving on to some of the other threats including emerging infectious diseases that need to be addressed.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you Jessica.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Marc Frahm from Cowen &amp; Company.
Your question please.
Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on the quarter.
So with your performance this year on BioThrax sales and next year there has been quite a step-up in revenue coming from Building 12.
I mean this year just expecting two very good production years in a row or has something really changed at Building 12 in terms of the efficiency of the process? And then if it’s the latter if any of that going to translate to what you see as the capacity for Building 55? Yes thank you for being on the call Marc and I appreciate the question.
So yes I think the very successful year is in terms of output from Building 12 and my hats off to the team in Lansing for the work that they have been doing not only in the day-to-day but the longer term work that has been focused on improving the processes there streamlining them and improving the overall output and capabilities of the site production.
So it’s been a combination of several years of process improvement efforts as well as -- a little bit of luck in the production of BioThrax over the last couple of years.
So knock on wood there.
Is that translatable to Building 55? No not really.
They are different scales as you know and so we will have to wait to see what happens when we get into Building 55 in terms of how the process runs but certainly very pleased with the output out of Building 12 and what that has meant for the supplier product to the CDC.
And ultimately I would translate into financial performance.
Okay thanks.
And then following up on Building 55 I think you can cover the basis on the U.S.
approval but part of the opportunity is the ability to maybe sell outside the U.S.
and where do things stand with approval in Europe? Yes thanks for asking that question.
I did not cover that in my prepared remarks.
As we had previously indicated we are expecting approval in Germany of Building 55 in the middle of this year and that remains on track.
So no change there.
And with that we can begin on small sales we expect small scale sales to begin in Europe but importantly that approval will allow us to then move into the mutual recognition process and file for regulatory approval in other EU countries on the basis of that German approval which then further opens the doors for some sales internationally of BioThrax out of 55.
So thanks for raising that question.
Okay.
And then one last one with Emergard I know you guys have mentioned that this year’s supply has already filled out.
So what’s the capacity there from your suppliers to maybe increase supply in future years? And you I think at one point have mentioned the market for that type of product is maybe $100 million $200 million worldwide.
What’s kind of the path to get there? Yes.
I am so excited about the Emergard opportunity.
I can’t tell you it’s really proving to be sort of in access of what we originally thought when we undertook this effort.
So the team has been aggressively looking at the supply chain because we have sold out the capacity for this year and we are already making significant improvements in capacity both capacity of manufacturing in the European side that currently produces it and looking at bringing it into the U.S.
with significantly increased capacity beginning next year.
So we are all over that because the demand is so significant across the globe.
And you can see right now with the announcements that we had last week with the U.S.
Department of Defense selecting Emergard as the platform of choice for further evaluation against their criterion and their specifications.
And that could lead I believe to rather significant market opportunities here in the U.S.
for U.S.
military as well as first responders.
So our efforts right now are expanding manufacturing capacity identifying what are the required APIs addressing the specification requirements for the U.S.
military and trying to increase output sort of towards the latter part of this year into 2017 and beyond.
And right now I am feeling very good about where we stand there.
I don’t want get into specifics about the actual number of units that we can produce.
I consider that to be sort of competitive intelligence that I prefer to keep confidential for our company and our shareholders but we are doing everything that we can to address that market and we see it as a real significant market.
Certainly the $100 million $200 million but it potentially could grow beyond that.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Molloy from Laidlaw.
Your question please.
Hey thanks for taking my question.
I want to follow-up on the ex-U.S.
sales price that seems to be one of the – still one of the bigger black boxes as we look at it.
Can you talk a little bit about how you may characterize your pricing ex-U.S.
I know in the past you said it should be substantially higher any kind of bracket around that? And then any sort of thoughts on what realistically we could expect I mean saw [indiscernible] in the U.S.
could you double it in ex-U.S or half of that any sort of bracketing around that you can give us? Yes sure.
Thanks Jim.
Nice to hear your voice.
Thanks for joining the call today.
So I think high level with what I would like you to think about ex-U.S.
is growing that business to about 10% of our revenues by 2020.
That’s really the size of the opportunity that we are targeting right now.
And it’s across the platform.
It’s not just BioThrax.
We see some real opportunity Emergard every conversation we have with foreign government agencies they are very interested in the Emergard platform and the various products that could be provided under that platform.
So remember this is a platform and it sets the stage for unique product offerings under that platform.
The BAT products the botulism antitoxin also is very high on the radar RSPL AIG.
So it’s across the board which gives me a lot of confidence that we can successfully achieve that greater than 10% target.
So that’s how I would like you to think about it.
Certainly for BioThrax and for really all the products they are not at the U.S.
market level.
Otherwise we would have targeted international sales at a higher percentage than where we ended up.
So hopefully that gives you some guidance as you think about your model.
It does.
Thank you very much.
And another question that often comes up with Ebola you got Zika often the calls come in from the clients can EBS handle that? And I am calling you guys.
When sort of the next whatever the name of the next thing that comes up will be and rather than have us calling and when these sort of things come up what sort of responsiveness does EBS have to sort of turn on the dime or to get active with the government to handle on Ebola to handle on Zika virus handle the next when that comes down? Yes great question.
And as you think about the focus area of Emergent with the spin-off of the biosciences business coming up we are really going to be focusing in on the CBRN but also the emerging infectious diseases space.
So I am glad you have put a spotlight on that.
So you think back over the years we had the pandemic flu.
And as you know now with our ADM facility we have a product that’s in the works that could - and we are expected to produce about 15 million doses of a pan flu product within 4 months of identification of the strain.
Then we saw Ebola hit and we were capped by the U.S.
government at the ADM side to make the Ebola monoclonal being used in as a therapeutic.
And interestingly don’t forget we also had an Ebola vaccine that we produced in very short order based on our MVA technology and that went into a clinic lightning fast as a combination vaccination with the GSK products.
So it was a boost to the GSK prime that that was in development.
And that went into two Phase 1 clinical trials very shortly after we completed production.
So as you think about the next threats coming in the emerging infectious disease whether it’s Zika or Chikungunya or Dengue or whatever it might be we see Emergent very well positioned.
We have platform technologies including our hyperimmune.
And you think about the hyperimmune platform it’s very exciting in that we have 6 approved products on that platform.
So the CMC section is fully baked and fully developed.
And it’s simply a matter of identifying and collecting quality plasma with the right antibodies that we can run through that process.
That process is fairly quick in terms of getting to the stage where we can have a product candidate available for clinical testing.
So the hyperimmune is a very appropriate technology to be used in the emerging infectious disease arena.
We also have broad spectrum antimicrobial the antiviral and the antibacterial technologies that we have both of which are supported by U.S.
government funding right now.
So these are broad spectrums.
They can handle new bacterial infections or new viral infections potentially with some of the candidates that are in those platforms.
And lastly the ADM site where we have very flexible manufacturing and an ability to bring a technology in and manufacture that product for clinical testing.
Whatever the U.S.
government might decide is appropriate.
So very flexible broad-based in an area where we have tremendous strength and an ability to respond quickly and effectively as these emerging infectious disease appear on the landscape.
Thank you.
Well one last question – I guess two last questions.
I know that competitive reasons really can’t say what you are looking at very vocal that you are looking for acquisitions the CBRN space but is it possible to narrow down what areas look most interesting among that sort of that broader swath of potential opportunities and I guess maybe a question for Bob as well if nothing can be met at your price the share buyback makes sense? So let me take the first part and kick the second part over to Bob.
Yes.
With the focus on CBRN and emerging infectious diseases there is a lot of very interesting opportunities out there Jim.
And as you know you have known us for a number of years.
We have a very disciplined process.
And we evaluate technologies and we evaluate products and we evaluate companies all with a very focused lens or prism.
And we are methodical.
We don’t jump quickly.
And my view right now a lot of interesting opportunities and more coming particularly as we look across the CBRN and emerging infectious disease areas.
So I would ask you to be a little bit patient there.
As you know M&amp;A takes time and in our space we want to make sure that we are doing the right deals at the right time with the right values that are synergistic with the portfolio and the programs that we are trying to develop.
I am confident that we will be able to successfully execute on one or more transactions as we move forward in our growth plan.
And it remains a strategic priority for us and I have a high degree of confidence we will be able to do it.
So with that high-level comment Bob maybe I will turn it over to you on the second point.
Sure.
Jim thanks.
Good to hear from year.
So I think we have been pretty consistent with how we want to deploy our capital in that fourth key capital expansion projects to support the core business and our capabilities are report we would support M&amp;A as Dan had described.
It’s extremely important.
And then after those two headwinds met then we will look for alternative ways to return value to shareholders either through a buyback program or dividends.
But it’s going to pretty much in that order Jim.
Great.
Thank you very much for taking the questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Meyers from Wells Fargo.
Your question please.
Good afternoon and great quarter.
So first on the receivables that seemed to take a pretty big uptick and so I just wanted to see what the timing is there I think keeping the people that owe the cash are probably good for it but just want to hear what’s going on behind the scenes and then I have a follow-up? Yes sure.
[Technical Difficulty] Yes.
So David there is nothing unusual about the nature of the $120 plus million receivable balance at year end.
The majority of that is U.S.
government.
So there has never been a problem collecting that.
The timing is usually very quick as well.
So nothing unusual other than the dollar values a bit large but nothing to be concerned about.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Springer from Singular Research.
Your question please.
Hi good afternoon.
Actually you already answered my question that concerned M&amp;A and you answered that for Jim.
So thank you.
Thank you Lisa.
I appreciate your participation today.
And it looks like we have a follow-up from Mr.
Meyers’ line.
Hopefully we won’t have any more feedback? Your line is open.
Great.
I want to find out the follow-on contract with the CDC maybe if you can update that I jumped on of the call late so I don’t know if you have already covered that? So David we did cover that during the prepared remarks and there were some questions about what the contours of that might look like.
But we have had preliminary meeting and a number of exchanges of communication with the CDC.
And I think it’s safe to say the CDC does continue to recognize the importance of being prepared for the anthrax threat.
And with the fiscal year 2016 funding levels we do anticipate a follow-on multi-year contract will be in place to ensure that there is no interruption by BioThrax to the SNS.
We haven’t given any specifics on timing.
And we are – we are not going to really be commenting on the specific details of any of the negotiations that we have ongoing with the CDC until such time as the contract is completed.
At which point obviously we will make an announcement.
Thank you.
And this does conclude the question-and-answer session of today’s program.
I would like to hand the program back to back Bob Burrows for any further remarks.
Thank you Jonathan.
And with that ladies and gentlemen we now conclude the call.
Thank you for participation.
Please note an archived version of the webcast of today’s call will be available later today and accessible through the company website.
Thank you again and we look forward to speaking to all of you in the future.
Goodbye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.