Good day everyone and welcome to the Q1 2011 Equifax Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations.
And with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section of the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in our filings with the SEC including our 2010 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will refer to a non-GAAP financial measure adjusted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax which excludes the acquisition-related amortization expense.
This measure is detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliations included with our earnings release and posted on our website.
Please refer to the non-GAAP reconciliation in our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab on our website for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
In the first quarter we continued to build on the momentum we created in 2010 and we delivered solid financial performance which was in line with our expectations.
We also strengthened our global franchise to better position Equifax for sustainable long-term growth.
Each of the business units continue to make good progress on the strategic initiatives including new product offerings building and acquiring unique data assets and improving the efficiencies of the operations.
For the quarter total revenue from continuing operations was $472.6 million up 7% from the first quarter of 2010 very much in line with the outlook we provided in February.
Operating margin was 23% down slightly from a year ago but up sequentially from the fourth quarter.
Now I'll will spend some time at the back end of my conversation talking about the margin outlook for the second half of the year.
And adjusted EPS from continuing operations was $0.58 up 9% from $0.53 a year ago.
But customer demand for our Analytical Solutions continues to increase.
During the quarter 37% of our online transactions included an analytical component of an Equifax model.
That compares with 31% in the first quarter of 2010 and 23% in the first quarter of 2008 so we're making great progress in embedding analytics into our business.
Our efforts around New Product Innovation continue to make strong contributions to our revenue growth.
Revenue from products launched in 2008 to 2010 which you by now know is our NPI Vitality Index was up 4% when compared to a year ago.
And this is really a noteworthy accomplishment given that we dropped Settlement Services from the Vitality Index because it was a product launched in 2007 very successful product with strong revenue growth.
That's now removed and even with that being removed still up 4% year-on-year and on track to meet our goals for the year.
Our key client program we call it KCP which is focused clearly on the largest U.S.
banks.
Something we launched a little over a year ago as you will recall is making significant inroads in terms of customer penetration share gain and broadening our installed product mix a couple of key points there.
For each client in the KCP program the team has developed detailed plans across business core product opportunities Decision 360 product offerings and deepening our relationships strategically throughout the entire organization.
Second point on KCP for the majority of these clients over 50% of the revenue is from product offerings that are unique to Equifax when compared to our primary credit reporting competitors.
A strong statement supporting our strategy of integrating unique data assets and capabilities in helping our customers solve new problems and help us pursue new growth opportunities.
Third point on KCP with one particular client we have been selected as the sole source provider for instant real-time verification of income and employment which will be integrated into the organization's decisioning platforms for Home Loan and Card business units.
That's a huge home loan force to be integrated now into the Decision platform where something as large as the card and home loan lines of business.
Last point is for another very large client we're developing the framework for a project to analyze bank card transaction data.
The Client's objective is to develop a more compelling insight into consumers' buying behaviors utilizing transactional and credit data enriched by our analytical tools and capabilities.
We're excited about that opportunity.
We continue to make great progress on our international initiatives which we expect will be increasing contributions to our long-term growth.
In India we continue to grow our partnerships and are increasing the number of records in the database.
To date we have signed 153 contributing members and fully expect to reach our goal of over 200 members by year end.
We've also talked a lot about Brazil and its importance to our global growth strategy.
We're nearly complete on our increased staffing targets in investments and I'm very encouraged with our early results.
There are a number of other strategic initiatives underway in this geography which we believe will measurably improve our market position for the long term.
Finally we are starting to globalize our Decision 360 strategy with the acquisition of Workload a U.K.
company that has a very unique database of consumer deposit savings and investment information.
This acquisition should put us in a stronger position to offer customers better insights into consumers' ability to pay a major focus of our customers and the U.K.
regulators.
Data providers include life insurance companies fund managers pension providers and retail banks.
The database covers 5 years of historical information and is updated quarterly and aggregates individual account information at the postal code level which is analogous to what we call ZIP+4 here that amounts from 14 to 20 household range.
This platform will allow us to build out a suite of products over time similar to what IXI does in the U.S.
In fact we have taken a very strong leader from our IXI business in the U.S.
and have relocated him to the U.K.
to help our team over there build that suite of products.
For Equifax the first quarter continued to demonstrate the strength and resiliency of our business model the ability of our business units and functional leaders to deliver strong performance regardless of the business environment or the economic cycle and the increasing respect our customers have for our diverse data assets and analytical capabilities.
Our outlook for 2011 continues to be good growth as consumers gradually increase their market--customers gradually increase their marketing activities.
In this environment I continue to expect solid revenue growth for Equifax throughout the year and improving margins in the second half.
I am going to go through each business unit quickly if I may.
First USCIS will continue to deliver its many data assets and analytical capabilities including the positive data Telco and utility exchange which we talked about in the past along with the investment we've made in Keystone which links the data from the different databases together enabling us to develop and deliver unique Decision 360 products quickly.
For the second quarter we expect the USCIS to grow in the mid-single digit range over 2010.
International is making very good progress in all 3 geographies with solid sustainable growth.
We will also continue our initiatives in Brazil to expand the sales force strengthen our data assets and develop innovative product solutions for our customers.
The second quarter excluding the impact of foreign currency translation we expect the revenue growth in the second quarter to be a mid- to upper-single digit range when compared to second quarter of 2010.
At TALX the core Work Number product verification of income and employment had another outstanding quarter in the first quarter growing strong double digits when compared to the first quarter of 2010.
We expect that solid growth to continue in the second quarter as well.
The opportunity for us is to lessen the dependence of our IRS Form 4506T product to the mortgage cycle by bundling it with other core Equifax products and taking that same offer into other verticals.
This strategy has performed well for the core Work Number of products as you know.
And over time we'll do so for the 4506T product.
It'll take us some time for that to unfold we're working on it aggressively now and expect those benefits to unfold as we exit 2011.
We expect TALX to be flat to low single-digit growth when compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Next one.
Personal Solutions continues to make good progress in growing its subscriber base and increasing the average revenue per subscriber to a higher value product offerings.
In the second quarter PSol is expected to continue delivering low double-digit revenue growth as we increase our marketing spend with a TV ad campaign.
Last for you revenue growth in North America Commercial Solutions again reflects solid double-digit transaction growth in the U.S.
For the second quarter North American Commercial Solutions should deliver low to mid double-digit growth when compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Now I'll turn it over to Lee for some financials.
Lee? Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll be referring to the financial results from continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
You should also refer to the Q&amp;A and non-GAAP reconciliations attached to earnings release for additional financial information.
Our performance for the first quarter was a reflection of a modest emerging recovery in U.S.
credit markets aided by a continuation of the momentum we developed in 2010 through our new product offerings and other strategic growth initiatives.
Compared to the same quarter in 2010 for the first quarter of 2011 consolidated revenue of $472.6 million was up 7% on a reported basis and up 6% excluding the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates.
Operating margin was 23.1% compared to 23.5% for the first quarter in 2010.
And excluding the amortization and acquisition intangibles operating margin for the first quarter was 28.1% continuing in the same range we have delivered in recent periods.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Equifax was $0.46 per share up 9% from $0.42 in the first quarter of 2010.
Excluding the impact of acquisition-related intangible amortization adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax is $0.58 up 9.4% from $0.53 a year ago.
Moving to the individual business units.
U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $181 million up 5% from the same quarter in 2010 and in line with our expectations.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $120 million flat compared to 2010.
Our year-over-year online credit Decision volume trends continue to improve.
First quarter online volume was up 7% compared to 4% growth in the fourth quarter.
A 4% reduction in average revenue per report and some minor changes in non-transaction revenue held revenue flat with the prior year.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $27 million was up 18% compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Both core Mortgage reporting and Settlement Services contributed good growth in the quarter outpacing the Mortgage Bankers Application Index which is down 16% from the first quarter of 2010.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $33 million up 11%.
Both credit marketing services and IXI delivered double-digit growth.
Pre-screening revenue had its third consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
The operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 34.1% down 50 basis points from the first quarter of 2010 as a result of increased investment in our Technology and Analytical Services including acquisition-related amortization.
Excluding these investments margins improved.
International's revenue was $127 million up 9% from the first quarter in 2010.
In local currency revenue was up 6% from a year ago in line with the outlook we provided in February.
By region Latin America's revenue was $60 million up 9% in U.S.
dollar terms and 5% local currency when compared to the same period in 2010.
Revenue performance during the quarter was broad-based with solid double-digit growth in Technology and Analytical Services.
Europe's revenue was $37 million up 11% in U.S.
dollars and 9% in local currency when compared to the same period in 2010.
Both the U.K.
and Spain contributed to the strong growth.
Canada Consumer information revenue was $30 million up 10% in U.S.
dollars and 4% local currency when compared to the same period in 2010.
Continuing strong growth with our fraud products particularly Citadel and high-value Technology and Analytical Services were the principal contributors during the quarter.
International's operating margin was 23.4% down from 24.7% in 2010 continuing to reflect the increased investment in strengthening our franchise in Brazil.
TALX revenue was $99 million for the quarter up 4% first quarter of 2010 below our expectations for the quarter as mortgage activity grew less than we had expected.
The Work Number continues to deliver solid growth with revenue of $53 million up 8%.
Strong growth in pre-employment in government sectors and employer-based verification of income and employment for mortgage more than offset weakness in our 4506T government-based income verification related to mortgage activity.
Tax and Talent Management Services revenue was $46 million up 1% compared to last year.
And the TALX operating margin was 21.9% down slightly from 22.6% in 2010.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $44 million up 12% and significantly ahead of the expectations we had communicated during our fourth quarter earnings call.
Direct-to-consumers subscription revenue was up nicely year-over-year driven by double-digit growth in new subscribers and single-digit growth in average revenue per subscriber offsetting a slight increase in customer churn.
Revenue from transaction products and channel partners also contributed to our double-digit growth.
Operating margin was 28.7% for the quarter up from 25.2% in the first quarter of 2010 as faster-than-anticipated revenue growth more than offset increased marketing spend.
North America Commercial Solutions revenue was $21 million up 10% on a reported basis and 8% in local currency driven primarily by strong double-digit transaction volume growth in the U.S.
The operating margin for the quarter was 24.9% compared to 23.5% in the year ago quarter.
Corporate expense for the quarter was up $1.5 million or 8% compared with the year ago quarter.
And finally our corporate tax rate of 37.9% was up slightly from last year.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Great.
Thanks Lee.
So a few closing comments before we go to some questions you might have.
Reflect back to our February earnings call I talked about delivering a first half performance with revenue growth in the range of 6% to 8% and operating margins in the range of 23%.
I remain very confident in that outlook.
For the second quarter assuming current exchange rates we expect to be squarely in that range of growth of 6% to 8%.
As you also have noticed as you build your models that we anticipate our second quarter tax rate to be consistent with the first quarter and we look at it on a year-over-year basis up by about 250 basis points versus 2010.
And that's because we had a favorable one-time tax settlement in the second quarter of 2010.
We expect EPS from continuing operations then to be between $0.58 and $0.61 a share.
We end with my views in operating margin for the second half underscoring the point I made last call.
I fully expect our operating margins in the back half of the year to improve nicely as we begin to benefit from investments in our strategic growth initiatives that we talked to you about including Technology and Analytical Services Anakam Brazil the U.K.
and some of the new mortgage products that we're building.
And additionally by the way I have a clear line of sight to that margin strengthening I'd just like to see that in the back half of the year.
It's not a hope or a prayer it's a line of sight we have it's very clear.
In addition we're going to carry a very strong revenue momentum in the second half of the year as many of our growth initiatives start to click.
So with that I'd like to turn it over operator if you could to our participants to answer any questions they might have.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Lee when you look at the USCIS investments you made in the quarter can you quantify them for us or normalize the quarterly segment operating margin? We don't normally breakout margins to individual components like that.
I think the acquisition amortization increase is a result of our Anakam acquisition.
It is broken out in the 10-Q which we'll publish later today.
It's just a little bit over $1 million if I recall but by itself it's about 0.5% margin impact.
And let me add to that this is Rick.
We have 2 thoughts.
If you think about the margin in USCIS.
One I mentioned that we made some nice investments in TALX.
If you look at the core non-TALX element of USCIS the core credit piece they actually showed very nice year-on-year margin expansion.
Secondly when you look sequentially at USCIS fourth quarter versus fourth quarter and then you see a slight downtick.
One thing you've got to make sure you remember is the IXI business is cyclical.
And it tends to be back-end loaded with a big chunk of it coming in the second half of the year.
As a result we get a nice margin lift in the third and fourth quarter when you look at it sequentially and you get a margin compression in the first quarter.
So that's the noise going on there.
Inc.</strong> Okay so that's helpful.
So Rick I appreciate the conviction in the back half margin story.
Is it safe to assume that both on a segment and on a consolidated basis that when all is said and done in 2011 that full year margins will be up versus '10 with the trajectory for further improvement as we go out in time? Yes.
It's absolutely yes.
And as I told all our participants on the February call that it's my full expectation that we're in the 24% range as we exit the year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then I know one of the dynamics that's kind of shifting in the business as volume comes back is that mix is moving toward bigger issuers with some adverse effect on price per report.
Is there anything if we were to see a real acceleration in volume if the biggest issuers in this country got more aggressive for example.
Does anything change in the dynamic in that USCIS business? Is there anything we should be worried about in terms of pricing our mix if there were real acceleration in reporting volume? Well the good news in there as you allude to and that is that the -- when we structured this team whenever it was maybe 18 months ago 15 months ago centered on large banks because large banks are going to be winners.
And the great news is that strategy is paying off.
We're growing at a faster rate in those large accounts.
I'm confident getting to the heart of your question Andrew that we can deliver accelerated growth because of that focus on the KCP accounts and still deliver at the segment level and the company level the kind of margins we've talked about.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then one last one if I may.
Share buybacks I noticed you didn't deploy any capital to buy back the stock this quarter.
Is that a function of share price or is there some other consideration? No.
The first quarter is typically our lowest cash flow quarter.
As a result we made a small pension contribution we pay out annual incentives and a couple of other things that happen.
So cash flow in the quarter tends to be the lowest of the year with the $30 million of acquisitions that we did in the quarter and the higher dividend.
We actually net borrowed even without any share repurchase in the quarter we still continue to have a strong level of capitalization.
I think what you can expect in the next couple of quarters when the cash flow is traditionally stronger that unless we see appropriate acquisitions that utilize that that we would be in the market buying stock.
And our next question will come from George Mihalos with Bank of America.
Just want to delve in a couple of things.
As it relates to the Work Number you mentioned getting impacted a little bit by mortgage.
But you also have exposure there to government and I'm just kind of wondering how that line of business has done within the Work Number and how you feel about that going forward given potential cutbacks in entitlement programs and things like that? Yes the nice things about the Work Number we diversified the revenue stream to so many different verticals government being one collection is being another.
We have good growth in the government.
We expect that growth to continue.
In fact government was strong double-digit growth in the first quarter.
Collections were strong.
Pre-employment screening was strong.
So it's not any one segment and the whole goal is to continue to take the Work Number by the way in different verticals.
I mentioned in my comments that one of our KCP banks has integrated the Work Number now into their decisioning platforms for home loan and cards.
That's a huge win for us and big diversification.
So I don't look at any one specific vertical and say how is it going to drive our growth? There's a balanced portfolio in the Work Number and I feel good about that.
George one other thing to note on the Work Number is that we are still at a point where we are penetrating the market for employer records.
Our active records on file were up almost 6% year-over-year.
Our total records on file was up 10%.
So even if you see some ups and downs in individual segments but even if the total were flat in terms of end-market demand by increasing our record count we can grow revenue.
Then we find additional penetration opportunities and that's the strength of the Work Number business model.
Got you.
And then also on the -- as it relates to the OCIS you kind of had a phenomena here that we also saw in the last quarter accelerating report volume but the revenue is kind of staying flat just because of the revenue per report how that mix sort of breaks out.
When do you start to think we'll see more accelerated OCIS  growth? Is that something we'll start to get over the back half of the year on the revenue side? Yes the expectations would be some sometime in the back half of the year.
We might see some revenue growth there.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Then last question for me just on the PSol margins should we still be kind of thinking going forward in the mid-20s? Yes.
Yes.
The fluctuation as you as Trey and his team invest in advertising.
But in aggregate yes you should be thinking it in the 20s.
We'll now take a question from Carter Malloy with Stephens Inc.
The first question is just your comments in guidance.
You guys typically approach guidance with a very conservative angle and I was surprised to see the amount of upside implied both top and bottom line relative to the Street.
So can you just talk about the -- did you exit the quarter that much stronger of run rates versus when you entered it? Just your general confidence with the business at this point? No it is just that all the things that the teams have been building to execute their strategies over the past couple of years is really starting to click and it's just my confidence in our ability to execute.
Some exciting things that on the horizon Carter which we didn't have maybe 3 to 6 months ago we talked about Keystone.
Keystone now is live.
We talked about NCTUE+ and building at that capability throughout 2010.
That's now live.
We talked about bringing the Work Number into large card portfolios.
We've just had a number of really neat things that the team is executing on that gives me confidence not only in the second quarter but at the back half of this year will be good on a revenue perspective and a margin perspective.
Okay.
And then on the Telco and utility positive is that a close exchange or are you guys going to be able to sell that to your external Telco and utility customers? It's a kind of a give-to-get model.
So it is close but we're working with the Board of the Exchange to look at areas we might be able to take that to outside of telecommunications that in no way impedes or competes with the Telcos but adds value to other verticals.
So it will be both.
Okay.
And then on Keystone obviously very exciting to see you guys  integrating all the different data assets you have.
Can you just talk about how meaningful you expect that to be and how long it takes to become meaningful? Well it's going to be a core in the next -- if you're thinking USCIS it's going to be the cornerstone of the NPI growth for USCIS for years to come.
Okay.
And then lastly you guys talked about running some TV ads for PSol.
What are Trey and his team doing differently this time? I know you guys had a run at TV a few years back that didn't sort of produce the metrics you were looking for.
So what's the approach different this time and how much incremental growth you think you're going to drive? Well stay tuned because it comes out I think in May what is it? It comes out next week.
And it's really trying to take a crack at what the consumers' view of managing their credit managing their identity and simplifying that.
It's a cute ad.
It's an impactful ad and we're convinced it's going to hit the hearts and the heads of our consumers in a right way and help trigger more growth.
We'll now take a question from David Togut with Evercore Partners.
Do you expect a 4% decline in revenue per unit in online CIS to persist? I'm not sure if it's 4% but I do expect I expect us to continue to drive accelerated growth at the large banks.
And so for a period of time it is going to be some out of balance which will be rate of revenue growth and the rate of volume growth.
I'm not sure if it's 2% 4% but you'll see some pressure there continuing.
David one thing I would add is if you go back over the last couple of years.
In 2009 our average revenue per unit was actually up 5% or 6% for the year.
In 2010 it was flat.
And we've started this year down 4%.
I think what you're seeing to some degree is fluctuation around a moderate long-term trend as this mix of our customers shifts as we go through the economic cycle.
So to me the 4% is no more doesn't change my long-term view about very modest long-term rate of decline than the 5% or 6% increase of 2009 changes that point of view.
And when you're servicing the large banks is your cost to serve less than it is to serve small banks? Certainly the sales cost is probably slightly less.
Although obviously the large bank is more sophisticated.
We have more expert resources but we probably more than make up for that with scale the scale of the relationship.
I think if you think it through the incremental margin is significant and it's significant for a small account it's significant for a large account.
Okay.
And then just finally Rick you highlighted significant investments in Brazil to boost your market share.
What were the market share trends for your Brazilian business both on consumer credit and business credit in the first quarter? I don't have that off the top of my head.
In general terms David the Brazilian business wasn't performing at the level of expectation I had for the past 18 months or so on both the consumer side and the commercial side.
So we hired a new leader we invested significantly on getting back on the offense on getting more SME clients.
On the commercial side as an example getting more consumer data and all the metrics as I mentioned in my comments are heading in the right direction.
We'll now move to a question from Bill Warmington with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> A question for you on pre-screen activity.
It looks like that had another strong quarter.
I wanted to ask if you're seeing a change in the mindset of the U.S.
banks as it relates to marketing activity? Yes I think we are.
We're seeing the banks wanting to get back in the market and obviously start to grow.
That's why you saw the pre-screen rise.
Banks know that long term they need to grow their portfolios now that they've got the underwriting under control.
And as always we hope that eventually will lead to an increase in the online over time as well which we've yet to see.
Inc.</strong> Are you noticing that they're becoming more aggressive towards doing these programs? It sounded like initially they were very-- they were trying it but they were just dipping their toe in the water so to speak very high...
They are more focused and they're more aggressive and absolutely.
And then it looked like the Mortgage Solutions saw some pretty strong growth despite a pretty weak residential mortgage origination market.
Just want to know if you could comment on what was driving that? Yes we're uniquely positioned in the mortgage market as you're probably aware.
We have a full suite of offerings which puts us in good shape from the front end of verifying employment verifying income deploying a credit file to doing ESS.
So as a result of that we will continue to we expect to continue to outgrow the mortgage index as we have for a number of years.
And Bill if I can add to that one of the things in our U.S.
mortgage reporting is the benefit of some of our new product innovation initiatives.
Our capital markets offering was up nicely.
Our undisclosed debt monitoring product which is a new product was up nicely.
So our pure volumes weren't up as much as our revenue because we're seeing the benefits of expanding our service offering.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
And then final question was if you could comment on how the acquisition market is looking right now.
How your own pipeline is looking and if you feel that there are any segments that you need to fill in at this point? The focus really Bill is on the midsize acquisitions and that pipeline is extremely strong.
It's strong in all the business units around the world.
It's probably as balanced and as deep as far as list of opportunities as we've had since I've been here.
We'll always be thoughtful and strategic in that nature and acquire the ones that make the most sense.
We'll now take a question from Jamie Brandwood with UBS.
Just wondering if I could start by asking about the USCIS growth trends.
Can you just start by letting us know in terms of the Q1 growth of roughly just under 5% year-on-year compared to the Q4 growth of closer to 12% year-on-year.
Has practically all of that slowed down down to the much lower levels of mortgage application activity and the annualization? No I can do the math on the mortgage in a second.
But remember what I just said to someone earlier is the IXI business has a it's back-end loaded.
So they have a very strong fourth quarter compared to a much lower first quarter.
That's normal in their cycle.
So as I eyeball this very quickly that's a big piece of it.
But that wouldn't have much of an impact on the year-on-year trend would it? I mean if it was weak in Q1 last year as well? Yes I thought you said sequentially fourth quarter versus first quarter.
But looking at the year-on-year trend as I say I think in the fourth quarter you were up almost 12% or actually slightly over 12% in the USCIS and that was just under 5% in Q1 year-on-year.
I was just wondering if that..
Again that's driven by a very strong fourth quarter in IXI in 2010 versus a slow first quarter which is normal.
The Mortgage business quarter-on-quarter sequentially is relatively flat.
I mean in terms of your overall commentary of the USCIS growth in the mid-single digits I think you've said for Q2.
What are you baking in for mortgage application activity in Q2? Are you assuming something similar to Q1? A reasonably big level of year-on-year decline or...
No no.
The assumption is that the second quarter index will look much like -- in the second quarter will look much like the first quarter did.
Okay.
All right.
And then thinking about your PSol business Personal Solutions.
What relationship if any does Equifax have with Infineon who I guess to some extent are a competitor in that space? Yes they are a competitor.
That's the relationship.
You don't have any kind of relationship to them as a customer of yours in terms of requirements on your data or use of your data so to speak? Not that I can think of but if we do it's synonymous.
I can't think of any they're a competitor right now.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then very lastly your U.K.
business you mentioned that was a contributor to your 9% growth constant currency growth in Europe.
And I guess therefore that means that the U.K.
accelerated in Q1 versus Q4 which we're not hearing for many U.K.
businesses at the moment.
What was driving the acceleration in your U.K.
activities? Your point is accurate that we are seeing accelerated growth.
We've seen that now for a few quarters which is great.
It has to do with the all-new energized leadership team over there and a lot of new NPI.
Next we'll hear from Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Rick could you just go over some of the puts and takes of the TALX growth expectation for 2Q? Is a lot of it just a tougher comp for year-over-year because of the Mortgage business? Yes the outlook for the second quarter really that's why I mentioned for the year is I expect continued strong growth in the core Work Number the traditional instant verification Work Number that we have.
And that we're going to spend time to diversify the direct 4506T product but with the other core Equifax products and take it to new verticals.
So the Mortgage business has slowed dramatically and the Work Number has been able to offset that through diversification.
4506T was a one-trick pony.
It's a great product and I'm confident with bundling it and diversifying it we'll get that back to growth as well.
So long way of saying the mortgage headwind is squarely in the face of 4506T and far less so in the core Work Number.
Shlomo let me add on the tax side Tax and Talent Management that is a tough compare to last year.
So we do expect upper single digits growth on the Work Number side of our TALX business but tax will probably be down in Q2.
And that's the reason for flattish to very slight growth for TALX as a whole is that really more the tough compare on the tax side.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And we after 6 quarters of basically flat ARDSO you saw a spike this quarter.
Can you just talk a little bit about what's behind that? Yes DSO.
4 to 6 days I think it was.
Yes I don't think there's anything truly systematic.
It's obviously something we're watching closely.
We actually saw some very strong collections at the beginning of April that if we kind of normalized is probably up 2.5 days rather than 4 days but still something that we're just staying very close to and engaging our sales teams with our larger clients and just making sure that we maintain the gains that we actually had during the very weak economy.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then there was a big sequential decline in corporate costs.
I know it's up a little bit year-over-year but can you just compare sequentially what was there last quarter that's not there this quarter in the corporate costs? Yes there is a little bit of a seasonal pattern to our corporate costs.
As you noted last year had the same very low first quarter and then higher in subsequent quarters.
If I look at the sequential from Q -- the fourth quarter of last year to the first quarter one is equity compensation costs.
We have 2 times during the year where we make equity grants and there's a certain one-time hit from those equity grants for anyone who is retirement eligible.
So you get a pop in expense in the quarters where we do equity grants.
Those are the second and fourth quarters.
So you have a couple of million dollar fall off there.
We ended the year strong which affected our management incentive expense in the fourth quarter and starting out the year at a more normalized level.
Our professional fees are a little lower just the timing of certain projects that we're undertaking.
So there are a number of things like that that caused there to be a fairly significant step down from Q4 to Q1 this year just as we had last year.
And the second quarter we'll step back step up just like last year did.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So the seasonality is 2Q and 4Q is what we should expect? I would say the first quarter tends to be light.
The pattern for Q's 2 3 and 4 is a little bit less predictable.
But Q2 and 4 definitely have an added expense due to equity compensation.
And we'll take a question from Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
It's Vincent sitting in for Julio.
I apologize because I jumped on the call late.
I might have missed some of the earlier commentaries.
But I think on the margin side you're still coming into approaching 24% exiting the year.
So I want to focus on the revenue side in this back half of 2011.
First of all are you expecting or is there any room for revenue growth acceleration to maybe toward the top end of the 6% to 8% range? And then secondly if you were going to see some modest revenue acceleration which area should we expect it? Is it the CIS or is it more the international kind of Latin America area where you I think you cited some of the investments that you expect to push for additional market share in the back half of the year? Yes sure.
A couple of points.
One just to clarify the margin.
It's not committed that we will get the margins to 24% or higher in the back half of the year.
So I just want to make that clarification.
Number 2 we've talked about an environment of revenue growth of 6% to 8%.
I'm still committed to that.
And I also in my commentary earlier said we're going to carry good momentum going into the back half of the year on both margin and revenue.
We don't give guidance that far out.
But I think that gives you enough right there 6% to 8% is kind of model that we see for the year on carrying strong momentum into the back half of the year.
And we'll take our final question from Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> So I guess the last couple of questions I have are this: if we adjust for the amortization on USCIS margins this quarter margins are flat roughly year-on-year maybe down 10 basis points? And so that's going to be with us for the remainder of the year.
So I would just want to make sure Rick when you provide this level of conviction for back half margins that it's consistent that USCIS margins will be up as well as international margins as well as TALX margins.
And not just kind of throttling back on international investments? No absolutely.
To be very clear the margin guidance I gave you was the entire company.
First of all it's 24%.
Being specific to your question on USCIS which is the cash cow for this company I clearly expect accelerated and expanded margin growth in the second half of the year for USCIS as well.
LLC</strong> And that means year-on-year growth not just acceleration from the margin we just had? Correct.
LLC</strong> Okay.
It's semantics but it's important to me.
And then the last quarter organic growth was just very strong.
I didn't hear you guys actually give the organic growth this quarter.
If you did I apologize.
If you can just give it again.
We did not give that out.
No.
Acquisition added 0.5%.
Everything else was organic.
LLC</strong> So acquisitions were 0.5% and currency added how much I'm sorry? Yes FX was about 1%.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So 1.5% netted? Okay.
That's all I've got.
Thanks everybody for participating and we'll be around today if you've got any additional questions.
At this point we'll terminate the call.
Thank you sir.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
We do thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Q2 2011 Equifax Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time it is my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations and with me today are Rick Smith our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2010 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will refer to a non-GAAP financial measure adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax which excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and the loss in the merger of our Brazilian operations with Boa Vista Serviços.
Since our Brazilian operations were merged with Boa Vista on June 1 we also present revenue growth excluding Brazil from both second quarter of 2010 and the second quarter of 2011 to provide a clearer understanding of our revenue growth for those segments that will continue to be reported in our operating results.
These measures are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation included with our earnings release and posted on our website.
Please refer to the non-GAAP reconciliation and our investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab on our website for further details.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
As I typically do I'll start the conversation off by giving a high-level overview of the second quarter.
I'll then get into some details some highlights according to the business units and then I'll come back and give you some thoughts on an outlook for the third quarter.
Second quarter we continued our solid broad-based growth and expanded our operating margin consistent with what we told you earlier this year.
The diversity of our strategic initiatives and the strength of our execution continue to pay dividends in what is largely kind of a sluggish economic environment in many parts of the world as you know.
For the quarter total revenue from continuing operations was $487.1 million up 6% from second quarter of last year excluding Brazil which you know we merged and I'll talk about that later in the Boa Vista.
So excluding that total revenue was actually up 7% which is solidly in line with the outlook we provided in April.
Operating margin was 23.5% up from the year ago benefiting from continued operating leverage in many of our business segments for the transaction and our strategic growth initiatives and obviously the merger of the Brazilian operations.
Finally adjusted EPS from continuing operations was $0.61 up 9% from $0.56 last year.
Getting into some of the brief highlights the business units.
When we started with USCIS they continued to experience broad-based improvement in many sectors which has enabled its largest segment Online Consumer Information Solutions to deliver solid growth quarter-after-quarter.
Online Information Services year-on-year volume growth has sequentially improved now 6 straight quarters from a negative 15% in the first quarter of 2010 to a positive 11% this last quarter second quarter of 2011.
Our telco positive database which we've talked to you about in the past is launched earlier this year is also generating very strong customer demand as both installations and commitments are ahead of our expectations.
We also launched a new scoring product based on this database.
At this point we'll exceed our original revenue targets for 2011 and most importantly create a very strong foundation for growth in that unit in 2012 and beyond.
Us sticking with USCIS our Decision 360 initiatives when we leverage the multiple data assets that we have are making a significant part of our new product activities and pipeline.
Through June we're generating revenue from 13 different product offerings many of which were just launched as recently as late 2010.
The mortgage sector you know it it was tough.
And it was tough as we expected.
We told you it would be tough.
It started -- difficult comparisons started in late first quarter and will continue through fourth quarter 2011 but we obviously anticipate the costs should improve nicely as we move in 2012.
Finally in USCIS customers are increasing their usage of our data analytics -- of our analytics solutions to enhance the decisioning process.
During the quarter 39% of our online transaction volume included an analytical component from Equifax model and that compares to 32% in the second quarter of 2010.
Now onto International.
They had great results for the quarter.
When you exclude the merger of Brazil International delivered solid double-digit revenue growth for the quarter.
Let me talk about Brazil for a second and I mentioned this before.
We are really excited about the merger of our Brazilian operations with Boa Vista and expect that this will create a comparable competitor for consumers and commercial companies in a very important and growing economy.
We'll have more to say in the future quarters.
But needless to say we're active.
We're aggressive.
We're working very closely with Boa Vista to integrate these 2 businesses into one combined entity.
Our new management team over in the U.K.
has reenergized that organization.
They have brought innovation and new products and solidly improved customer relations.
As a result they are delivering double-digit growth through the quarter and continue to increase their market penetration in what is a challenging economy.
Excluding Brazil Latin America overall had a very strong double-digit growth driven by strong performance across all geographies.
We've also increased our ownership stake in a very important and growing economy and that is Russia from 28% to 33%.
We're very excited about the growth prospects of Russia short term and long term.
Year-to-date in Russia we are way ahead of plan and expect to have great momentum as we exit this year and go into 2012.
A strong -- on to TALX now strong performance in our online employment and income verification services.
That's the old product we used to call the Work Number very strong growth there double-digit growth.
And that helped to offset mortgage headwinds in what we call the 45060 business.
I mentioned to you last time that we are moving on the 45060 to diversify the revenue stream away from just mortgage much like we've done over that years for the called Work Number.
That's on track.
And our plan is to have that diversification start to unfold as we exit this year which should bode well for the 45060 product as we go into 2012.
Sticking with TALX also we continue to cross sell as we've been doing now for a number of years.
The Work Number product into our USCIS customer base another highlight there is we've just recently signed a very large telco customer.
We'll be integrating the Work Number database into the point-of-sale system to reduce manual reviews of individuals without a credit file.
TALX continues to execute on a number of strategic initiatives that could significantly increase the active record count in the Work Number database.
This will not only broaden the revenue opportunities for TALX but will also benefit the other businesses as we have a larger database from which to draw upon.
More to come on that in the coming quarters.
Moving on to Personal Solutions in the quarter.
North American Personal Solutions had a strong double-digit growth in new subscriber sales in addition to increasing the average revenue per subscriber.
With this quarter's performance Personal Solutions has increased market penetration in each of the last 6 quarters.
We continue to have very good success with our new products and expect the continuation of market share gains as we've experienced in the past.
Finally North American Commercial Solutions had another strong double-digit growth and improved operating margins.
They have now delivered 7 consecutive quarters of solid double-digit growth in spite of a sluggish economy.
That's it for the business highlights.
Let me go to some overview of the overall company and start with something we talked a lot about which is NPI.
You hear me talk a lot about the importance of investing capital.
In New Product Innovation it's one of our more strategic growth initiatives.
New products in their third year -- we call it vitality of mix [ph] so in their third year delivered approximately 2 to 3 percentage points of incremental revenue growth for the company.
In general we're ahead of our revenue targets and have a couple of products that could evolve into very large revenue contributors soon.
We also have a very robust pipeline of new products.
Many of these access multiple data assets and leverage our analytical capabilities to create unique product value solutions for our customers.
The NPI process is being pushed deeper into all of our organizations.
It is becoming a part of our DNA.
With this unique data assets that we have our analytical capabilities and our talent robust decisioning platforms that we've developed we have a rich opportunity and long run rate.
We continue developing high-value product solutions for our customers that will make important contributions to our revenue growth.
Obviously in addition to NPI investing in strategic tuck-in acquisitions has been and will continue to be a part of our strategy to drive consistent long-term revenue growth.
We've built a strong financial and operating discipline to ensure these acquisitions contribute to improving a return on invested capital overtime.
Based on the kind of acquisition opportunities we see in the marketplace today we expect TALX acquisitions to continue to make an important contribution to our competitive positioning and long-term business success while adding incremental value to our shareholders.
Pipeline is as strong now as I've seen in quite some time.
In fact probably as strong as I've ever seen in my tenure here at Equifax.
Let's look forward a little bit now and talk about the balance of the year.
As we have demonstrated for a number of years now the strength of our portfolio of businesses enables us to consistently deliver solid revenue growth and improve the operating performance quarter-after-quarter.
Our success has also enabled us to continue investing in our key strategic initiatives positioning us well while returning value to shareholders in spite of the economic uncertainty.
Based upon the progress we've made with many of our initiatives this year I am confident that we'll deliver revenue growth that is solidly in the range of 6% to 9% for the remainder of the year versus the 6% to 8% revenue growth we indicated earlier in the year.
And that is in spite of the fact that the economy is not going to improve in the second half of the year in my opinion.
And two that our comps versus mortgage last year are much much tougher in the second half of the year which gives you feeling for the core underlying improvement of the rest of our business non-mortgage related.
We'll do that while further expanding our operating margin for the balance of the year.
For the third quarter specifically I'll go through each of the business units now.
For the third quarter specifically USCIS will continue to execute on its growth initiatives leveraging their unique data assets which we call Data 360 with strong customer franchise and NPI.
And for the third quarter we expect low single-digit revenue growth over 2010.
In 2010 our third and fourth quarters as I mentioned before were particularly strong for our Mortgage business.
On the International our market positions in each of our countries where we operate offer many opportunities many opportunities for revenue growth and margin expansion.
For the third quarter excluding the impact of foreign currency translation in Brazil we expect revenue growth to be in the upper single digits to low double-digit range when compared to third quarter 2010.
In TALX we continue to make good progress on increasing our data assets broadening our product offerings and diversifying our customer base.
Given a very strong mortgage activity we experienced last year TALX is expected to grow in the low-single digits when compared to third quarter of 2010.
PSol has been very successful in executing on its strategic initiatives and improving its market penetration.
I fully expect that to continue for the third quarter.
Personal Solutions should deliver low double-digit revenue growth.
And lastly before I turn it over to Lee our North American Commercial Solutions team continues to drive innovation and really execute on a very high level and take market share.
I expect that to continue and then we'll deliver very strong double-digit growth when compared to the third of quarter 2010.
Lee if you would now walk through the financials? Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I will be referring to the financial results from continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
You should also refer to the Q&amp;A and non-GAAP reconciliations attached to our earnings release for additional information.
For the second quarter our performance was in line with the expectations we outlined in April.
As in the first quarter many of our business segments continued to deliver good revenue growth and margin expansion which enabled us to offset continuing weakness in the mortgage sector.
Compared to the same quarter in 2010 for the second quarter of 2011 consolidated revenue of $487.1 million was up 6% on a reported basis and 7% when Brazil is excluded from both years.
Excluding the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates revenue was up 4% or 5% excluding Brazil from both years.
Operating margin was 23.5% compared to 23% for the second quarter of 2010.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Equifax is $0.28 down from the second quarter of 2010 due to the loss on the transaction in which we merged our Brazilian operations with Boa Vista.
Excluding the impact of acquisition-related intangible amortization and the loss on the transaction in Brazil adjusted earnings per share attributable to Equifax was $0.61 per share up 9% from $0.56 in the second quarter of 2010.
A pretax loss of $10.3 million was recognized during the quarter related to the Brazilian transaction which is included in other expense on the income statement.
In addition tax expense of $17.5 million was also recorded in conjunction with the transaction.
Finally during the second quarter we repurchased a little over 800 000 shares of our stock for $31.3 million.
Moving to the individual business units.
Our U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions business revenue was $194 million up 5%.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $128 million up 6% as online credit decision volume trends continue to improve.
Second quarter online volume was up 11% marking 6 quarters of improved year-over-year performance as financial institutions continue to grow their lending portfolios.
Since September of 2010 our online inquiry volume has been up each month on a year-over-year basis.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $27 million was down 6%.
Core mortgage reporting was down as mortgage application volumes continue to decline while settlement services was up slightly reflecting a continuation of our share gains in a challenging environment.
The Mortgage Bankers Application Index was down 13% from the second quarter of 2010.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $40 million up 11%.
Credit Marketing Services delivered mid-single digit growth and IXI delivered strong double-digit growth in the quarter.
The operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 36.5% down 50 basis points from a year ago.
Our International business units revenue was $131 million up 11%.
In local currency revenue was up 4% from a year ago.
Excluding Brazil from both years as we had only a partial quarter revenue in 2011 reported revenue grew 18% and local currency revenue grew 11%.
By region Latin America's revenue was $59 million up 5% in U.S.
dollar terms.
Excluding Brazil reported revenue grew 21% U.S.
dollars and 17% in local currency.
Local currency revenue growth was broad based with healthy double-digit growth in consumer and commercial information solutions Technology and Analytical Services and marketing services.
In Europe our revenue was $39 million up 20% in U.S.
dollars and up 9% in local currency.
This performance was driven by strong growth in our core product offerings as well as the contribution from Workload an asset information company in the U.K which we acquired earlier this year.
Canada consumer information revenue was $33 million up 12% U.S.
dollars and 5% local currency.
As in prior quarters Citadel our premier fraud product and high-value technology in the Analytical Services continued to be the principal contributors to our revenue growth in Canada.
International's operating margin was 26.1% up from 25.4% in 2010 driven by margin expansion in Canada and many of our Latin American countries.
TALX revenue was $96 million for the quarter down 3%.
The decline in mortgage activity largely contributed to this performance.
The Work Number with revenue of $50 million was flat for the quarter.
Double-digit growth in the instant verification of employment and verification of income product offset declines in our BPO activities including the tax transcript 45060 government direct services.
Tax and Talent Management Services revenue was $46 million for the quarter down 5% driven largely by a decline in our Talent Assessment services.
The TALX operating margin was 21.6% down from 23.2% a year ago driven by declines in our BPO services as a result of lower volumes and in Talent Assessment.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $45 million up 12%.
Product pricing volume growth and product mix all contributed to the strong growth during the quarter.
Direct-to-consumer subscription revenue growth was strong up 16% driven by double-digit growth in new subscriber sales and mid-single digit growth in average revenue per subscriber.
Operating margin was 27.7% up from 25.4% in the second quarter of 2010 largely benefiting from improved pricing and mix.
North America Commercial Solutions revenue was $21 million up 12% on a reported basis and 10% local currency driven by double-digit growth in strategic accounts and Data Management and marketing services in the U.S.
Operating margin was 20.9% compared to 20.2% in the year-ago quarter.
And finally corporate expense was down $1.4 million or 5% year-over-year.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Great.
Thanks Lee.
Let me summarize where I think we are for the balance of the year.
I'll give you some comments and some specific numbers on the outlook.
We continue to be very confident on our outlook for the full year that we've communicated to you today.
However the economic -- the outlook for the remainder of the year obviously is predicated on the assumption that the resolution of U.S.
debt ceiling and deficit reduction issues occurs without material disruption of the economy or the credit markets.
It's an issue that's much broader than just Equifax so assuming that is settled without massive dislocation.
For the third quarter assuming current exchange rates and excluding Brazil we expect revenue growth from continuing operations to be up between 6% and 9% with operating margins between 24% and 24.5%.
And with that adjusted EPS and continuing operations is expected to be between $0.61 and $0.65 a share.
We conclude with a look towards the fourth quarter while it is not our practice to give an outlook at this time for the fourth quarter I want to provide you an earlier look into our expectations.
In the fourth quarter we expect revenue growth to be in the upper half of that range of 6% to 9%.
Again that is in spite the fact that mortgage comparisons will be very tough in the fourth quarter as well so the underlying growth is strengthening.
And at the same time as I have communicated to you in the past we expect operating margins to continue to expand into the range of 25% to 25.5% for the fourth quarter.
So operator with that I'd like to turn it over to you to open it up to any questions the participants might have.
[Operator Instructions]  And our first question will come from George Mihalos with Bank of America.
A couple of quick questions here.
Just your thoughts on your capital deployment here given where the stock price is relative to your M&amp;A plans.
Are you favoring one versus the other over the near to intermediate term? Yes when you compare share repurchase to acquisitions the acquisitions you have to take the opportunities that present themselves when we're there.
I think that our investors know we are very selective in making sure the things we do are a good fit with our business and if we're going to be able to get value.
But if they fit the strategy and complement what we do near-term fluctuations and our stock price are not going to have a significant impact on that.
Now having said that our debt-to-EBITDA ratio is a little bit below our longer-term objective.
And as Rick pointed out barring significant dislocation in the capital markets from what's going on in Washington these days and expect that that's going to tend to move back up both because of acquisitions and share repurchase.
Okay and maybe you guys can talk a little bit about some of the strength that you're seeing specifically in that LatAm region obviously the 17% constant currency growth.
How broad based is that? And what is your confidence level that you're going to be able to continue over the back half of the year to grow that business at that type of a level? George it is very broad based.
Every platform we have in Latin America continues actually on a very high level.
We have a great leadership team down there.
Paulino Barros who leads our International operations bring in a new level of rigor and focus on NPI.
And with that I'm highly confident the growth rates we're seeing will continue.
Okay great.
Just last question for me.
Lee the corporate expense was a little lower than what I had modeled for this quarter.
Should we still be looking on a year-on-year basis for sort of the mid-single-digit increase there? Yes.
Yes you should.
Yes that will tend to fluctuate some quarter-to-quarter because we do have various projects in our corporate expense line that can come and go.
So you can see some fluctuation but I think something in the mid-single digit range is probably still appropriate for the year.
Our next question will come from Rayna Kumar with Evercore Partners.
This is Rayna.
I'd like to ask a question on behalf of David Togut.
What factors are driving the continued slowdown in TALX both in the Work Number and in Talent Management? Well Work Number we just talked about a fair amount on the call.
And that is the core number which we -- is the holy grail within the Work Number so is the instant verification online that's growing strong double digit.
It's grown strong now for 4 or 5 years.
The slowdown is driven by what we call 45060 product which is a product that we bought maybe 18 months ago.
I may be off a little bit but I think about 18 months ago.
And that product is only focused today on the mortgage sector.
And you know what's happening in the mortgage market right? So the whole plan there and what Dann Adams and his team were doing is just like the deal with the instant verification Work Number diversifying the applications and revenue streams beyond mortgage.
And as I said in the second quarter that that will take us some time.
Pipeline is there.
The activity is there.
And it's my plan as we exit 2011 we'll have a full broader diversification for 45060 which will bode well.
And Talent Management should have a very strong second half of the year.
There were slowdowns in TSA in the first half of the year.
The diversified revenue streamed away from this TSA and we expect good growth year-on-year in the second half of the year.
Carter Malloy with Stephens has our next question.
Thanks for the color on 4Q.
Just curious what the -- if we are going to have more of a mortgage drag on a year-over-year basis what are the incremental drivers there to accelerate us out on the third quarter both on revenue and margin actually? Well on revenue of all the things we've been talking about -- I think a very very high level of execution across the company number one.
Number two is NPI.
We've talked about this now for a number of years and NPI truly is a huge part of our DNA.
I mentioned in there that just the products that we launched in the last 3 years were giving us 2 or 3 points of growth.
So that's driving the revenue growth.
And with that you get expanded margins.
As I promised you would have in the past really good margin expansion.
We started this year at 23.1%.
We told you we'd get that 100 basis points of improvement x Brazil.
That gets you to 24% and we're going to commit to a 25% to 25.5% for the fourth quarter.
So as you know this model is highly leverageable.
And in the tough years we went through we had a high fixed cost.
That's a drag on your margin.
Now we're starting to execute and grow incremental margin should flow through the bottom line and that's the plan.
So going back over Talent Management TSA is obviously a very large customer there.
But in general how much are your government-related customers as a percent of that business? And what's the expectation to that to accelerate the back half? If you take a look at the entire Talent Management the entire TALX Management business which is the Talent Management and TALX.
On the TALX side obviously a very low concentration on government.
On the Talent Management it's still dependent highly dependent upon the government with the diversifying everyday getting corporate customers up.
At the end of the day though Carter the ebbs and the flows the ups and the downs of specifically the Talent Management piece of the business on the overall enterprise of Equifax is negligible.
Okay and then lastly I just want to return back to the margins.
I mean this is a very impressive fourth quarter we're looking at putting up.
Is there any reason that should moderate and pull back in 2012? Yes you've got cyclicality in our business so you can't just simply take that.
What you should take to the bank is our commitment to get this margin talking about 24% to 26% range.
When you exclude Brazil 25% to 27% range we're executing against that.
You can't take any one quarter because of the cyclical nature of our business and say that is the one right to next year.
And Carter if I can pick up on that.
Several of our businesses tend to have a bit of a seasonal peak in margins in the fourth quarter.
PSol historically we've found is not as fruitful an advertising market because of the competition with holidays and what the customers are really buying at that time of the year our IXI business tends to have a bit of a spike in the fourth quarter just because the timing of when they signed many of their contracts and a couple of other businesses.
So the fourth quarter does tend to be seasonally high but I think Rick's comment about being committed to being in the 24% to 26% range is absolutely appropriate.
Our next question comes from Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
Just to follow-up on Carter's question on the margins.
On the USCIS business NPI is obviously a driver of a lot of the growth we're seeing there.
At what point do we hit the inflection point where we start seeing year-over-year expansion in margins in USCIS as the growth from NPI kind of offset some of the incremental cost? Yes I think as you look at one which is Dan I don't give a whole lot of credence or focus quarter-to-quarter at the BU level.
You're going to have anomalies and changes there.
So the fact that USCIS had a 50 basis point margin compression is not a concern to me nor should the BTU or investors.
In general terms as you see USCIS I expect their margins like the rest of the company to continue to expand as we exit this year and going into 2012 as well.
Great.
And then one of the comments that Lee made on the marketing side at Commercial Solutions could you talk a little bit more about that business? I think it's one that we don't talk about very often just some of the trends you're seeing there.
Yes the team is executing very well.
Alex Gonzalez and his team have done a very nice job there and restructured the organization.
And because that focus and execution and innovation as well in the marketing piece of business as well as the risk piece of the business we'll have a nice growth now for 7 consecutive quarters.
Our next question comes from Bill Warmington with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> On TALX one of the pushbacks we've heard about TALX has been that it's relatively high price point has limited its market opportunity.
But it sounds like that new telco win disproves that and are you guys using a new strategy on that product? Bill it's a great question and the answer is if you think of the core Work Number product it is made up of a product that has many different attributes.
In fact over 50 different attributes.
And as you think about the problem you're trying to solve in some cases you may need all 50 attributes in the mortgage space.
In other applications like telco credit card or others you don't need all 53 attributes.
So I can give a different cut of the Work Number if you will a modified Work Number at a different price point for a much higher volume transaction.
So that's a modification we've made to the Work Number a year or so ago trying to reposition it into higher growth lower value and slower price areas while still protecting the great margin the great value of the true Work Number with 50-some attributes.
Inc.</strong> Okay I see.
And one more question for you then on the New Product side.
What about New Product opportunities at IXI? Have you been seeing any success there and any opportunities on the digital side? The answer is yes on both sides.
Within the IXI if we think of the Data 360 strategy which is taking the core credit file with employment data and income data IXI data and soon to be this platform [ph] data we're be building out new solutions.
So IXI is an integral part of the Data 360 strategy.
It has been for the last year and will continue to be.
Digital marketing yes we launched that.
As you know Bill about a year ago very bullish on that.
It takes us into a whole different dimension and area of growth with different market characteristics in the core credit business work.
So it's already delivering and I'm very optimistic long term with that as well.
Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust has our next question.
This is Rich Cheever on for Andrew.
Just a couple of questions.
First of all on Europe.
You mentioned -- what -- can you say again what the local currency growth was for the Europe second quarter? I think 9%.
Let me...
9%.
Okay and you mentioned a lot of that -- or some of that came from the addition of Workload.
Is there an organic number? We don't break that out.
I think Lee said in his comments think of workload in total terms of Equifax de minimis specific to Europe it does contribute but the core organic growth was strong in Europe.
So it's -- by no means is workload covering up a slow growth or no growth.
Core business in Europe is strong.
Okay excellent.
And you alluded to I guess our collective leadership playing chicken with our economy.
But can you talk a little bit more about the FX hedges that you have in place? And is there I guess a threshold or a fat tail risk in the currency hedges? We don't hedge Rich here at Equifax.
Rich most of our -- each of our country operations has both their revenue and their expenses in the local currency.
And it's very hard to effectively hedge profit quotas [ph] and have an acceptable accounting treatment at the same time.
So our results will tend to move somewhat with foreign exchange which is why we're very transparent about the local currency growth versus the nominal growth.
Next question comes from Jamie Brandwood with UBS.
Rick I just wonder if I could 2 or 3 questions.
I was slightly confused by an earlier answer.
I just wondered if I could ask again with regard to the USCIS margin.
Just going back over my notes at the Q1 stage and I seem to recall an indication that we start to expect to see the USCIS margin expanding year-on-year in the second half of this year.
I didn't know if by that guidance you already meant Q3 or not.
But are you now saying today that we shouldn't expect year-over-year margin expansion in USCIS until 2012? No I did not say that.
Sorry when exactly are you expecting the USCIS margin to start showing year-on-year expansion? Back end of this year.
Back end of this year okay.
And then just on the Personal Solutions business I know it's not a metric that you disclose but maybe you could give us a bit of a feel around your churn rates in terms of subscribers.
So as part of the reason for the strong growth that you're seeing in subscription revenue because you're bringing down the churn rate or is it mainly just because you're winning lots of new subscribers? There are multiple things that we're doing to improve the overall financial model of [indiscernible] and we have been for a couple years now.
The churn rate in general terms over the past couple of years absolutely trended down.
And that is benefit -- but that benefit is not a second quarter benefit but then it started back in probably 2009.
So our ARPU is up and we've been able to manage churn at a very good level.
Then lastly we've seen obviously Experian making some interesting moves into the healthcare vertical via acquisition over the last couple of years in the U.S.
Just wondering what your own views on the healthcare vertical are and how you are addressing it? Yes I looked at a few firms in the past and putting a few firms that they've looked back and I couldn't get my head around those.
It doesn't mean it's a bad deal for them.
It's probably a great deal for them.
Obviously healthcare is an interesting market.
It's a fragmented market.
It's a market that's here to stay.
I've just not found the right deal for Equifax to play in there.
Do you do march indirectly in the healthcare segment in terms of selling data into those kind of providers? It's small Jaime.
It appears there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks operator and thank you all for participating in the call.
We'll be available if you have any additional questions.
And with that we'll terminate the call.
Thank you.
Thank you and that will conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Q3 2011 Equifax Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations and with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in filings with the SEC including our 2010 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will refer to a non-GAAP financial measure adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax which excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and the loss on the merger of our Brazilian operations with Boa Vista Serviços.
Since our Brazilian operations will merge with Boa Vista on June 1 we will also present revenue growth excluding Brazil from Q3 of 2010 to Q3 of 2011 provide a clearer understanding of our revenue growth for the businesses that will continue to be reported in our operating results.
These measures are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation included with our earnings release and posted on our website.
Please refer to the non-GAAP reconciliation and our Investor Relations presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab on our website at www.equifax.com.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Great.
Thanks Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
We delivered what I call another very solid performance in the third quarter a performance that is broad-based and the contribution of our organic growth initiatives continues to accelerate.
All 5 business units delivered revenue growth in the quarter: 3 business units comfortably exceeded and 2 met the expectations we outlined for you during the last quarter's earnings release.
We also expanded our operating margin beyond the upper end of the range that we had targeted for the quarter.
It's clear I think you'll agree that product innovation is an important contributor to our revenue growth.
Our new products are gaining meaningful share with our customers and traction in all the markets where we serve.
As a result our core non-mortgage organic revenue growth has accelerated each quarter this year reaching 7% in the third quarter up from 6% in the second quarter and 4% in the first quarter.
This consistent and strong performance provided a healthy level of cash flow which we've allocated in a very balanced manner.
To date in 2011 we have invested $59 million in CapEx $116 million on strategic acquisitions and investments and in addition to returning $134 million to shareholders through dividends and stock buyback.
For the quarter total revenue from continuing operations was $490.4 million up 4% from the third quarter a year ago.
When you exclude Brazil total revenue was up 8% which is our fastest-growing quarter this year.
Operating margin was 24.8% up significantly from a year ago driven by broad-based improvements in operating leverage and the merger we talked about many times now of our Brazilian operations into Boa Vista.
Finally adjusted EPS from continuing operations was $0.65 up 8% from $0.60 a year ago.
And now as I usually do I'm going to just -- I'll jump into some highlights.
Business unit by business unit I'll give you a quick outlook for the fourth quarter and then Lee will give you the financial details.
I'll start with USCIS.
They continue to make great progress on their Decision 360 initiative which we've talked about now for a couple of years.
Couple of highlights there: we have significantly strengthened our revenue position with a large bank as their primary credit reporting partner signed a 2 -- a new 2-year agreement representing over $20 million in contract revenue.
In addition this client signed a 2-year multi-million dollar agreement for our IXI Wealth Complete Solution.
They also signed an exclusive VOE VOI contract with TALX.
That offering gives you a clear example how our differentiated data assets differentiate us from our competition.
Also during the quarter we completed the migration of a large credit card issuer from a competitor to our platform of consumer credit information products.
This competitive takeaway is a great opportunity for us and we expect it will generate over $25 million in incremental revenue over 3 years.
Despite sluggish bank lending activity our Online Information Services continued to deliver strong growth.
Year-over-year volume was up 9% continuing to reflect strong customer demand for our core product offerings.
As uncertainty in the environment and competition increases our customers' need for more accurate decisioning tools has intensified.
And we expect that to continue for this foreseeable future and position us well due to our unique data assets.
Next our value-added analytics continue to capture customer mindshare.
During the quarter 38% of our online transaction volume included an analytical component of an Equifax model.
This represents eighth consecutive quarter of year-over-year gain in the penetration of our analytical solutions.
Lastly for USCIS is the successfully leveraging its diverse data assets and enter new areas of decisioning value chains broadening penetration with our new large customer segments gaining share and creating demand for new decisioning applications.
For example for our telco and utility customers our NPI initiatives have resulted now in contracts signed over just the past few months representing approximately $22 million in incremental new revenue for 2012.
Move on to International.
In International strong growth in all 3 geographies reflects continued progress across a broad range of strategic initiatives.
All 3 geographies continue to penetrate the customer base with core product offerings in credit information analytics and decisioning platforms while also made strategic investments that expand our footprint in Latin America and increased our ownership in Russia.
International continues to drive revenue growth in new product innovation with over 14% of revenue this year from products launched in 2008 '09 and 2010.
On to Brazil.
Our investment in Boa Vista has created much stronger competitor in Brazil.
Through this investment and future investments we expect 3 or 4 things: One to participate in double-digit revenue growth over the next 5 to 10 years; two further leverage our current investment in new products decisioning platforms and technology with a much broader and richer base of consumer information; and three benefit from Boa Vista's strong customer relationships particularly with the large financial institutions where they had stronger relationships than we did at Equifax; finally the integration of operations into Boa Vista is on schedule and in line with all of our expectations.
On to Europe.
Europe had a very strong quarter of double-digit revenue growth as we continue to deepen our relationships with existing customers introduce new product offerings that enhance customers' decision-making activities and broaden our unique data assets as we did with the acquisition of Workload earlier this year.
On to TALX.
TALX successfully completed 2 very important strategic objectives during the quarter with the acquisition of Data Vision and our recently closed acquisition of eThority.
These 2 companies broadened our service offerings to both employers  and verifiers while further strengthening our market position.
I'll give you a little insight on both.
First Data Vision.
They are going to enable us to provide extremely cost-effective end-to-end deployment and income verification services to all of our customers.
The range of capabilities start with the Work Number most automated and cost-effective service continuing them to the IRS 4506-T tax return information and ending with manual verification of employees of companies that we don't have on the Work Number database.
Simply said what Data Vision has is they've developed an extremely flexible easy-to-install workflow management software that can be easily adapted to many different data sources.
As a result our manual verification services can be delivered more cost-effectively than any of our less automated competitors.
Our next eThority.
They broaden our service offerings to employers leveraging our core competency in analytics and giving us the ability to introduce new analytical solutions TALX customer base.
These high-value services will further differentiate us in the marketplace resulting in higher retention rate and accelerate growth of the Work Number database.
On the PSoL.
North America Personal Solutions has  developed a great rigor and discipline that it executes on its strategic initiatives.
Three straight quarters of solid double-digit growth and 6 quarters of year-over-year margin improvement is being driven by relentless focus on 4 areas: One improving its engagement with consumers; two continually driving improvements in key operating levers such as churn conversion and customer lifetime value; three increasing the return on marketing spend; and four like all other business units launching new products that continue to enable engage and empower the consumer to make better decisions -- financial decisions.
Finally North American (sic) [America] Commercial Solutions continues to win share in the marketplace with another quarter of strong double-digit growth.
We have launched several new products and we'll continue to feel that growth in the fourth quarter and beyond.
We've created great synergies with our IXI business when we launched small business assets which leverages $2 trillion of investable assets reported in the IXI database deliver additional information -- informational value for our customers' targeted marketing initiatives.
We also launched QTC (quote-to-cash) Advantage a premier decisioning platform for non-FI customers which is a direct competitive alternative to both of our major competitors' product offerings in this space.
QTC Advantage is an extremely user-friendly customizable system that helps customers manage their accounts receivables more effectively improving their cash flow and minimizing risk.
Finally Lending Trends Benchmarking was introduced in our Commercial Solutions business.
This product compares the portfolio of an individual institution with the market as a whole to identify trends risks and opportunities.
The institution can then develop a more effective portfolio strategy that will maximize their web on opportunities while minimizing the inherent risk of the portfolio.
As a company our performance this quarter again demonstrates the culture we have here a culture of accountability; accountability to ourselves accountability to our customers and accountability to our shareholders.
Despite what has become a continuously sluggish business environment this focus on execution has enabled us to deliver very strong financial results in 2011 and more importantly position us for continues solid growth in 2012 and beyond.
We're going to continue to develop -- to deliver solid revenue growth in all of our businesses focused on winning share with unique products and services improving our operating margins and generating sufficient cash to satisfy our investment opportunities while also meeting our commitment to our shareholders.
I'll end before I turn it over to Lee with a quick look at the fourth quarter and I'll give you some insights where I think is -- yes that's it then we'll turn it over to Lee.
USCIS online volume trends are expected to improve modestly in the fourth quarter in addition to an increased level of revenue from positive telco database and NPI.
For the upcoming quarter we expect USCIS to deliver high single to low double-digit revenue growth versus fourth quarter of 2010.
International.
We'll continue delivering strong revenue and operating margin results for the fourth quarter.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation in Brazil we expect revenue to be in the upper single-digit range when compared to fourth quarter 2010.
In TALX we'll offset the current weakness in the mortgage market and what was the -- a very very strong mortgage market growth in the fourth quarter 2010.
With organic growth this year our growth initiatives and modest contributions from Data Vision and eThority in the fourth quarter growth is expected to be in the low single digits.
Personal Solutions is expected to continue adding new subscribers and increasing average revenue per subscriber as it has done throughout the year.
For the fourth quarter PSoL should again deliver very strong double-digit revenue growth.
Finally North American (sic) [America] Commercial Solutions will continue winning market share and executing on NPI to again deliver very strong double-digit growth when compared to a year ago.
Now Lee if you'd give them the financial details? Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll be referring to the financial results from continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
You should also refer to the Q&amp;A and non-GAAP reconciliations attached to our earnings release for additional financial information.
For the third quarter we delivered strong results both in terms of revenue growth and operating performance.
Compared to the same quarter in 2010 for the third quarter of 2011 consolidated revenue of $490 million was up 3.5% on a reported basis and 8% when Brazil is excluded from both years.
Excluding the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates revenue was up 2.5% on a reported basis or 7% excluding Brazil.
Operating margin was 24.8% compared to 23.3% for the third quarter in 2010.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Equifax was $0.54 a share up 11% from the third quarter of 2010.
Excluding the impact of acquisition-related intangible amortization adjusted earnings per share attributable to Equifax was $0.65 a share up 8% from $0.60 in the third quarter of 2010.
Also during the quarter we repurchased 1.4 million shares of stock for $44 million.
Moving to the individual business units U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $202 million up  4%.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $136 million up 6% as online credit decision volume trends continue to improve.
Per quarter online volume was up 9% again reflecting the value of our decisioning solutions for a variety of applications particularly in the face of modest loan growth.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $32 million was flat compared to the third quarter a year ago for mortgage reporting was down from the very strong quarter a year ago as mortgage application volumes declined while Settlement Services was up nicely for the quarter as we continue to increase market penetration.
The Mortgage Bankers Application Index was down 2% from the third quarter of 2010.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $35 million up 3% and the operating margin for our total U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions business was 36.6%.
Our International business units' revenue was $119 million.
Excluding Brazil following our deconsolidation in the second quarter reported revenue grew 17% and local currency or constant dollar revenue both was 12%.
By region Latin America's revenue was $45 million.
Excluding Brazil reported revenue grew 18% in U.S.
dollars and 16% in local currency.
Local currency revenue growth was broad-based as all major product lines delivers double-digit growth.
Europe's revenue was $41 million up 16% in U.S.
dollars and up 11% in local currency.
Contributors to the growth include Consumer and Commercial Information Personal Solutions and Workload an investment asset information company in the U.K.
which we acquired earlier this year.
Canada Consumer Information revenue was $33 million up 16% in U.S.
dollars and 9% in local currency.
All product lines contributed to the growth in the quarter with Technology and Analytical Services delivering double-digit growth with Fraud Services being the key contributor.
Overall our International operating margin was 29.3% up from 25.2% in 2010.
TALX revenue was $103 million for the quarter up 4%.
A decline in mortgage activity was more than offset by approximately double-digit growth in the non-mortgage customer segments in the acquisition of Data Vision.
The Work Number with revenue of $57 million was up 4% for the quarter.
Double-digit growth in consumer finance pre-employment and government sectors and the acquisition of Data Vision helped to offset the double-digit decline in mortgage.
Tax and Talent Management Services revenue was $46 million up 4%.
The TALX operating margin was 23% up modestly from Q3 in 2010.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $46 million up 14%.
New products pricing volume growth and product mix all contributed to the strong growth during the quarter.
Direct-to-consumer branded subscription revenue growth was strong up 21% driven by double-digit growth in subscribers and healthy growth in average revenue per subscriber reflecting a shift toward more feature-rich premium offerings.
Operating margin for our Personal Solutions business was 32.8% from 31.9% in the third quarter of 2010 largely benefiting from the improved pricing and product mix.
In our North America Commercial Solutions business revenue was $22 million up 18% on a reported basis and 16% in local currency driven by strong double-digit growth in Commercial Risk and Marketing Data Management Services in the U.S.
The operating margin for our Commercial business was 23.6% compared to 17.9% in the year-ago quarter.
Corporate expenses were down $700 000 year-over-year or 2%.
Now let me turn it over to Rick.
Okay thanks Lee.
Our business continues to perform very well in this sluggish economy because we worked aggressively to diversify our revenue base during the past few  years capitalizing on our core competencies of unique data leading-edge analytics and high-value decisioning platforms.
As a result we are now less dependent on traditional consumer-based lending activities we'd ever been in the past.
That now represents that 30% -- approximately 30% of our revenue.
We've also increased our penetration in new segments such as telco utility industries.
We expanded our geographic footprint in Latin America Russia and India.
We acquired new data assets that enable us to participate in a much broader range of decisioning.
We've ingrained NPI into our DNA such that every business unit is continuously innovating to ensure that we have the most competitive high-value solutions for our customers.
So to wrap this up before we go to Q&amp;A for the fourth quarter assuming current exchange rates and excluding Brazil we expect revenue growth from continuing operations to be between 8% and 10% operating margins will be in the range similar to the third quarter representing solid growth over operating margins in the fourth quarter 2010.
And with that adjusted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be between $0.65 and $0.68 a share.
Given our strong performance today and my outlook with the fourth quarter we'll end 2011 much stronger and better positioned than we entered this year.
Our early read as we look at 2012 is that we assume no economic improvement with geographies in which we operate around the world.
But with that it's knowing how well we're executing on our growth initiatives across the businesses we expect 2012 will perform at levels equal to or better than the performance levels of 2011.
And obviously a lot more to come on that but I want to give an early read.
At this juncture I remain confident that 2012 is shaping up to be a very good year for us as well.
And when we're back together giving you the fourth quarter results obviously  we'll give you a great insight to the year at that time.
So with that operator we'd like to open up for any questions our guests might have.
[Operator Instructions] We'll first hear from David Togut of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Rick and Lee a couple of quick questions.
We saw a very substantial margin expansion both International and in North America Commercial.
Was all the International margin expansion sort of organic or were some of that the accounting change with Boa Vista? That predominantly reflects the deconsolidation of Boa Vista in International.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And then in North American (sic) [America] Commercial Solutions EBIT margins were up almost 600 basis points.
Is that a sustainable level or were there any call-outs in the quarter? No I think the margins in that business will move around a little bit quarter-to-quarter because it's a relatively small business and some relatively small expenses can cause that margin to shift but we think that is sustainably in a low 20s moving toward the mid-20s.
Yes.
And David last year the third quarter 2010 for Commercial was abnormally low as well.
Research Division</strong> I see.
Unit pricing trends Lee and online CIS any significant changes in the quarter and any significant mix change small versus large lenders? No I think it's pretty much been trending as it has the last few quarters down a couple of points.
That includes in it the fact that in the recession margin -- the mix improved a little bit it's returning to a more normalized mix.
But I think the trends are pretty much as they have been for some years.
Research Division</strong> Any thoughts Rick in terms of key milestones we should measure you on with the Boa Vista combination over the next few quarters? I am very involved.
I was just down there David meet with the team very pleased with the progress.
Everything right now is focused on integration number one.
Exchanging of new product platforms we can help them accelerate growth.
It's going to be under the covers for a period of time until we get this thing fully integrated so there will be no real metrics you can -- you'll see on the outside.
But it is our intent as soon as we think that it makes sense to increase our investment and take control of the asset we'll do so but a lot of work to be done.
Research Division</strong> Just finally any thoughts Rick in terms of -- Rick and Lee in terms of the tax rate for Q4? Lee? Yes I mean the tax rate moves in a range that's probably anywhere from 34% to 38% depending on various items that may occur.
I would expect we're probably in the lower half of that range.
I don't expect us to be at the very top end of that range.
We're about 36.1% and I would expect we'd be in that level or maybe slightly lower.
Next we'll hear from Jaime Brandwood of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Rick Lee just wondered in terms of your confidence on acceleration in the USCIS business I think you spoke about high single-digit to low double-digit growth in Q4.
Can you just talk a little bit more around the different drivers there? I think you talked about some incremental revenues in your telcos business.
You also talked about the volume growth the transactional volume growth going up a little bit? Just if you could provide a bit more color there.
And together with that with that revenue acceleration that you're expecting in USCIS could we at last see a quarter where the margin in that division returns to year-on-year expansion that you start to see some operating leverage there? Yes let me see if I could give you a little texture there.
Well I'm highly confident for those numbers I've mentioned and the reason being I'd give you a couple of anecdotes of where we've taken some share in the marketplace signed some very very large new contracts those are now behind us so revenues start to come in the door that's number one.
Number two Decision 360 is hitting on all cylinders right now in the marketplace.
It was not actually just taking market share in that case it's creating new demand for applications that never existed.
Number three we talked I think it was last quarter or maybe the quarter before about the positive telco database.
That's starting to really run full speed.
I mentioned a $22 million in contracts signed.
So that and then NPI is significant across the board for USCIS.
You get a little lift in things like auto.
I saw some core market growth as well in auto but mostly it was internally generated growth.
Jaime I would add one thing.
The fourth quarter last year was a little bit weaker seasonally than our typical pattern.
The -- so I'd just be a little careful.
We think we're going to have a very strong fourth quarter as we get into next year probably not continuing pushing the double-digit rates but it was only a few quarters ago people were wondering if we can even grow this business anymore and we're very confident...
Research Division</strong> Exactly.
That it's a solid path in this business.
Jaime on this -- the other question you have which I think was margin I don't have the data in front of me.
I think we actually had incremental expansion in the third quarter sequentially over last year.
Is that correct Lee? Research Division</strong> I was just thinking year-on-year.
Yes.
It was up in the fourth quarter.
Yes fourth quarter will show expanded margin versus the -- versus a year ago.
Also remember this that I'm more bullish now than I've been for quite some time on growth overall.
With the USCIS we're making some investments here.
I mean get that [indiscernible] database for example up and running and that could be a significant revenue contributor in the future.
That requires some investment so we're investing to sustain and further accelerate the growth in our business as well.
Research Division</strong> Just the $23 million that you mentioned coming out of the telco database is that annualized revenue or is that total over a period of a number of years? Now that well I think I said $22 million I think but it's $22 million next year.
So contracts we signed this year that will deliver that revenue in 2012.
Research Division</strong> And very lastly just North America Commercial you are obviously continuing to gain market share there very clearly from Dun &amp; Bradstreet I mean and possibly also growing faster than the other rival.
Just wondering to what extent -- beyond your capabilities and your different product offering to what extent is that driven if at all by you having a different price point to your competitors? Are you cheaper in your offering than say a Dun &amp; Bradstreet? Our philosophy in general terms is to compete on value not on price and that applies to North America Commercial as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So not a driver basically? No.
And we'll take a question from Carter Malloy of Stephens.
Research Division</strong> So first off and I know you guys just talk about this a lot off-line but just want to circle up on Decision 360 and NCTUE+ as drivers of 2012.
Are those meaningful drivers? And in your statement that 2012 performance will be equal to or better than '11 are those a big part of the picture next year or are you leaving yourself room for upside coming from those 2? No the NCTUE+ and Decision 360 does just for the U.S.
I mean we've got growth going on PSoL and North America Commercial Solutions and International as well but those will be 2 nice growth drivers for USCIS next year.
Research Division</strong> And on those products I assume they're at the USCIS or maybe to a little higher type of margin profile but as we go into next year you talk about performance equal or better; I assume that's top line.
On the bottom line are you saying that we'll be able to hold margins or you think we'll actually see further expansion? I think I'm not going to give a lot more outlook at this point in time.
I typically don't even talk about 2012 as we're wrapping up the third quarter of 2011.
Just want to give you some insight that I'm confident in this model for next year it's is going to be a growth business and I would think we're going to be in this range if not expanding margins in the future.
Research Division</strong> That's great to hear.
And then lastly circling back on B2B is that -- the growth you're seeing there is that more on the sales and marketing and database side of the business or are you seeing it more on the risk management side? Both sides the risk management side and the marketing side are both growing.
Research Division</strong> But both of those are up double digits? I don't have the exact breakout there Carter but they're both growing.
Hold on a second.
Lee you got it? Research Division</strong> Sorry I'm making you dig through the file there.
Yes they are.
Yes they both are both going double digits.
We'll go next to Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> First can you talk a little bit about -- you mentioned a competitive customer when it's going to bring in some pretty sizable incremental revenue over the next few years.
Could you just talk about the dynamics that helped you win that deal and steal it away from a competitor what they're really focused on in their evaluation? Every time we go to try to either expand the pie or share shift business it's based upon value.
And centered on value at least in the U.S.
and it's not data 360 try to expose them to different data assets we have and intrigue them with that.
So it's the TALX number the Work Number in TALX the IXI and now NCTUE+ and that's what happened here as well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then you mentioned the NPI contribution internationally.
What's that generating overall in terms of additional revenues? For International or for the company? Research Division</strong> For the company.
It's roughly a vitality lead jump and the vitality mix for this year is 10% which is roughly $200 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you look at the acquisition pipeline a couple of nice deals in TALX.
Is that largely where the pipeline has shifted to that side of the business outside of any additional investment in Boa Vista? No and yes.
Well we did a couple of not really small nice tuck-in acquisitions in Latin America.
We like the talk about I think it was the first quarter we did the -- that IXI-like business over in the U.K.
so it is balanced.
I think my focus really is on organic growth to be honest Dan and then where we can have some nice small tuck-in acquisitions we'll do those.
So it's a -- Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last one for me just could you talk about the acquisition contributions both from the quarter and what the expectation is in the fourth quarter? Well again I told you the core non-mortgage organic growth is 7% for the quarter yet mortgage actually was down.
Contributions are down.
Mortgage was -- yes if you break out the cost dollar growth contributions core non-mortgage was about 7%.
Acquisitions added about 1.5 points but mortgage comparison to prior year which had a very strong refinancing spike took away about 1.5 points; fourth quarter more acquisition contributions slightly higher might be about 2%.
Moving on to Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify a couple of things.
So Lee on the overall margin expansion that you saw this year in aggregate right? It was 100 -- a little over 150 basis points.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Are you saying that's all a function of the adjustment to Boa Vista? No the increase in International was essentially a function of -- you take out the Brazilian revenue.
And as we've said before because of the investments we were making in Brazil that was operating at a near-breakeven.
You just pull out that revenue that had about a 400-basis-point impact on International and about 100-basis-point impact on the company.
50 basis points was improvement then spread across the remainder of the company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then the timing of kind of throttling up and/or down on investments within telco in North America I was actually surprised to see USCIS margins not be up year-on-year this quarter.
My -- I guess I kind of misread how we kind of left it last quarter; I thought that was going to be up year-on-year.
And I'm just wondering were there incremental investments as you progressed to the quarter within the telco exchange or something else that kind of kept you at that level? Or was it a function of kind of this mortgage market pulling back a little bit relative to last year? Well a couple things.
I'd -- by the way the margin we got out of USCIS for the quarter is largely in line with what Lee and I expected but I'm not sure if we had communicated something different or your models had showed something different.
But yes we're making investments as we talked and reported the telco exchange.
And as the ESS business which as you know we have and USCIS grows it's a lower-margin business it grew in the fourth quarter a little faster than the overall USCIS did.
And it's also by the way one of the things you'll see in the fourth quarter.
It's going to grow it being ESS at a faster rate than the rest of USCIS as well.
So it was in line with our expectations.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But to be clear now you're saying year-on-year growth in this line item in fourth quarter for margins? Correct.
We're next to Manav Patnaik with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify one thing.
I think you mentioned that the margin guidance for the fourth quarter you said would be at the comparable level to third quarter and I think if I have my notes correct last quarter you had guided to about 25% to 25.5% range is that correct? You're right.
There's 2 things.
Thank you for catching that.
Two things that are slightly different than we gave guidance: One I just alluded to in the last question is that  ESS is now growing at a faster rate than we had anticipated.
We had nice wind in ESS since we've last talked and that margin is at a lower rate than the company average so that puts a little drag on it; and then secondly at the time we last talked about margin outlook the couple of small acquisitions  we just announced were not in my calculation.
That puts a little drag on the early quarters.
Those are 2 little headwinds in the -- on the fourth quarter.
But the core business itself if you exclude those 2 will be in a range I just mentioned compared to what I mentioned last time.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then just to get some more color on just your M&amp;A strategy in pipeline you mentioned a lot of tuck-in acquisitions.
Internationally I guess everyone seems to be in a lot of deals or there seems to be a lot of candidates available in Latin America.
I was just curious in terms of color in the Asia-Pacific region is there a good pipeline there? Is that of interest just some parts around there? Yes we continue to look where it makes sense strategically for us long-term in all parts of the world.
I described the M&amp;A pipeline as strong now more in the realm of tuck-ins than large transformational deals.
But we're looking at most countries you could possibly imagine that have growing middle class population data privacy laws that's -- are favorable to our kind of business model.
Nothing imminent this juncture but we continue to be very aggressive where it makes sense.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just finally on that I mean just thoughts on your sort of doing a more sizable acquisition.
I mean it seems like there's some assets out there that are up for sale now and I guess with the continued economic environment if it gets worse that is there might be some more up there so I was just curious how you guys evaluate the opportunity on more sizable deals.
On the sizable deals they've got to be good companies.
Unfortunately most of the sizable deals either on the market or potentially coming on the markets don't make sense for us at this juncture.
They're just not really solid companies.
I'm not going to buy a troubled company just because it's a good price.
And next we'll hear from Julio Quinteros of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about the -- so 2012 maybe just going back to the sustainability of your guidance here as you thing about the buildup for '12 where could be the biggest variances? Obviously Europe was pretty strong.
Looking at the International segments when you think about what's going on over there how much of a drag could that actually represent relative to the expectations for '12 to be essentially equal to or better with before you get to finish in 2011 here? If you think about our largest -- probably just thought of [ph] caveat that I had used before and that isn't there's no economic improvement globally but there's no significant decline economically in any environment so it's just kind of status quo.
So if they were in massive double-dip recession in Europe that would have some variance.
But as I sit here now I don't want to spend much more time looking into '12.
But as I sit here now looking at the European footprint Julio I feel very confident in the growth initiatives we have in the U.K.
in Iberia with a lot of good results in the fourth quarter and good results in 2012.
I wouldn't have said that we are confident in the overall growth rates for the company level in 2012 unless I was confident that each of the geographies aggregated  together would give us this kind of results.
So Europe will be okay next year as long as there's no significant recession.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just coming back to the U.S.
thinking about the HARP program in the mortgage business itself how do you guys see that playing through as we go into next year? Is that an incremental driver opportunity? No I don't -- I'm not counting on it.
When you think about HARP one I think that we claimed at the time that was announced $5 million to $6 million refinancing I think it is somewhat $840 000 relatively insignificant.
Also HARP it depends on the documentation which is a bit nebulous or unknown.
At this time what  documentation do they need and they're not going to need a credit file and they may need to verify employment income and that's about it.
So it's not a driver in my 2012 outlook.
It's things like the telco database we talked about things like Decision 360 it's the continuation of NPI it's the accounts that we have won this year that will continue to give us this growth next year that I've alluded to earlier.
[Operator Instructions] Next we'll hear from Bill Warmington of Raymond James.
This is Bethany Caster sending in for Bill Warmington.
Can you talk about your strategy for growing the Work Number database in non-mortgage verticals and where you've been having success? Sure but that's been a big part of Dann's focus.
It's become what's dependent on mortgage so things like collection have seen great growth.
The government sector has gained great growth entering now into the card market there's been great growth auto market is next.
So it's taking where we have great presence knowledge and working relationships in the USCIS business and now bringing Dann and the TALX the Work Number team into those channels.
Okay all right.
Got it.
And when can we expect you to make an announcement about the small business financial exchange contract? That contract doesn't expire until the end of 2013.
Yes so -- sometime soon.
Next we'll hear from Andrew Jeffrey of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rick just we've talked a bit about the acquisition strategy.
Just stepping back big picture when you consider Equifax's competitive position in the marketplace particularly in the United States how would you characterize yourself as positioned competitively with the current technologies that you have which seems pretty well-differentiated in the context I guess -- the question is of additional acquisitions you've been relatively acquisitive over the last couple of years sounds like you still have an appetite feels like there's a pretty deep mode around the business right now feels like you're taking share.
Does there come a point in which you kind of step back and say Equifax has a great suite of technology assets it's time to change capital allocation decision making or priorities a little bit at the margin? Well that's if you believe my customer needs are static and the competition is static was not at all true.
So my customer needs continues -- to grow and expand and need different solutions today than they needed yesterday.
Conversely if I get different data assets to solve problems for them today that they couldn't solve yesterday by helping them greatly.
Secondly competition will not sit still.
Competitions they're smart and they will always find ways to mimic or mirror what I've done in the marketplace with our unique data assets.
So with a dynamic environment I'm going to continue to look at data assets that I think add value to my customers help them solve problems help them grow and help us grow.
So -- but you have to understand if you think about financial model it is by and large driven by organic growth initiatives.
We've always talked that 1 to 2 points over time coming from M&amp;A the rest coming from organic.
That holds true today that will hold true tomorrow we're going to be a company centered on organic growth primarily to where it makes sense to augment it with acquisitions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like your acquisition strategy will be somewhat tactical in that regard going forward more like what we've seen in the last quarter or 2 rather than a TALX kind of transaction? Yes let's see anything out there with that kind of level.
We will always look at those but that's -- I don't see those kind of transformational deals on the radar screen right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question just going back to USCIS we've seen a big increase in mailing volumes.
It sounds like you're thinking about a modest uptick in reporting volume.
How would you -- how do you kind of relate the 2 if we continue to see a return towards a peak level peak cycle mailing volumes? What does that imply for organic revenue growth in USCIS? I'd like to think eventually as mailings go up consumers actually are extended credit and it trickles down from CMS to online.
We haven't seen -- that is the traditional model typically maybe 45 or 60 days later after the mailing volume increases you see a nice uptick in online.
That trend has not repeated itself during this recovery period.
So -- but having said that I just gave you I think a very strong outlook for USCIS in the fourth quarter so hopefully that helps.
And there are no further questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay I'd like to thank everybody for their participation and we'll be available if there are any additional questions.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Q4 2011 Equifax Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations.
And with me today are Rick Smith our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we will be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our businesses are set forth in filings with the SEC including our 2010 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will refer to a non-GAAP financial measure adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax which excludes acquisition-related amortization expense a tax benefit in the fourth quarter and the loss on the merger of our Brazilian operations with Boa Vista Serviços.
Since our Brazilian operations will merge with Boa Vista on June 1 we also present revenue growth excluding Brazil to provide a clearer understanding of our revenue growth for the businesses and will continue to be reported in our operating results.
These measures are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation included with our earnings release and posted on our website.
Please refer to the non-GAAP reconciliation and our other various Investor Relations presentations posted on our website in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab on our website for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I think you'd all agree 2011 was a very solid year for Equifax.
In fact it was a year in which we saw accelerated organic growth as each quarter unfolded.
In the fourth quarter organic non-mortgage revenue growth accelerated from 8% up from 7% in the third quarter and 4% in the first quarter.
And by the way total organic growth when you include mortgage was actually 9% the strongest we've had in quite some time.
Throughout the year we continued to invest in critical growth -- revenue growth initiatives ending the year with $75 million in CapEx and $127 million invested in strategic acquisitions around the globe.
We also invested our shareholders returning over $220 million in the form of dividends and share buyback.
Our investments in new product innovation continue to pay great dividends.
In 2011 we generated very strong double-digit growth in new products for risk services Verification Services fraud technology and local services and marketing.
In fact for the year we launched a total of 69 products around the world and that allowed us to expand into new markets and gain share with existing customers as well as new customers.
Taking a quick look at some of the high-level financials for the quarter.
Obviously Lee will give the detailed financials later on.
Total revenue from continuing operations is $510 million up 6% from a year ago.
If you exclude Brazil total revenue was up 10% for the quarter and up 11% in constant dollars.
Operating margin was just as we expected 24.7% up 190 basis points from a year ago obviously benefiting from the operating leverage that we get as well as deconsolidation of our Brazilian operations.
Finally adjusted EPS from continuing ops was $0.68 a share up 10% from $0.62 a year ago.
And now as I normally do I'll go through some business highlights.
Our internally-generated momentum in 2011 positions us very well for strong growth this year.
The environment of our customers is obviously very different than what it was just a few years ago before the recession.
Our strategy has enabled us to adapt extremely well to the emerging needs and provide high-value solutions that help -- will help them be more successful in this challenging environment.
So here are the highlights.
I'll start with USCIS and move through all 5 of them.
First USCIS had an outstanding year exiting with double-digit revenue growth expanding its operating margin by 120 basis points over the fourth quarter of a year ago and like their peers around the world launched 13 new products as NPI becomes an integral part of their growth.
We exited the year with broad-based growth and volumes across all sectors including financial services that's the large financial services regional financial services as well telco mortgage and our channel partners really truly broad-based volume growth across all entities for USCIS.
They also delivered $23 million or 3 percentage points of their growth from NPI and these are products that were built over the last 3 years so great success there.
Here's a few highlights just so you have some sense for where that 3 points of growth is coming in -- coming from for USCIS.
One is the launch of a new database that includes positive payment informations from the telecommunications utility and satellite video companies.
We've talked about that before.
That was a strong contributor for them in 2011 and will be stronger in 2012.
Number two unique products such as personal income models and enhanced debt income ratings which obviously help our clients make more discerning credit and account management decisions.
Number three digital marketing services which utilize unique Equifax wealth data to better target Internet ads.
And we talked about that for the last couple of years a great growth product for USCIS.
Number four products like Undisclosed Debt Monitoring which we launched a few years ago help mortgage lenders reduce fraud.
Five products that help our clients comply with new regulatory requirements like Reg Z.
Number six new applications for enabling technologies to help our clients manage account relationships more effectively.
And seven services to help investors evaluate mortgage-backed securities using our consumer credit data and superior matching technology.
Given the breadth and diversity of our data assets we've also broadened our distribution channels.
For example we launched a major growth initiative in the insurance sector and the results are very encouraging.
We also increased our resources and strength in our disciplined and strategic pricing to ensure that our pricing reflects the value of our customers receive and realize selected improvements where value is unique.
Our customers increasingly recognize the power of our analytical solutions for the year.
44% of the files we delivered to customers contained at least 1 Equifax annuity products.
This is particularly impressive when you consider that we have increased our penetration in each for the last 3 years starting from 28% back in 2008.
Customers in USCIS are very interested in our value-added offerings that intensified throughout the year.
You've already witnessed it through our competitive wins in our NPI initiatives.
To further support growth from these high-value solutions we continue to invest in our Technology and Analytical Services while broadening and deepening our analytical capabilities.
These investments will continue to contribute to the USCIS growth in 2012 and beyond.
So just a great year a great ending a great momentum for USCIS.
International they successfully delivered on a number of important strategic initiatives last year they strengthened our market position gained market share made strategic acquisitions across their served markets and they also obviously combined their Brazilian assets with our key partners in Brazil to become a strong and formidable competitor in a very important growth market for us.
A couple of highlights for International.
The new management team in the U.K.
achieved significant penetration -- market penetration through intense focus on their customers' changing needs in what continues to be a very competitive environment just a banner year for the U.K.
team.
Early this year we acquired Workload in the U.K.
It's an information solutions company with investment data assets very similar to IXi here in the U.S.
We're leveraging the management team products and analytics expertise in IXi to further develop the business opportunities and establish a unique capability in one of our larger international geographies.
I've got high hopes for that product over in the U.K.
in 2012 and beyond.
In Brazil we have fundamentally altered the competitive dynamics by combining our business assets in Brazil with Boa Vista.
Now a much stronger competitor in a fast-growing market the integration of our operations is well under way now making great progress and now focused on developing new products and driving strategic growth initiatives in Brazil.
Boa Vista is benefiting from the overall market growth in Brazil and we continue to be very excited about our venture and the opportunities that lie ahead.
We also closed on credit bureau acquisitions in Ecuador and Costa Rica last year which will expand and broaden our revenue growth opportunities across the fast-growing Latin American geography.
Our investment that we made a few years ago in Russia is generating very strong returns for Equifax.
During the year we grew revenue in excess of 70% and increased our ownership from 28% to 33%.
We'll continue to step up that ownership in 2012.
India is also progressing well and in line with our expectations.
We now have 250 data contributors over 149 million records loaded already into the database and we launched 12 new products last year for our Indian customers.
We continue to make very good progress in our high-value solutions.
In 2011 we launched -- we strengthened relations with our customers and realized further market penetration as revenue for our Technology and Analytical Services product line excluding Brazil was up a nice 20% across International properties.
NPI activities in International like everywhere else contributed significantly to our revenue growth.
In 2011 15% of our International revenue was driven by new products introduced since 2008 substantially above our corporate target of 10%.
Our competitive position in International could not be stronger.
In those markets where we have the largest share we've strengthened our customer relationships through innovation and intense focus on customer service.
In markets where we do not have the largest share we have gained share or improved our competitive position through innovation strategic investments and strong management discipline.
On now to TALX.
TALX Workforce Solutions made great progress on our strategic initiatives despite headwinds in the mortgage market.
The actively employed record count in the Work Number database increased now to over 51 million records up 5% as 280 new companies contribute over 5 million active records and inactive records for the year.
The Work Number database now over has 210 million records which is a great accomplishment.
TALX further expanded its ability to grow actively employed records from mid-market employers through partnership agreements which provide access to a significant amount of new active records and they'll be the benefactor of both partnerships starting in 2012 and beyond.
The acquisition of DataVision a provider of low-cost manual verification and workflow management services and eThority a provider of sophisticated HR analytics solutions will significantly deepen our relationships with customers who purchase our employment and income verification solutions and the employers who contribute records to the Work Number database.
On the PSol.
2011 I think you'll agree was a record year for PSol.
Record revenue improved operating margins rigorous management discipline and execution and increased market penetration.
They delivered growth of 15% for the year.
That growth was driven in both subscribers -- for the year driven by growth in both subscribers which were up 6% and average revenue per subscriber which was up 11%.
And we have migrated to a more of a feature-rich set of products.
Again NPI is a big part of the story and PSol as well.
And with an intense focus on their critical operating metrics such as churn conversion rate cost per account acquired and value-added pricing operating margins improved by 160 basis points to 30%.
There's great momentum in PSol and the customer experience is getting better every day.
We fully expect to continue to making market share gains in 2012 as we continue to introduce new products and further improve our customer touch points.
Finally North American Commercial Solutions delivered double-digit revenue growth driven by U.S.
risk which is continuing to take market share by leveraging both the quality of our data with analytics to deliver high-value solutions to our customers.
Our performance in 2012 -- 2011 underscores that even in a relatively mature business environment new regulations and business challenges create new opportunities for us to deliver above-average growth by meeting our emerging needs for our customers with unique and powerful solutions.
Business model linking unique and diverse data assets analytical innovation and capabilities and proprietary decision technology is in fact enduring.
Now as always Lee if you can now go through the financials it'd be great.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll be referring to the financial results from continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
You should also refer to the Q&amp;A and non-GAAP reconciliations attached to our earnings release for additional financial information.
The resilience of our core business activities along with continued execution of our long-term strategy enabled us to deliver our strongest quarterly performance in 2011.
Compared to the same quarter in 2010 the fourth quarter of 2011 consolidated revenue of $510 million was up 6% on a reported basis and 10% when Brazil is excluded from both years.
Excluding the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates revenue was also up 6% on a reported basis or 11% excluding Brazil.
Operating margin was 24.7% compared to 22.8% for the fourth quarter in 2010 and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Equifax was $0.60 per share up 20% from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Excluding a cumulative multi-year tax benefit and the impact of acquisition-related intangible amortization adjusted earnings per share attributable to Equifax was $0.68 a share up 10% from $0.62 in the fourth quarter a year ago.
Also during the quarter we repurchased 1.9 million shares of stock for $67 million.
Moving to the individual business units.
U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $216 million up 13%.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $137 million up 17% driven by improved market demand the addition of select new customers new products and certain pricing actions.
Fourth quarter online volume was up 17% significantly exceeding the 9% growth through the third quarter.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $33 million was up 13% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Core mortgage reporting was up slightly due to a favorable level of refinancing activity when compared to the fourth quarter in 2010.
And Settlement Services benefited from further customer penetration and delivered strong double-digit growth during the quarter.
The Mortgage Bankers Application Index was down 6% in the fourth quarter of 2011 from a year ago.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $46 million up 2%.
We noted at the end of the year that while demand in our transaction-based businesses held up well our project-based businesses like Consumer Financial Marketing Services experienced some softness as corporate buyers deferred discretionary projects in the face of global economic uncertainty.
The operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 37.5% up from 36.3% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our International business units revenue was $116 million in the quarter.
Excluding Brazil following our deconsolidation of that unit in the second quarter reported revenue grew 10% and local currency revenue growth was 12%.
By region Latin America's revenue was $45 million.
Excluding Brazil from the prior-year comparison reported revenue grew 10% in U.S.
dollars and 14% in local currency.
The analytics and marketing services product segments were particularly strong although all major product segments delivered double-digit growth during the quarter.
Europe's revenue was $42 million up 15% in U.S.
dollars and up 16% in local currency.
Strong double-digit organic growth in the U.K.
and the acquisition of Workload earlier in the year offset weakness in Iberia.
Our Canada Consumer information revenue was $30 million up 3% in U.S.
dollars and 4% in local currency.
Growth was generally consistent across all product lines.
Finally International's operating margin was 28.7% up from 23.6% in 2010 reflecting primarily the deconsolidation of Brazil in the second quarter.
Moving on as many of you already know we have changed the reporting format for TALX to be more consistent with how we are now operating that business unit.
As a result we will be reporting TALX Workforce Solutions the new name for the business unit along with 2 lines of business: Verification Services and Employer Services.
Verification Services includes our employment income and Social Security number verification services while Employers Services includes our Tax and Talent Management Services as well as certain complementary payroll-based transaction processing services which previously had been included with Verification Services.
For the quarter TALX Workforce Solutions revenue was $106 million for the quarter up 3%.
Verification Services with revenue of $55 million was up 11% for the quarter.
10% growth in non-mortgage verification revenue and the acquisition of DataVision more than offset the double-digit decline in mortgage-related verifications.
Employer Services revenue was $51 million down 4% reflecting a modest decline in unemployment claims activity and reduced hiring by the TSA our largest client for Talent Management Services.
The TALX operating margin was 23.2% down from 24.4% in Q4 of 2010 largely driven by changes in mix within our Employer Services offerings and the additional acquisition amortization from the acquisitions DataVision and eThority.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $46 million up 21%.
New subscriber growth and a significant improvement in average revenue per subscriber as Rick described were the primary drivers of overall growth.
Operating margin was 30.5% down slightly from 30.9% in Q4 of 2010.
North America Commercial Solutions revenue was $26 million in the quarter up 6% on both a reported and a local currency basis.
Strong double-digit growth in U.S.
transaction volume was partially offset by lower Data Management project revenue again as economic uncertainty resulted in caution by corporate buyers relative to new client marketing programs.
The operating margin for our Commercial Business was 34.4% up from 32.3% in the year-ago quarter.
Finally corporate expense was up 6% when compared to the fourth quarter in 2010.
For the full year consolidated revenue from continuing operations was $2 billion up 5% on a reported basis and 8% when Brazil is excluded from both years.
Operating margin for the year was 24.0% compared to 23.1% for 2010.
Our tax rate for the year was 37% and we expect our 2012 tax rate to be roughly similar although this can vary by -- vary quarter-to-quarter.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Equifax was $1.87.
Excluding the impact of the loss on the deconsolidation of Brazil a tax benefit in the fourth quarter and acquisition-related intangible amortization adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax was $2.52 up 9% from $2.31 in 2010.
And during the year we repurchased 4.2 million shares of stock for $142.3 million.
Net of shares issued for equity compensation plans shares outstanding declined by $3 million over the course of the year and our available share repurchase authorization at year end is $112 million.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Thanks Lee.
It's a fact [ph] that 2011 I think by any measure it was a really solid year.
Our team executed at a very high level against the strategic growth initiatives that we set forth a few years ago.
That combined with a modestly improving economic environment in most parts of the world gives us great momentum as we leave 2011 and enter 2012 obviously entering with our fastest core organic growth rate in the fourth quarter we've had in years.
Now looking forward.
The first quarter assuming the current exchange rates and excluding Brazil is expected to deliver revenue growth from continuing operations between 9% and 12%.
Every business unit is expected to deliver high single- to low double-digit revenue growth in the quarter.
Adjusted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be between $0.64 and $0.67 per share for the quarter which will be up somewhere between 10% to 16% when compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Now a look forward for the full year.
Our outlook for the full year is for solid growth from each business unit.
For 2012 when compared to 2011 we're assuming no real economic improvement in the U.S.
In fact our base case is around 2% GDP growth in the U.S.
and a modest recession in Europe.
With that being said I will now walk through some expectations for each of the 5 business units.
Starting with USCIS where we expect for the year now USCIS to deliver solid mid- to upper single-digit revenue growth both will be higher in the first half of the year when compared with the second half of the year as we anniversary certain products and some pricing initiatives and customer penetration wins we had in mid-2011.
We'll also continue our aggressive investment in NPI to significantly enhance the long-term value of our products and services to our customers in USCIS.
Now TALX Workforce Solutions is expected to deliver upper single-digit growth for the year as they continue to drive NPI market segmentation and expand the record count for the Work Number database somewhat like USCIS.
Maybe a slightly higher first-half growth for TALX versus the second half for the same reasons.
Third on the PSol we'll leverage the momentum from 2011 to deliver double-digit revenue growth.
Again in 2012 we will continue to invest more in marketing to support our long-term growth outlook for that business.
Our Commercial Solutions business made great progress in 2011 developing stronger market position growing revenue expanding their operating margin.
For 2012 we expect solid double-digit revenue growth once again.
International excluding Brazil is also expected to deliver low double-digit growth for the year leveraging its #1 market positions in Canada and Latin America along with further market penetration in the U.K.
So solid solid growth across all 5 business units again in 2012.
Overall our operating margin for the year should expand approximately 50 basis points as we benefit from the leverage we get from the accelerated growth.
For the year we expect internal investment in CapEx to be once again in that range of $75 million to $95 million.
Now we haven't done this in a while but I want to also to provide a framework for you to think about as we think about the next 3 years and what kind of growth we expect the business to have.
And obviously that model I'm about to lay out will include 2012.
I said before we've got a great team a team I'm very proud of.
They're executing at a high level.
That will continue.
We're going to continue to capitalize on our unique assets of data and as a result of that I do see a clear path to a sustainable 7% to 10% top line growth over the coming years.
Adjusted EPS should grow 3 percentage points faster than the revenue due to a combination of operating margin expansion year-over-year and our financial leverage.
Combine that with our dividend that represents a 12% to 15% for our shareholders as we look forward for the next 3 or 4 years.
So solid model and good returns for our shareholders.
So with that operator we'd like to open the phone line to any questions our audience might have.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Carter Malloy with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> First off you talked about growth before Brazil.
But can you talk about sort of core Equifax organic growth if we skin out mortgage how that looked in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter if we saw any pickup or deceleration there? I thought I broke that out.
If I didn't -- yes so if you take out inorganic and you take out mortgage the core growth was 8%.
If you just look at total core organic growth including mortgage it's 9%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the 8% ex mortgage compares to I think it was at 7% in the third quarter? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great great.
And then can we talk a little bit more about mortgage? The mortgage environment -- it's a 3-part question.
So first of all just overall mortgage environment and the impact on you and your 2012 outlook and guidance.
Second part of that is within mortgage it sounds like Work Number is a lot more origination-related than refi so I want to clarify that.
And then third sort of a bigger picture as we're looking at an AG settlement that's likely imminent and a flood of work on behalf of the banks for principal reductions and modifications what type of work if any will you guys gain there and how does that benefit if it does Equifax? I'd call that a run-on sentence Carter.
Let me see if I can -- overall when we think about mortgage for the company for 2012 we have built a business plan that is assuming about a 20% decline in the mortgage market.
So obviously if there's any increase or pickup beyond that 20% forecasted decline that's a benefit for us.
And conversely if it declines at a fast rate from 20% to negative.
I think -- if anything I think that 20% is solid if not conservative.
That answers the first part of your question.
By the way if you've read some of the reports that have come out recently the refinancing is fairly strong in the month.
It was fairly strong in the month of January and is continuing in February.
So rates are obviously in historic lows.
That's helping and we benefit from that.
But specific to Work you made a statement about the more origination-focused rather than refinancing.
They benefit from both.
And the refinancing they also get an impact as -- and pickup as well.
So if refinancing picks up that does benefit the Work Number.
And the last question you had was basically a regulatory change with California.
I think you're referring to New York coming in.
And it's uncertain right now.
If anything that's a potential upside for us.
We have not factored in that upside into our business plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay but it sounds like you're sort of agnostic towards refi versus origination.
Both those things are positive or negative? Correct.
Next up with SunTrust we'll go to Andrew Jeffrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question on USCIS top and bottom line in this quarter and looking forward.
Seems like pricing in light of the accelerating volume growth was pretty stable.
Just wondering about kind of what the one-time contributions were to the extent there were any.
And then as a corollary when I look down to the EBIT line given the strength in revenue growth might have expected a little more leverage in the segment operating leverage.
Can you Rick just talk about whether this is a structurally kind of different business than it was pre-financial crisis in terms of the sustainability of the operating leverage? Yes.
One I alluded to a little bit in my comments and Lee may have as well the performance you saw in the fourth quarter of USCIS was extremely broad-based which is -- which helps.
It's as broad-based as I've seen probably dating back to 2005 where you had great growth in our large FIs great growth in our regional banking customers great growth in telco.
Auto was up channel partners up and just everything we had was strong growth.
I've mentioned somewhere in my comments the fact that we continue to invest heavily in pricing resources and discipline and we've been doing that for years.
We stepped it up dramatically in the last 18 months in USCIS helping us think about bundling their products segmentation of products positioning of products.
Show you understand [ph] the values our customers get the ROI they have and the enterprising we should have.
And that's helped Rudy and his team at least in the fourth quarter negate some of what we typically see as price compression.
As far as sustainability yes I think that the path we're on in USCIS of leveraging these unique data assets to expand the pie and gain share is in fact sustainable that was represented in my comments with virtually no more help from the broader market in 2012.
I expect USCIS to have another really good year.
On leverage there's always mix that plays in Andrew.
I mean if my memory is correct jump in Lee I think the margin expansion was 120 basis points.
First -- fourth quarter 2011 over fourth quarter 2010 that's great leverage.
And you always have some mix.
Mortgage had a nice little uptick in the fourth quarter.
Mortgage tends to not be as high a margin as other products like OSIS.
So all in all I say it's a very very good performance top to bottom.
And Andrew the thing I would add is that one of the ways we are driving growth is not simply waiting for the traditional bank customers to order credit reports for issuing credit cards.
We're expanding we're doing more with analytics we're expanding our position in telco we're expanding our position in insurance.
And -- but to do that we have to scale the organization.
We're adding some salespeople we're adding marketing people.
So to drive the kind of growth that we're driving does require some added resources to expand our footprint both from a product perspective as well as a customer perspective.
Good point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there anything -- and that all makes good sense.
Is there anything structurally Lee that you think would prevent this business from being a 40-plus-percent EBIT business the way it was in the last cycle? Or has the world just shifted a little bit and that's not the -- an attainable long term goal? I'm just trying to frame up in the context of Rick's long-term outlook the segment profitability.
Yes.
I think this business continues to have great profits characteristics.
I think we've also tended to say that people should think about steady margin improvement not big pops because we are also investing in the growth opportunities to drive higher growth.
So we have to get there over some period yes but it maybe longer than the -- what -- if you simply think about an incremental fall-through on traditional business we're not going to get there at the rate that would imply.
But we do think there's good runway.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Rick I mean I'm very encouraged to hear you -- your willingness to comment on sort of a long-term view.
Is it safe to assume that as you look at the broad at least domestic financial institution landscape that we're back to a more normalized environment? Because you've been somewhat circumspect with regard to giving longer-term guidance since I think for almost 5 years now 4 or 5 years.
That's a great question.
A word of clarification.
No I think we're back to normalized -- if normalized is the 2002 '03 '04 '05 '06 time frame no we're not there.
But it is -- it definitely is an improving -- modestly improving environment in the U.S.
versus the last few years Andrew.
So my bullishness on the future is predicated upon kind of that modest improvement in the U.S.
economy a modest recession short-term in Europe but then it's really predicated upon the team's ability to execute.
And I've said this to a number of our investors and analysts over the past 6 to 9 months.
We've invested heavily on the ability to execute as a company.
We've invested heavily in bringing in some great talent to the company.
And as a result the team has executed at the highest level I've seen in my 6.5 years here.
So it's really that that gives me the confidence to give you a multiyear outlook.
Again I would reemphasize.
It's just not executing on the things we've always done and squeezing a little bit of incremental growth.
It's expanding our footprint with new -- it's the kind of revenue growth addition we can get from new products and entering or expanding in some market segments.
Next up we have Michael Meltz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Nadia Lovell in for Michael Meltz.
I just have a couple of questions.
Personal Solutions accelerated throughout the year.
What's behind that? Have you changed marketing strategy at all? Oh yes that has been a top-to-bottom -- new leadership.
I think it's been 18 months ago or so we [indiscernible] that Trey Loughran he's brought a new team with him.
A new focus on metrics -- we've got some background noise [indiscernible] on the phone.
[Technical Difficulty] But heavy focus on churn heavy focus on dispersion heavy focus on new product innovation.
We're more aggressive in the marketplace and advertising as well driving subs increasing our ARPU.
So yes top-to-bottom kind of overhaul of that PSol product.
Research Division</strong> And then I have another question.
In Brazil are you getting to a point where you can start to increase your ownership stake beyond the current 15%? We have the vehicle as you know -- we announced this -- when was that? Mid-last year.
There were a series of triggers that allow us to do so.
We have not done so yet.
We're actively involved in the process of integrating the 2 companies driving new product to market gaining market share.
So on the operational aspect forget the ownership for a second operationally we're doing everything we've set out to do and may be slightly ahead of pace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My last question.
How should we think about your free-cash-flow priorities in 2012 in terms of acquisition versus share buybacks? Certainly.
Yes I think they continue to be -- what we've said before it's hard to plan for acquisitions because we try to be extremely disciplined in the ones we pursue.
But acquisitions when the right ones present themselves that will always be a priority in comparison to share buyback.
Share buyback the rewards are probably more immediate.
But acquisitions that may help us expand our footprint in logical ways where we can bring leverage through our skills and capabilities where those bring assets to us that leverage into our base create more long-term value.
Next with Evercore Partners we have David Togut.
Research Division</strong> Rick you were pretty explicit in terms of your revenue growth assumptions for each of your 5 business units for 2012.
Can you give us a little more granularity on your expectations for margins for each of the 5? And perhaps in conjunction with that give us a sense of where you have more investment versus last investment for the year ahead.
Yes no David we don't break out at least at this juncture the margin book.
I can tell you that in general terms where -- PSol is at a very very high level of margin.
I think the margin last year was 30%.
I don't think you'll see much expansion there.
You'll see businesses like Commercial at a very high level modest upside in Commercial.
Lee you jump in here as well.
I would expect in 2012 similar margins in TALX expanding margins in USCIS and some expanding margins in International.
Yes I think that's right.
And I would emphasize at a total company level we are very committed to delivering moderate but steady improvement in margin.
But business by business we'll have some businesses where we're investing in a given year.
We do not try to manage consistent steady improvement margin for every business every year.
That becomes too constraining.
But at a total company very committed to improvement.
Research Division</strong> And Lee you touched on unit volume versus pricing online CIS.
I apologize I didn't catch the numbers.
What were they again in the quarter? Our unit volume and our revenue were up about the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay so price flat.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And just finally Lee the tax rate in the quarter was toward the low end of your guidance I believe.
Can you give us an insight into tax rate for 2012 in terms of what's embedded in your outlook? I think what we've said for the year the tax rate was 37% and give or take I would say 36% to 38%.
That can float around a little bit.
States are taking various actions.
Frankly the government's taking various actions.
They tend to work against us not help us not surprisingly.
But we are always looking for things that we can do.
So I would simply say 37% plus or minus for the year and it will tend to fluctuate by quarter.
Research Division</strong> And just finally Rick and Lee you significantly increased the dividend I believe about a year or a 1.5 year ago.
What are your thoughts for the dividend for the year ahead? Good question David.
We remain committed to that 25% to 35% that income being redistributed back to our shareholders in the form of dividend.
We in fact have a Board meeting tomorrow.
We'll discuss that tomorrow.
But our anticipation will be we'll make a move up with the dividend this year.
Next up we have Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> One quick question.
If you go back through the pieces of the model and I guess I'm mostly focused on the USCIS to a comment that you made Lee about the discretionary spending environment.
If you sort of think about the business against volume sensitivity discretionary spending versus recurring spending is there a way to sort of think about how much of your business is potentially discretionary versus volume-sensitive versus recurring? Just trying to get a sense for -- the stability the business obviously is pretty strong.
So as we go forward from here what would be the potential exposure to any continued sort of sluggishness on the discretionary side? Yes it's really the -- what I would describe as discretionary project-oriented spending tends to be concentrated in our Consumer Financial Marketing Services aligned within USCIS.
And even that as some portion of that is subscription-based and some portion are the kind of one-time marketing studies or more discretionary types of projects I haven't looked at it closely lately but if you take even half as being discretionary and half as locked in to subscriptions it's probably more subscription than that.
And CFMS is 20% of USCIS.
20% -- USCIS is predominantly transaction-based.
And as I said before we've seen transaction activity performing very well.
And the only thing I'd add there Julio if you think about the marketing piece of USCIS which Lee just mentioned was 20% a big chunk of that was actually -- is up -- it was solid in the fourth quarter.
Our triggers were solid our portfolio reviews were solid.
It was just a piece of the 20% that was I'd call discretionary that was slightly down.
And as I think about that -- even if that is a little volatile our discretionary spend the market demand is starting to strengthen and our execution on growth initiatives is actually in a very high level as well.
So I think you have to think about that in context.
Research Division</strong> Definitely.
And maybe just to think about the FI environment.
Over the last couple of days whether it's consumer spending consumer loan volume even the transaction volume data that we've seen out of the Visas and the Mastercards of the world suggest that credit as a product seems to be doing really well.
Obviously for you guys that has some implications.
So can you sort of help us frame a little bit about sort of the FI conversations coming out of the CARD Act now and kind of post-urban world what is the FI attitude and view about new credit new account-on-file growth and continue to sort of drive that expansion as we go into 2012 from here? I describe it as improvement.
As -- we spent a lot of time our there with our banking clients it's not euphoria but it's improving.
Cautiously optimistically improving.
It feels better -- if I categorize a tone today it feels better today than it's felt in a number of years.
Auto lending feels pretty good.
Credit card loans and issuance feel pretty good.
Refinancing is strong.
Obviously home origination and new mortgages still sluggish.
Small business lending still a little sluggish.
Midsized to large corporate lending improving.
So the overall tone would be one of modest improvement.
Next up with Barclays Capital we'll go to Manav Patnaik.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could maybe add to that in terms of sort of what your free-cash-flow expectations are? I know you gave the CapEx range of $75 million to $95 million but I was just wondering if you could provide a little more color on what your expectations are for free cash flow? Lee take that one.
Yes I would expect free cash flow to be relatively consistent.
Obviously we get a little bit of bump because our earnings are higher.
The D&amp;A will be a little bit higher.
Though cash from operations should be up some look at CapEx in the middle of a range would be up a little bit.
Rick indicated dividends are likely to be increasing more or less in line with earnings and that will lead to free cash flow i.e.
cash from ops less CapEx and dividends in the $250 million give-or-take range.
And that's what we've got available for acquisitions or share repurchase.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other question I had was relative to I guess another way to ask what's sort of your subscription basis.
But relative to the balance sheet deferred revenue item how should we -- with a lot of other subscription companies obviously tend to focus on that item but how should we tie that item on your balance sheet to your revenue trends?  Because it clearly seems to be going in different directions.
Yes the decline in deferred revenue really resulted from the deconsolidation of our Brazilian business which had some deferred revenue.
I think our subscription business is not a large part of what we do but the deferred revenue on the balance sheet would generally tend to perform with our business.
This year really a function of the deconsolidation of Brazil.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then I guess just some housekeeping for the quarter.
In terms of the -- what was the acquisition contribution? I think it was 1.6% last quarter.
What was that this quarter? What is this quarter is that a -- first quarter? Q4.
Q4.
Research Division</strong> No fourth quarter sorry.
Just under 2%.
Research Division</strong> And the expectations in this 9% to 12% guidance for the first quarter? Is your question how much of the 9% to 12% is...
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess what your -- correct yes.
I don't have it broken out Lee do you? I don't recall.
It's going to -- it's probably a little bit less than that just because I think we've got something that's falling off in the 12-month anniversary.
Yes roughly that will be -- that's more close to 1% 1.5%.
We'll now go to Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So back in early kind of December Latin America obviously had a good quarter.
But you had mentioned that you were seeing some modest slowdown there.
And with the 14% local currency growth this quarter I'm just wondering did that kind of reverse from what we saw?  Or were kind of October and November just really strong months December kind of played out as it was? Or are we starting to see kind of reacceleration back there? Yes I don't actually recall the discussion saying we're slowing.
The growth in Latin America was broad-based.
It was across all countries like we've seen now for quite some time.
And not just all countries but all -- mostly all products across all countries.
So as I look at Latin America and I look at 2012 first quarter and total year I think the growth we're seeing there is definitely sustainable.
Yes.
And I would add second and third quarters excluding Brazil Latin America was growing in 16% for us.
It slowed slightly.
The GDP growth generally in Latin America is slowing slightly.
But with a broad range of our products our revenue is holding quite well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay super.
And then with Brazil's integration going well and I think you mentioned that your focus now is on new products can you just comment on the areas of kind of new product development where you think you have a competitive advantage to that market? Yes.
I think it's -- obviously leveraging the size and the scale that both these companies bring together.
And that's taking the price [ph] at our workforce in other parts of Latin America in other parts of the world down to Brazil.
And that could be things like analytical solutions decisioning so on and so forth fraud products that we have that have worked very well in other parts of the world.
That was really the value that the partners saw in us is a good leadership team that understands how to innovate and bring new products from one part of the world to Brazil.
So that's exactly what we're doing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the long-term plan 3-year horizon the 7% to 10% I'm wondering does that assume that you're bringing in some of these minority interest kind of relationships? Or is that -- is the message there that that is kind of what we are going to see out of the kind of existing structure of the business? I'm not sure what you're referring to when you say minority interests.
You may be thinking of Russia or something like that but -- that's the existing companies we see today.
Next up with Credit Suisse we have George Mihalos.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to dig in a little bit more on the OCIS revenue growth.
Obviously you guys have had the 2 large competitive takeaways ramping.
Can you give us a sense as to when those contracts will be fully ramped and maybe what their contribution was in this quarter? Yes.
Both of them were -- and Lee I'm thinking from memory here both of the ones we referred to I think it was the last earnings call should anniversary.
It was late third quarter early fourth quarter of last year.
I think one may have been in October and one was maybe just a month or so prior to that.
And as far as the contribution of those 2 to the overall growth I have not done the calculations my instinct is it's not significant because the growth we're seeing in USCIS is so broad-based again across multiple products and almost every single vertical that we play in.
So it truly is broad-based and not driven by 1 or 2 takeaways.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's good to hear.
And just looking at your outlook in 2012 for the TALX business.
I think you said you're looking at upper-single-digit revenue growth.
Can you talk about your confidence in achieving that number given the sensitivity there to mortgage and I think you had said that you're kind of forecasting the mortgage business overall being down 20%? Anytime and the team is executing very nicely.
They had massive headwinds as we said last year in the -- starting late second quarter through the fourth quarter those headwinds have abated.
And we have built a plan that's assuming there's 20%-ish decline in the mortgage market at the end [ph] is diversifying the Work Number well beyond the mortgage markets we talked about.
We're increasing the Work Number records which obviously give them great leverage on the topline and bottom line.
We talked about partnerships we've got to go down market so I'm highly confident.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And last question for me.
Just looking at Europe you guys are looking for a modest recession there.
But on a constant currency basis I mean you continue to push really strong growth in the European market.
Is that really just new products hitting the market or is there anything more to that that's really driving the outsize growth? It's largely that.
NPI is allowing us to go into new markets that we didn't serve before.
It's allowing us to take share with current customers who we are serving.
We're leveraging the IXi-like database over to the wealth database to create new products.
We think that'll be [ph] Decision 360.
So it's really a great execution by the leadership team in the U.K.
Next up is Bill Warmington with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question for you on the longer-term revenue guidance framework that you gave.
In the past you've talked -- you've given a little bit more detail in terms of the split there as it breaks down between organic and acquired and then also kind of what's coming from some core growth markets new products from strategic initiatives and then finally acquisitions as part of that.
I just wanted to know if you could...
Great question.
You're referring back to the 2000 -- I think '06 timeframe.
Correct.
We don't expect in that model I just gave you any improvement from the core market environment which hopefully we'll try not to be conservative.
We assumed back in -- I think it was '06 '07 '08 2% or 3%.
We're assuming the same here.
We assumed back then about 1 to 2 points of M&amp;A.
We're assuming the same thing here.
What's really happening is because of our ability to execute the growth initiatives now at a much higher level than where we were when we first launched things like 4G and NPI and so on and so forth.
We're stepping that up.
And we're going to get more from our core organic growth initiatives and that will now be 4% to 5%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Rick you also mentioned adding some resources in sales and marketing.
I just wanted to ask in terms of the headcount of sales at the end of 2011 how that compares to the end of 2010 and then where you think it'll be when you exit 2012? I have no clue.
That's an honest answer.
We have -- each business is at a different point in their growth.
What you should know is this.
Over last 5 or 6 years we have invested heavily in the growth levers for the company.
So marketing has been a significant investment in new product innovation product management pricing segmentation branding.
Sales is invested heavily now that we're coming out this downturn but I have no idea what those numbers are by business or in aggregate.
Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird is next.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to first ask about the online CIS business.
Historically the last 8 or 9 years the seasonality in that segment's down about $10 million versus the September quarter.
Was this quarter primarily just a new customer wins or has something changed in the underlying seasonal dynamics of that business? I don't think there's anything changed as far as cyclicality.
If I go back to -- it was such a broad-based performance.
That's what's different.
Every vertical through our NPI initiatives we're able to grow year-on-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you were -- if you look at those volumes on a same-customer basis would the same theme be in place? Yes it's a combination of growing with our current customers and expanding the customers that we serve.
And thirdly even with the customers that we service not just taking share but solving problems with the data assets we couldn't solve a [indiscernible] spending more money with us..
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then with the new regulator now officially up and running what have you heard from there? And I assume you guys are not the focus for them in the near-term? We've intentionally reached out to them.
We went up and sat down with the team in D.C.
which I think it was back in December.
I had a very good conversation with them.
They've been here to talk our teams.
So we're taking a proactive approach with them.
And at this juncture I feel we're well prepared.
Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel Nicolaus is next.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to ask you a little bit about the growth.
Everyone's asking about USCIS but I'm asking a little bit more in terms of comparing to some of your peers that are out there.
The growth really exceeds what we're seeing from some of the other competitors.
I'm wondering are you expanding the market or are you getting a sense that you're -- have or taken market share? And I'm asking just beyond the few competitive takeaway that you guys have highlighted in the last quarter.
Yes it is -- that's a good question.
Just a clarification.
We are customer-unique data assets able to solve problems for customers that they weren't solving before so hence they're spending more money.
So it's I'd say growing to the pie.
Number 2 is we're able to take our products to different verticals we couldn't service as robustly in the past i.e.
insurance and you take share there or expand the pie.
And third we're clearly taking share from -- existing customers we have ex share ex is going up or taking share where we had no share before from new customers.
A combination.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> To be -- you have a definite sense that you are taking some share from the other existing participants? Clearly.
And I think I've given you examples over the last year or so.
So absolutely.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the Consumer financial marketing segment IXi seems to have been on like on a tear for 1.5 year.
And then the last 2 quarters it slowed down.
And is there anything different that's been going on in IXi? Is it really that they had a really high level of project or related work over there? Can you just give us a little more clarity? Yes I think 2 things.
And Lee jump in.
One was last -- towards the end of last year especially the fourth quarter of 2010 I should say not 2011 they had an unbelievable run-up of some project-based work that did not repeat.
So the comps were tough and they had a couple of large projects as Lee mentioned in his commentary that were viewed on the label discretionary spend that did not materialize.
The underlying growth of the company the value proposition of the product for the customers is still strong.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it really is project -- tough comps and project work that for some reason is just slowing down right now.
Correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on the Commercial Solutions.
Again you had a very very strong string of quarters in terms of year-over-year growth.
And then this quarter was fine but not like the double-digit growth.
Was there some deferrals that ended up happening that are slipping into 1Q that are just going to make that a particularly strong quarter? If you look at the core U.S.
risk business which is the core of that BU -- I forgot the number strong double-digit growth in the fourth quarter.
And much like IXi they have a piece of the business we call NDM [ph] which is the marketing which is a project-based business that is somewhat discretionary.
And it was that piece of business in the fourth quarter that didn't pop like we had hoped it would pop.
But if you go back to my commentary I think in my concluding comments I talked about the forecast for 2012 first quarter and total year and I told you I expect good strong double-digit growth from that.
Okay.
And so we're not seeing -- you're not -- that's not indicative of any slowdown in the core markets that you're serving right now? No sir.
Okay.
I'd like to thank everybody for their participation.
We'll be around throughout the day if there's any additional questions.
And with that operator we'll conclude the call.
Thank you.
Once again everyone that will conclude today's call.
Thank you for joining us.
You may now disconnect.
Please enjoy the rest of your day.
Good day and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 Equifax Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations.
And with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2011 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will refer to a non-GAAP financial measure adjusted diluted EPS attributable to Equifax which excludes acquisition-related amortization expense.
Since our Brazilian operations were emerged with Boa Vista on May 31 2011 we also present revenue growth excluding Brazil to provide a clearer understanding of our revenue growth for those businesses that will continue to be reported in our operating results.
These measures are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Please refer to the non-GAAP reconciliation and our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab at our website for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
As most of you know we've made a number of commitments to some important foundational principles which have guided this company for the past 6.5 years.
These principles include an intense focus on growth new product innovation accountability LEAN strategic acquisitions as well as leveraging our analytic expertise and unique data assets across all business units.
Our execution against these commitments continues to pay off.
The momentum and broad-based performance we delivered throughout 2011 positioned us well for 2012.
For the first quarter strong double-digit growth from our 4 largest business units resulted in record revenue growth and record growth in adjusted EPS.
The results were significantly ahead of our expectations as we entered the year.
Shortly I will update you on our full year outlook.
But as you would assume our optimism and confidence for the full year has improved.
Taking a quick look at some of the high-level financials for the quarter total revenue was $523 million up 11% over a year ago excluding Brazil.
Total revenue was up 15% for the quarter and up 16% in constant dollars.
Our operating margin was 27 -- or 24.7% up 160 basis points from a year ago.
Finally adjusted EPS was $0.70 which is up 21% from $0.58 a year ago.
And as I normally do I'll go through some highlights of each of the 5 business units then I'll hand it over to Lee for the financials.
Starting with USCIS.
They had one of their strongest quarters ever bolstered by very broad-based growth.
The theme by the way you're going to hear throughout all of the units.
This performance in the first quarter was extremely broad based.
We had great growth in Auto Telco FIs Mortgage and Insurance.
We also increased our transaction with new products accelerated the transaction activity in many of our larger customers and drove new strategic pricing programs across the board.
Although -- along with strong revenue performance operating margins in Online Consumer Information Solutions and Credit Marketing Services expanded nicely during the quarter and with the primary drivers behind a 241 basis point improvement in USCIS' operating margin versus a year ago.
Our execution in targeted verticals continues to improve and is delivering meaningful incremental revenue growth.
During the quarter we had double-digit growth in our key client program.
And to refresh your memory the key client program of the top 4 banks in the U.S.
are what we focus on.
We also had great double-digit growth in our channel partners in addition to Telco Auto Financial Services and Insurance sectors; all double-digit growth.
We have consolidated all of our analytic talent throughout the organization to further leverage their expertise their familiarity with our vast array of data assets and deep understanding of our customers' needs in today's fast-changing and highly competitive market.
That was done just a quarter ago and the benefits of that new structure should yield in the coming quarters.
Continuing with USCIS.
Transaction with our new products continues.
Of the products launched in 2009 2010 and 2011 29 of those products are now delivering revenue that exceeds our NPI target for the quarter and those are allowing us to win in the marketplace.
We're also in the beginning stages of developing strategies for new applications that use our vast data assets and analytical capabilities such as mobile payments and marketing.
We continue to make good progress in the government sector particularly with our ID management solutions.
In Retail Banking we have completed the development of the DDA checking account score which will be used in the account opening process.
This new product will be launched in the second quarter.
Finally USCIS has intensified their sales efforts to increase the penetration of TALX Workforce Solutions products into the financial sector.
And performance was significantly ahead of our target for the first quarter.
Moving on to International.
International excluding Brazil continues to leverage its strong market position to deliver strong double-digit growth at very attractive margins.
As we have said in the past International is a very important contributor to our long-term growth.
We'll continue to invest aggressively to expand the contributions of International revenues but we'll maintain our disciplined approach to ensure they deliver an appropriate return to the shareholders.
International's new product innovation in key industry focus was made with major contributors to a strong double-digit growth in both Europe and Latin America when you exclude Brazil.
NPI represented 9% of revenue for the quarter and some very successful products came out of the mix and new products were introduced into these markets.
And from revenue from Financial Institutions Telco and Auto sectors all grew at strong double-digit growth rates for the quarter.
In the U.K.
our Personal Solutions product line brought an amazing 53% in the quarter.
To ensure continuous success we are leveraging the skills and expertise of our North America Personal Solutions team led by Trey Loughran and their technology platforms to support a broader more diversified product portfolio mix in the U.K.
Analytical services which represents almost 10% of International revenue delivered strong double-digit growth in all geographic segments.
In short a strong broad-based performance driven by solid execution in our core business initiatives.
Moving on to TALX Workforce Solutions experienced very strong broad-based growth.
Again a theme you're going to hear across the company.
That growth was across all verticals for The Work Number.
Mortgage Consumer Finance Government and Pre-employment were all up strong double-digit.
We've identified a number of new opportunities that further monetize The Work Number database.
For example in 2011 over $48 million of revenue came solely from historical records in the database.
Pre-employment screening auto reviews and due diligence activities are all creating new opportunities to leverage these historical records and that trend will continue going forward.
Total records for the database were up 4% for the quarter and we added 79 new contributors of data in the quarter.
In addition a number of initiatives are underway to broaden and further penetrate our verifier base.
We're making good progress on bundling the additional services with our existing verifier customers and entering non-mortgage related verticals to drive highly profitable incremental revenue growth.
Finally for TALX the eThority acquisition which we made in 2011 is enabling TALX to develop high-value added analytic product offerings that will deepen our relationship with employers who contribute data into The Work Number database.
Next PSol.
North America Personal Solutions delivered another strong performance driven by its high-value product offerings strong customer relationships and commitment to continually improving performance on their key metrics such as churn ARPU and subscriber base.
Market penetration continued to be strong as new build subscribers additions in the U.S.
grew by 14% in the quarter.
We're also leveraging our U.S.
technology platforms and product portfolio in Canada and as I've mentioned before in the U.K.
to further their success in the direct-to-consumer market.
Finally North American Commercial Solutions.
Their results were below our expectations for the quarter with growth of 1%.
Transaction-based revenue on the risk side grew 10%.
But project-based revenues fell as we saw corporate clients cut back on or delay or reduce the size of discretionary spend on projects.
However based upon the current pipeline of revenue opportunities we see growth improving in Commercial for the balance of the year.
Overall our performance for the first quarter was better than we expected and provided a very strong start to the year.
Lee if you'd take it from there? Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll be referring to the financial results generally presented on a GAAP basis.
You should also refer to the Q&amp;A and non-GAAP reconciliations attached to our earnings release for additional financial information.
Continued strong execution from our 4 largest businesses coupled with a better-than-expected mortgage market and the incremental operating leverage in our transaction-oriented segments enabled us to deliver very successful first quarter performance.
Compared to the same quarter in 2011 for the first quarter of 2012 consolidated revenue of $523 million was up 11% on a reported basis and 15% when Brazil is excluded from 2011 revenue.
Excluding the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates revenue was also up 11% or 16% excluding Brazil.
Operating margin was 24.7% compared to 23.1% in the first quarter of 2011.
And diluted EPS attributable to Equifax is $0.58 up 27% from the first quarter of 2011.
Excluding the impact of acquisition-related and intangible amortization adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax was $0.70 a share up 21% from the first quarter a year ago.
Moving to the individual business units.
U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $218 million up 20% over a year ago.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $149 million up 24%.
About 1/3 of this growth came from the mortgage sector which explains the acceleration of growth from the fourth quarter of 17% growth rate.
The remaining drivers of this high-growth were largely the same factors which drove the fourth quarter new products conversion of new customers certain pricing actions taken a year ago and growth in transaction demand from existing customers.
First quarter online volume was up 16% continuing the strong double-digit growth that began in the fourth quarter.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $34 million was up 26% compared to the first quarter a year ago.
Both core mortgage reporting and Settlement Services delivered strong double-digit growth in the quarter.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $34 million up 2%.
Credit Marketing Services delivered broad-based double-digit growth in the quarter more than offsetting a lower level of project revenue in our IXi segment.
The operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 36.5% up from 34.1% in the first quarter of 2011.
Our International revenue was $121 million.
Excluding Brazil following its deconsolidation in the second quarter of 2011 reported revenue grew 12% and local currency revenue growth was 15%.
By region Latin America's revenue was $47 million.
Excluding Brazil from the prior-year comparison reported revenue grew 15% U.S.
dollars and 18% in local currency.
Growth was broad based beginning with solid double-digit growth in Consumer and Commercial Information and strong double-digit growth in technology and analytic services and marketing services.
Europe's revenue was $43 million up 15% in U.S.
dollars and up 18% in local currency.
Workload which accounted for approximately 5 points of growth along with solid double-digit growth in U.K.
Analytical Services U.K.
Personal Solutions and Iberia were the primary contributors to another strong performance in this geography.
Added Consumer Information revenue was $31 million up 5% in U.S.
dollars and 7% in local currency.
Strong double-digit growth in our analytics solutions including conversions to our generic risks or portfolio insights and neighborhood view were the principal drivers of this growth.
International's operating margins was 31.8% up from 23.4% in 2011 reflecting primarily the deconsolidation of Brazil in the second quarter.
Margin expansion in the U.K.
and Canada also contributed positively.
For the quarter TALX Workforce Solutions revenue was $114 million for the quarter up 14%.
Verification Services with revenue of $57 million was up 37% for the quarter.
Approximately 60% of that growth came from broad-based organic growth in mortgage government consumer finance and pre-employment online verifications while the remaining growth came from the acquisition of DataVision in August a year ago.
Employer Services revenue was $57 million down 2% primarily due to lighter unemployment compensation claims activity.
The TALX operating margin was 23% up from 21.9% in the first quarter of 2011 largely due to the strong performance in Verification Services.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $50 million up 11% from a year ago.
Strong double-digit growth in business to consumer subscription revenue was driven by single-digit growth in ending subscriber volume and double-digit growth in ARPU as new customers purchase and existing customers trade up to the higher value Equifax complete suite of products.
Canada exhibited strong double-digit growth as a result of leveraging our U.S.
technology platform and product portfolio in Canada.
Strong double-digit growth in subscription revenue more than offset declines in both breach and transaction revenues.
And our operating margin was 28.3% down slightly from 28.7% in the first quarter a year ago reflecting stronger marketing activity.
North America Commercial Solutions revenue was $21 million up 1% on a reported and local currency basis.
Strong double-digit growth in transaction revenue was offset by lower risk and marketing project-related revenue.
The operating margin was 16.8% down from 24.9% in the year-ago quarter primarily resulting from the lower project revenue and continued investment in the long-term strategy for this business.
Corporate expense was up 49% compared to the first quarter of 2011 largely due to executive stock-based compensation that occurred in the second quarter in 2011 but was moved to the first quarter in 2012 to coincide with our annual board evaluation of management.
And 2 additional incentive compensation driven by our very strong first quarter outperformance.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Thanks Lee.
On the second quarter outlook assuming current exchange rates and excluding Brazil we expect to deliver revenue growth from continuing operations between 12% and 14%.
And adjusted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be between $0.70 and $0.73 a share which will be up 15% to 20% when you compare it second quarter of 2011.
With strong performance in our core markets and continued effective execution on our initiatives our optimism and confidence for the full year of 2012 outlook has clearly strengthened from a quarter ago.
Now although the mortgage market has been much stronger in the first quarter when compared to original expectations we now expect it to start slowing as we exit the second quarter enter the third quarter for the balance of the year and come closer to the range we gave in our release in February.
As a result our view of the full year is that revenue growth for the company excluding Brazil will now be between 10% and 12% which is at or above the upper end of our long-term growth rate target we've talked about in the past.
As we said in the past earnings should grow an additional 2% to 3% as improved -- as a result of improved operating and financial leverage.
If the mortgage market does better than we expect we should be able to deliver even stronger performance over the year.
Time will tell how the mortgage market unfolds.
Along with our improved outlook for the year I want to provide you an update on each of our business units and how they are looking for the balance of the year.
Starting with USCIS we expect them to deliver double-digit revenue growth despite tougher year-on-year comps as we exit this year.
TALX Workforce Solutions is expected to deliver upper single-digit growth for the year as they continue to drive new product innovations market segmentation and expand the record count for the Work Number database.
Personal Solutions will continue to leverage momentum from 2011 to deliver double-digit revenue growth in 2012.
In Commercial Solutions we have a great -- we had great customer traction with our transaction-based services.
But I've mentioned before we experienced some challenges with our project-related revenue.
But the pipeline is strong and the momentum will pick back up and as a result we anticipate 2012 revenue growth will be in the upper single-digit range.
International still should continue to deliver strong double-digit revenue growth for the year.
So operator with that we would it up open for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Carter Malloy with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> First off I want to talk about the core OCIS business.
Really big growth in there even when we strip away a lot of things.
So I assume pricing played a key role there.
And if you'd give a sort of overview of pricing as well as -- specifically within the affiliate channels there what type of moods we saw this quarter? Yes.
Again what you saw was a very high level.
But this growth as you stated in USCIS was extremely broad based.
Almost every major vertical that you can think of was up strong double-digit so -- which is great.
NPI continued to play a big role as well.
On pricing we did announce a series of pricing initiatives middle of last year Carter which will sunset as we exit the second quarter of 2011.
And that did pay -- pay some dividends for stock.
Mortgage obviously was strong that gave us a little bit of growth as well.
Transaction volume though was extremely strong as we mentioned in the numbers as well.
Specific to the -- was it the resell market you were...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
We don't have those on the book now.
We don’t have them Carter.
Research Division</strong> Understood no worries.
And then as far as your International outlook also very strong there in their performance.
Can you drill down specifically on Europe and U.K.
sort of external of Iberia? And also why exactly PSol is up so much and should that continue? Yes.
The growth in Europe was broad-based as you mentioned.
Iberia was very strong which is counterintuitive to the -- what you read and see in the markets in general terms in Iberia.
U.K.
continues to be extremely strong across all verticals all markets.
Most of it organic Lee gave you a breakout there.
If you extract out the Workload acquisition I believe it was like 13% 14% organic growth.
So strong.
Specific to PSol in the U.K.
that growth -- it's been a renewed focus from the leadership team in the U.K.
Leveraging best practices and ideas that have helped the U.S.
win and helped Canada win.
We're now deploying those at a rapid rate in the U.K.
so just a fabulous result in the U.K.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then lastly of The Work Number revenues how much of that exactly is mortgage related? We don't break that out specifically Carter.
But again if you -- my words and I think Lee talked about it as well The Work Number growth was extremely broad based.
And you're getting accelerated growth in non-mortgage and rate growth from the mortgage sector.
So it's -- it's broad based not just mortgage.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
But would it be fair to say that it's still at this point a majority mortgage at least? Yes.
And next we'll hear from Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple actually.
Rick as you consider the mortgage environment and your expectations for a normalization if you will can you talk about what you think sustainable volume growth is in a recovering U.S.
consumer credit economy within your USCIS segment? For the core non-mortgage or core mortgage? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well no I'm -- I'm actually asking about what you think total volume growth will be in the segment assuming a more normalized mortgage environment.
So rather than the upside we've seen in the last couple of quarters.
Yes.
So if you exclude the upside in mortgage and look at just the core -- so you forget some of the new product innovation initiatives that Rudy and his team are driving -- how do you expect mid single-digit kind of growth going forward for the core USCIS? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm not sure if you mentioned it in your prepared remarks this quarter but how much revenue growth did USCIS enjoy from NPI? I did not.
It's -- I mentioned 29 products part -- that exceeded our expectations over the last 3 years.
I don't have that off the top of my head.
They're performing at or above the company level.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it's safe to assume it's a couple of points kind of -- at least kind of consistent with prior quarters? Yes.
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more if I might.
Regarding incremental USCIS profitability.
Given the very high level of volume margins are up year-on-year.
But we haven't really seen a meaningful acceleration.
Should we expect one? Or what's the dynamic there as we continue to see volume recover? Are you referring specifically to the USCIS? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
The segment margin.
Lee? Yes.
I mean it is up 240 basis points which I consider to be pretty good.
But of the watch outs you have to look for in that business a couple of things: First when mortgage happens to be a strong driver of growth certain of the mortgage revenue is very high incremental margin but certain of it such as our tri-merge reporting our Settlement Services have significant pass-through costs.
So the blended margin on the incremental margin is not -- mortgage is not the same.
It's just selling a whole lot more credit report.
So you got to be a little careful on that point.
The other and it comes back to the point you raised about NPI is we're not going to sustain Rick said mid-single digits.
And of course internally we're trying to push to higher levels than that.
But we're not going to sustain that simply sitting here and waiting to sell more credit reports.
So we're driving a lot of investment in new product.
We're moving into some new end use markets and channels.
And all of that takes some level of investment.
And at these rates of growth I think people would be very very happy with the growth we're achieving while still expanding margins.
But it's not going to -- 240 basis points is darn good and it's not going to accelerate from that rate of growth.
But we do think over the next year or 2 we continue to see some improvement in the margin in that segment.
Our next question will come from George Mihalos with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to lead off on the OCIS side.
You mentioned a number of different things driving outsized growth there.
Has anything changed on the competitive front? Are you winning more business competitively? And then as you kind of look out to the back half of the year going forward on the pricing side obviously it's been favorable now for the last couple of quarters.
Should we expect kind of a more normalized environment where there's a bit of a negative delta between the report growth in your actual OCIS revenue growth? 2 good questions.
On the first piece it's a couple of thoughts it's a continuation of what you've seen the last couple of years George.
It is one because we have a unique data asset we are solving problems we couldn't solve before.
Hence the consumers are spending new monies that they never spent before.
So the pie of opportunity has grown clearly.
That's number one.
And number two as we've highlighted in the past we have taken share in different sectors different verticals over the past few years in the U.S.
and that continues to benefit us.
As far as pricing goes we invest a lot of money a lot of time and energy on segmentation bundling strategic pricing and the general trend is an improving trend there.
The spike you're seeing now over the last 6 months or so I'm not sure that's sustainable at this level long term.
That mean -- we -- we'll not continue to invest in strategic pricing but we've got a significant step up as you know.
Where we used to see 1 to 2 points of compression in pricing we're now seeing pricing expansion.
I would think long term it would get closer to equilibrium possibly.
And so we're not counting on the expansion you see now for -- lasting forever.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's very helpful.
And just last question for me.
Can you just give us overall what the contribution for mortgage was in the quarter just overall mortgage business in general? We tend to say that mortgage runs between 14% and 22% of total revenue.
We're clearly in that range we're somewhere in the upper teens for this -- for the first quarter.
And next we'll go to Rayna Kumar with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I'm calling in for David Togut.
Can you please provide us with an update on the Boa Vista merger maybe including the key milestones and where you see the margin outlook for this business? Sure.
I was just down there Rayna.
That was the -- with the team.
It's going as planned.
The integration of products people strategy with customers is all going well culture.
Financially it's going well.
We're in the process now of developing a medium-term new platform IT platform for the business.
So it's sitting on all cylinders.
It feels good it's been well-received in the marketplace by our customers as well.
So it's on plan as we expected and hoped for a year ago.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Also what is your revenue outlook for TALX maybe breaking it down between Verification Services and Employer Services? And where do you see this business progressing from here? We don't break a forecast down to that level but I think I gave you a number earlier.
So we expect it to be for the year in the upper single digits.
A strong growth this year.
And next we'll go to Eric Boyer with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just on your guidance what's the implied operating margin now with the raised outlook? When we talked earlier I think it was first quarter when we had our last call our commitment was to get a 25 to 50 basis points improvement year-on-year and that was a -- a long-term goal not just a short-term goal.
So that still stands.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with the increased revenue I guess you're just investing more into the business? Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked a lot about analytics.
Recently you mentioned it was 10% of International revenue.
What's that number for the entire company? And also you talked about organizational changes you're making around analytics talent.
Can you talk a bit more about those changes and then the opportunities you're seeing with the analytics overall? Actually we don’t break out the total percent of revenue coming from analytics.
We just typically give you the numbers as a percent of the data that comes to us -- just one of our analytical platforms.
But I gave you the International just as a -- some insight that the analyst is really making a big difference in the International platform.
Specific to the organizational change yes we had to spearhead activities across the company.
No uniform standardized approach analytics.
And we have seen through other structural changes we made if we create one centralized team their ability to exchange ideas and best practices leverage investments in one location for the benefit of other location move talent around so on and so forth just made a lot of sense.
So we've got a great new leader exploring that a guy who's been with us now for a couple of years.
He came from one of the large banks so he led their risk team there really understands analytics and he's building a world-class team to take analytics to the next level for us.
And next we will hear from Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just go back to some of the comments around discretionary spending in general.
It sounded like you had 2 areas where discretionary was a little weaker in the commercial segment.
And it sounded like also in part of the if I'm not mistaken I think it was part of the marketing area as well.
Can you talk a little bit about the dynamics around discretionary spending in those areas? Is this typical project-based work? Just a color and a dive in terms of what we might be seeing on the discretionary side of the project-based work if you will? Yes I'd say it's -- whenever you look at project-based work it tends to be lumpy Julio.
At times that lumpiness can be to our benefit.
At times that lumpiness can be to our demise.
And just some larger projects that both the marketing side of CMS and on the risk side of CMS was looking at and also in commercial just didn't manifest itself in the quarter.
So -- I don't think it's -- it's not something systemic that I'm worried about long term.
It's just uneven as a short term [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the commercial side -- sorry I guess on the marketing side is there any way to sort of isolate whether the lumpiness in the project base sort of is coming out of any particular vertical.
I guess the financial services verticals is the one I'm trying to sort of zero in on in terms of just some of the lumpiness here in the project business? Yes.
On the marketing side it was non-commercial.
On the marketing side it is coming out of the advice.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then if you can parse through -- I'm just trying to make sure -- I think just to make sure I understand the drivers of the upside.
I think you gave the number for the NPI contribution but there was also -- it sounded like some pricing and volume components.
Maybe just to help us understand the upside surprise either relative to your own numbers or your own altered expectations.
Was it more volume or NPI? More new client spending? What would you sort of say was the most relevant component there to the upside here? Are you talking any specific business unit or...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well I guess if you wanted to focus on the USCIS part.
Sorry.
I'd say in general terms including USCIS it is a far higher level of execution on our side.
It is NPI continuing to run at very good levels.
It is customers spending more money with us they have not spent in the past.
Obviously mortgage is up as well.
It is truly truly broad-based.
Pricing as you mentioned was a benefit as well.
And I'll be honest we're getting a little help from the market which is encouraging excluding mortgage now because we know that's pretty strong.
I wouldn't describe the market in the developing world as robust by any means but for a couple of quarters now we're seeing a little help from the economy.
Banks starting to lend more consumers starting to borrow more.
So the underpinnings of a healthy business are for starting in the very early stages of -- of moving down the right path and helping the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on the competitive front with the TransUnion transaction that went out.
Any changes in the competitive dynamics that you guys are expected to see at this point or anything you might have said already? No.
2 years it has been and it will be a good competitor.
They got good leadership team good products.
And I think the fact that Advent and Goldman Sachs now own them gives them some cash possibly to do some more things that they would have done in the past.
But we respected them before they were bought by Advent and Goldman and we respect them now.
And next we'll go to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What -- can you guys just isolate what was the constant currency organic revenue growth excluding mortgage? I believe it was around 9% to 10%.
9%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 9% flat? Yes.
Shlomo very simply the mortgage market's combination of initiatives of our own plus the marketing activity was 5% acquisition was about 2% kind of organic non-mortgage was 9% out of -- that's the 16% constant dollar growth ex Brazil.
And Shlomo the nuance in Lee's point that -- which should not be lost -- part of the mortgage growth is the market itself.
Part is we've invested heavily in innovation in mortgage.
We're now selling products this year and last year that we haven't sold in the past.
So a lot of that growth is just our innovation our new products.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
I understand what you're saying.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing from the credit card banks with regards to the underwriting standards.
We're hearing just a bit of loosening is going on over there.
I'd agree with that.
I'd agree with that that they're -- they are showing signs -- and our data shows it they're showing signs of going down market.
Sub-prime credit card issuance is on the rise so -- yes it's nowhere close to what you saw back in the 2004 '05 '06 time frame.
But it's definitely a little more aggressive than you are seeing in 2010 '11.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Are you starting to see some copycats from competitors in there? I missed that; say that again? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In other words are you seeing some banks dipping their toes in and then you're seeing other ones following them a quarter later? Yes.
It's pretty universal.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- you'll like this one Rick.
If you saw the Mortgage Bankers Association Application Index up above 50% how come the mortgage dilutions was only up 26%? That's great.
One if you think about the applications -- and you're right they did -- the MBA -- it was up 50-some-odd percent.
A couple of things are happening: One is that a massive backlog -- many of these banks are locking in for 4 months the rates because they don't have the staff to get out the mortgage applications to convert the -- convert the applications to actual underwriting originations.
Secondly a percentage -- and the GSE's estimate somewhat from 25% and 30% of the volume we are now seeing an application is tied to HARP.
And as you know Shlomo HARP does not require a -- that they pull a credit report at time of initial underwriting.
But they do require it at the time of the actual approval.
So the combination of those two say originations are running at a lagging rate versus applications but a big chunk of that will catch up once they actually get the approval.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So should we see some benefit in 2Q as we see some of that starting to flow through at the back end of those? Yes.
Shlomo I would also point out we have observed periods in the past where the MBA index submerges fairly significantly for some periods from the volumes that we and I think our competitors see.
It's a sampling challenge for the MBA.
And just -- so I would not take the MBA application index as the definitive measure of market activity.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
And then just in terms of the timing of using some of the corporate expenses is that -- on a normalized basis if I'm modeling out for different years when should we expect the equity grants to come? Should we think of it now...
First quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> ...we move from 2Q to 1Q? Historically we're always Q1 and we made that move I think it was 2 years ago Lee? Yes.
About half of the second quarter.
And normally you'd expect us to be on this cycle here which is the first quarter Shlomo.
There may be exceptions to that.
But the norm -- my my preference is and normal protocol would be first quarter.
Shlomo one thing I would also point out just thinking about the corporate line generally we are undertaking some investments in systems infrastructure.
Some things that we deferred through the recession but that are going to help us be more efficient and operate more effectively as an integrated company.
Those -- just the initial piece started to hit in the first quarter.
We're going to see higher levels of that investment later in the year.
So there's definitely a timing element in the first quarter but that doesn't necessarily mean you're going to see a big drop-off in the second quarter because we are undertaking some of the things that are going to continue to allow us to operate as a highly integrated company and bring all of our strengths to bear across of our markets.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is that going to be a permanent step-up in investment spend or is that kind of a 1 to 2 year project? It's probably a 2 year effort.
And next we'll hear from Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's actually Matt Roswell in for Dan.
One quick question and then sort of a longer question.
The quick question is about operating margin increase year-over-year.
How much of that is tied to the Brazil change and how much of that was that of core operating expansion? So we said at the time of the consolidation was it 9 months ago Lee? We get about 100 basis points of margin lift from the deconsolidation of Brazil so you can just simple do the math and the balance is standard operating leverage.
LLC Research Division</strong> So -- I mean was that fully in the first quarter? Because your operating margins were up about 60 basis points year-over-year and that would imply the core -- if Brazil was a 100 basis point tick up that will imply that kind of ex-Brazil margins would have been down year-over-year.
Am I reading that correctly? No.
Our margins a year ago were 23.1% moved up [indiscernible].
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
I see that now thank you.
The larger picture question you've got revenue running ahead of expectations.
Sounds like things are really good.
Where should we see kind of reinvestment in the business this year? What sort of areas and then any changes to kind of capital deployment? I'll take a first stab and you do the deployment piece Lee.
Investment continuing investment obviously in NPI like part of our growth.
Investment Lee just mentioned a second ago investments from some of our systems infrastructure to allow us to operate more effectively and efficiently across the board.
Third to support the growth we'll continue to invest in some stacking where it makes sense particularly in the sales product management marketing pricing arena.
Those would be the 3 main areas.
As far as capital deployment Lee? Really no changes in terms of our priorities.
Where we have appropriate acquisitions we will pursue those.
Appropriate meaning they fit our strategy and we can generate good returns for our shareholders.
Beyond that given where we are on our current capital structure excess capital will generally flowback to shareholders through share repurchases.
Okay operator at this point we'll conclude the call and I thank everybody for their participation.
And we'll be available this afternoon if you have any other questions.
Thanks again.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Q2 2012 Equifax Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time it is my pleasure to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations and with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2011 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will refer to a non-GAAP financial measure adjusted diluted EPS attributable to Equifax which excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and the loss on the deconsolidation of Brazil in 2011.
Since our Brazilian operations were merged with Boa Vista on May 31 2011 we also present revenue growth excluding Brazil to provide a clearer understanding of our revenue growth for those businesses that will continue to be reported in our operating results.
These measures are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Please refer to the non-GAAP reconciliation and our investor -- various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab on our website for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
It's should be no surprise that we are quite pleased with our second quarter performance.
We continue to execute well against our strategic initiatives capturing available opportunities from a cyclically strong mortgage market while continuing to deliver solid non-mortgage organic growth that's consistent with our long-term business model.
Shortly we'll update you on our full year outlook.
But first let's take a quick look at some high-level financials for the second quarter.
Total revenue was $536 million up 10% from the second quarter when you -- excluding Brazil.
Total revenue was up 14% for the quarter and up 15% in constant dollars.
Operating margin was 24.8% up 130 basis points from a year ago and consistent with the model we have laid out for you over the past few quarters.
Finally adjusted EPS was $0.74 a share up 21% from $0.61 a year ago.
Throughout 2011 and the first half of 2012 we have delivered solid non-mortgage organic performance with little to no help from the macro economy in most of the developed parts of the world.
What we've been doing is focusing relentlessly on executing our strategic objectives attracting and developing a world-class management team and leveraging our fierce determination to drive innovation and growth across the enterprise.
For the past 7 years we have initiated a number of enterprise-wide programs which have contributed greatly for a solid financial performance during a period of weak economic and business conditions and to our relatively stronger performance in the most recent quarters when economic and business conditions have been somewhat more stable.
You’ve heard us talk about the following 7 points that I'll go through here in a minute in the past.
But what is important is with each passing quarter these 7 points become more ingrained into our operating DNA and we've become an even stronger company.
I'll go through the 7 points now that we've been focused on now for a number of years.
Number one is an intense focus throughout the company on innovation and growth.
Our NPI process simply gets better every day and we are now developing new targets after reaching a best-in-class level of revenue contribution in 2011.
You've heard us also mention our 4G teams which draw upon some of our best and most talented individuals to develop strategies for opportunities that could potentially generate significant incremental revenue.
Second is our strategic pricing.
Strategic pricing is a proven driver of profitability growth and stronger customer relationships.
Our products typically have a very high ROI for our customers.
With our unique data assets it's very important that we understand this value so we can price our services accordingly.
In 2007 we launched this after hiring some of the best talent available to develop our corporate pricing strategy.
Over the past 5 years strategic pricing has driven significant incremental revenue for Equifax.
By adopting a revenue management mindset we've become more effective at pinpointing the right offer at the right time and the right price.
Strategic pricing is a -- is driving greater pricing consistency and value for our customers while leading to greater value for Equifax shareholders and our bottom line.
Number three we've also developed a valuable discipline and structure around getting the voice of our customer into every product offering.
Through that process the intimacy we develop with our customers gives us an edge in the design and development of unique high-value solutions that will enable our customers to drive incremental revenue growth and profit.
We've also become a more highly valued business partner and oftentimes are presented with opportunities that we wouldn't normally have because of these unique capabilities.
Another fundamental discipline is how we challenge ourselves to continually drive incremental operating leverage as we grow.
This relentless focus keeps us from getting complacent in our thinking.
Our global LEAN COE works closely with each business unit to ensure that we operate at peak efficiency.
They also identify industry-leading best practices that can be adapted to the environment and integrated into our daily operations.
LEAN is but one tool we use.
We also have worked with customers and vendors to ensure that our interactions are the best and most cost efficient that they can be.
Next our strategic M&amp;A is an integral part of our long-term growth model where our objective is to drive 1 to 2 points of incremental growth from strategic acquisitions.
We have developed a very rigorous process of determining the value and understanding the risk of the acquisition how they fit into our existing strategy the incremental revenue opportunities and the most effective way to integrate them into our company and business units.
We mitigate these risks through in-depth analysis and thought always challenging ourselves in developing a detailed set of milestones that measure our progress.
Next is in the service business the quality and depth of your management team is paramount.
Our global human resources COE drives the acquisition and development of our talent across the globe.
We have developed mentoring programs identified high potentials who were given out-of-the-box challenges giving us the opportunity to develop them beyond their current job and devote considerable effort towards rigorous succession planning.
Finally Equifax has a strong commitment to its shareholders.
Just in the last 2 years through dividends and share repurchase we have given back over 50% of our cash from operations to our shareholders.
These disciplines are fundamental to how each of our business units operate and coupled with our strategic initiatives a large part of why we have been able to deliver consistent and strong operating performance in these uncertain times.
Now as I always do I'll go through some highlights for each of the 5 business units then turn it over to Lee for the financials.
In the second quarter each one of our business units continued to capitalize on their respective opportunities.
In USCIS they again delivered impressive double-digit revenue growth while expanding their operating margin.
With some major contract wins in the government sector Technology and Analytical Services delivered strong double-digit revenue growth in the quarter.
We continue to be very optimistic about the opportunities in this sector and believe we have the technology expertise to capture significant market share in ID management solutions.
We also had strong double-digit growth in telco auto and insurance further demonstrate the broad-based appeal of our solutions.
We continue to deepen relationships with many of our financial institution customers by appending unique work number information to their portfolio reviews particularly with credit card lenders.
That's a trend we've seen now developing the past few quarters driving great new incremental revenue for the work number and value for our customers.
We're making great progress with our key account groups.
We call them KCP.
They are the 4 largest banks in the U.S.
It's an organizational structure we put in a few years ago and it's paying great dividends.
That group is now driving double-digit revenue growth year-to-date and deepening our relationships through cross-selling products and services across the enterprise.
International continues to drive broad-based revenue growth as both Europe and Latin America deliver double-digit local currency revenue growth in the quarter.
New product innovation continues to be a key growth driver with year-to-date revenues from new products launched in the prior 3 years coming in above our expectations.
In the U.K.
the team continues to win against the competition by focusing on customer -- on the customer and delivering high-value solutions to meet their business needs.
We're also driving stronger market and client penetration with our Analytical Services offerings.
During the second quarter revenue from all product offerings that embedded our analytical capabilities grew strong double digits.
Workforce Solutions delivered record revenue and profit driven by very broad-based growth across multiple market segments continuing strength in the mortgage market and the acquisition of a year ago DataVision.
Double-digit organic revenue growth in the government auto and pre-employment sectors in addition to mortgage underscores the strength of our year-to-date growth in Verification revenue.
Year-to-date DataVision is ahead of our expectations benefiting from strong mortgage activity but also through new customers and expanding relationships with existing customers.
Finally we are aggressively leveraging our strong market penetration by cross-selling additional products and services which will further strengthen our customer relationships particularly for those who contribute data to the work number database.
North American Personal Solutions had a record quarter and continues to improve its operating rhythm growing its subscriber base minimizing churn and launching high-value products.
ARPU growth continues driven primarily by the new Equifax Complete product suite.
This suite of products provides such features as credit scores from all 3 bureaus unlimited Equifax credit reports and scores identity theft monitoring and debt repayment calculators.
And this year we finally introduced -- or we introduced a family plan version which combines all 3 features for 2 adults and up to 4 minor children.
Launched in the fourth quarter of 2012 customers for -- on the Equifax Complete Family products now account for nearly 50% of our subscriber base.
North American Commercial Solutions revenue was approximately flat in local currency for the quarter.
In this uncertain economic environment a number of key financial institutions demonstrated caution in taking on new customers by reducing new lending activity in the small business sector causing overall transaction-driven revenue to flatten.
In addition project-driven revenue most often related to marketing campaigns for customer -- new customer product initiatives were also flat to prior year as business clients generally are exercising caution in their discretionary spend.
It's a trend that we’ve seen now for 2 quarters in a row.
Again another quarterly performance executing against our strategic vision which we fundamentally believe is right for this company the markets we serve and the investors who depend on us to perform.
And now as always Lee will give you the detailed financials.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll be referring to the financial results generally presented on a GAAP basis.
You should also refer to the Q&amp;A and non-GAAP reconciliations attached to our earnings release for additional financial information.
Overall business execution continued to be strong in the second quarter and mortgage activity continued at an elevated level throughout the quarter.
Three of our business units grew at double-digit rates those being USCIS Workforce Solutions and Personal Solutions.
And our international business excluding Brazil in the prior year grew 9% in constant dollars.
Compared to the same quarter in 2011 for the second quarter of 2012 consolidated revenue of $536 million was up 10% on a reported basis and 14% when Brazil was excluded from 2011 revenue.
Excluding the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates constant dollar revenue was up 11% or 15% excluding Brazil.
Our operating margin was 24.8% compared to 23.5% for the second quarter in 2011 and diluted earnings per share attributable to Equifax was $0.62 a share.
Excluding the impact of acquisition-related intangible amortization and the 2011 loss on the deconsolidation of Brazil adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax was $0.74 a share up 21% from $0.61 in the second quarter of 2011.
Moving to the individual business units.
U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $230 million up 19%.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $153 million up 20%.
Over 50% of the growth was broad-based organic growth driven by new products overall growth in transaction volume from existing customers and certain pricing actions implemented in the second quarter of 2011.
The remaining growth came from the mortgage sector.
Second quarter online volume was up 9% driven primarily by double-digit growth in our key client program and channel partners who resell our products primarily into the auto and mortgage markets.
Average revenue per transaction was up 4% in the quarter.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $41 million was up 51% compared to the second quarter a year ago both mortgage reporting through new products and for transaction volume.
And Settlement Services delivered strong growth in the quarter.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $36 million down 9%.
Revenue suffered in both Credit Marketing Services and IXI as some large projects were canceled or moved to later in the year.
Our market tracking indicates that bank card new account openings are only up modestly over 2011 following strong growth last year as financial institutions evidenced some caution in their new account marketing given macroeconomic uncertainty.
The operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 38.3% in the quarter up 36.5% from a year ago.
Equifax international's revenue was $119 million in the quarter.
Excluding Brazil following its deconsolidation in the second quarter of 2011 reported revenue grew 4% and local currency revenue growth was 9%.
By region Latin America's revenue was $46 million.
Excluding Brazil from the prior year comparison reported revenue grew 7% in U.S.
dollars and 12% in local currency.
Growth again was broad-based across product categories as Consumer and Commercial Information delivered high single-digit growth and Technology and Analytical Services and Marketing Services delivered strong double-digit growth.
Europe's revenue was $41 million up 6% in U.S.
dollars and up 11% in local currency.
Strong double-digit growth in Analytical Services Personal Solutions and Workload an acquisition we made a year ago offset some weakness in our Information and Marketing Services segments.
Canada Consumer Information revenue was $32 million down 2% in U.S.
dollars and up 2% in local currency.
And international's overall operating margin was 29.2% up from 26.1% in 2011 reflecting primarily the deconsolidation of Brazil in the second quarter of 2011 and margin expansion in the U.K.
For the quarter Workforce Solutions revenue was $115 million up 20%.
Verification Services with revenue of $63 million was up 42% for the quarter.
Approximately 60% of our growth was organic and broad-based with strong double-digit growth in mortgage pre-employment and government uses.
The remaining 40% of our growth came from the acquisition of DataVision in August of 2011.
Employer Services revenue was $52 million flat compared to last year as strength in our automated transaction services offset weakness in Talent Assessment and Tax Management Services primarily due to lighter unemployment compensation claims activity.
The Workforce Solutions operating margin was 23.4% up from 21.6% in the second quarter of 2011 largely due to the strong performance of Verification Services.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $51 million for the quarter up 12%.
Continued double-digit growth in U.S.
B2C subscription revenue and in Canada resulted primarily from greater penetration of our higher-value higher-priced product offerings as well as from growth of subscribers.
Operating margin for PSol was 29.8% up from 27.7% in the second quarter of 2011.
North America Commercial Solutions revenue was $20 million down 2% on a reported basis and down 1% on a local currency basis.
Transaction-based revenue was essentially flat when compared to the prior year as telecom and manufacturing sectors continued to perform well but financial institutions pulled back on new lending in the small business sector.
As with the 2 prior quarters project-related revenue declined reflecting the weakening conditions for small business operators.
The limited availability of qualified applicants a lower rate of spend on capital equipment and a lower inventory level in anticipation of fewer future sales were major contributors to a significant decline in the Small Business Optimism Index reported in June and right now we're seeing the impact of that in corporate marketing efforts to small businesses remaining cautious.
The operating margin was 14% down from 20.9% in the year-ago quarter as the anticipated pickup in revenue did not occur as expected.
Corporate expenses were up 25% compared to the second quarter in 2011 due to investment in enterprise-wide infrastructure and growth initiatives and additional incentive compensation resulting from better-than-expected revenue and profit performance.
And our corporate tax rate of 35% was modestly better than expected as a result of the slightly lower foreign tax rate and contributed $0.01 to company earnings per share versus our expectation expressed in the end of the first quarter.
Now let me turn it back over to Rick.
Thanks Lee.
Let me close briefly -- by briefly recapping the first half of the year and then share our general outlook for the second half and I'll discuss some expectations specifically for the third quarter.
By any measure we had an outstanding first half of 2012 with 15% revenue growth and 21% adjusted earnings per share growth.
This performance was well above our long-term growth targets aided by obviously a strong mortgage refinancing market in the U.S.
and strategic pricing initiatives some operating leverage initiatives in the first half and obviously continued great execution against our growth strategies across all business units.
As I kind of frame up the second half of the year for you let me do this.
Let's go back to our last earnings call.
In the last earnings call we talked about the total year coming in between 10% and 12% top line with EPS growing at 2 to 3 points faster than that.
Where are we today? We're now saying that our total year growth is slightly higher than that.
Total year growth will be between 11% and 12% with that same earnings per share acceleration of 2 to 3 points faster than the 11 to 12 points.
So largely in line with what we talked about in the first quarter earnings call with slightly higher revenue.
Why is that? As we sit here today we now expect the mortgage refinancing market in the U.S.
to be slightly stronger in the third quarter than we had anticipated on the last call.
That'll give us a little more growth in the third quarter.
Now also as you look the balance of the year -- and by the way we expect the mortgage market as we did on the last earnings call to start to decline in the fourth quarter of this year getting more in line with our expectation of our budget which is double-digit decline year-on-year.
Also as you think about the balance of the year we're going to be comparing our revenue in the mortgage sector to a much stronger third and fourth quarter a year ago.
So we expect the mortgage market to be obviously growing at a slower rate in the second half of the year than it did in the first half of the year.
In addition as we've mentioned before we have now anniversary-ed some of our strategic pricing and operating initiatives that I've mentioned a few times.
Consistent with this view and incorporating our second quarter actual results our constant dollar full year outlook for individual business units has improved modestly.
I'll go through those one by one now.
We expect USCIS to deliver double-digit revenue growth at a slightly higher level than we thought previously.
Workforce Solutions is now expected to deliver double-digit growth for the year versus our last call where we said upper single digit.
Personal Solutions is also expected to deliver double-digit revenue growth for 2012.
Commercial Solutions where we've encountered a much tougher business environment than we originally anticipated will likely be in the low single-digit range for the full year.
International when you exclude Brazil should continue to deliver low double-digit growth in constant dollar growth for the year.
And again for the full year we expect the company when excluding Brazil to grow top line between 11% and 12% and for adjusted earnings per share to grow the additional 2 to 3 points that we talked about.
And again this outlook assumes mortgage remains stronger and in the third quarter returns to the budget levels which is down double-digit for the fourth quarter.
For the third quarter assuming current exchange rates and the continuation of the mortgage activity we experienced this past quarter our outlook for revenue growth from continuing operations is between 9% and 11% and adjusted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be between $0.71 and $0.74 for the quarter.
Finally an important scheduling note is on December 6 we're going to be hosting an Investor Day.
We’d love to have all of you come.
We'll be at the New York Stock Exchange as we did hosted a few years ago back in 2006 and '07.
A lot more details to be forthcoming but I wanted to give you a heads up now so you can get this date on your calendar.
So with that operator we'd like to open it up for questions for Lee and I.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from George Mihalos with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you guys could break out for us what the overall contribution revenue was from mortgage.
And how much of the 14% growth specifically came from that? Yes.
The -- remember the long-term goal and range we've for mortgage has been somewhere between say 14% and 20%.
We're in that range.
It's somewhere over 19% for the quarter and of the total growth over 6% of it comes from mortgage.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then can you guys talk a little bit about the operating leverage that we saw in USCIS? I think sequentially your operating margins there were up something like 180 basis points.
And you had contribution from mortgage which should be...
George I'll let Lee address that.
Let me go back to one point I think it's important for those on the phone to really understand.
There is no doubt that the mortgage refinancing market is a benefit to us.
It's important to understand though it's not just the market environment itself.
And you've seen the story from us for a number of years.
We're out there developing a lot of new products in the mortgage market products we never had before.
Dann Adams over at the TALX team at Workforce Solutions is taking his team and penetrating new mortgage customers that we've never sold to before gaining more share of new customers where he had lower penetration in the past.
So it's not just the market itself.
It's things we're doing to become a bigger better player in the mortgage market.
So it's a combination of market and us.
It’s important that everyone understands that.
Lee you may want to address the leverage in USCIS.
Yes George.
In USCIS mortgage products there's really 2 classes of products.
One is we do sell credit reports through resellers to other providers who provide tri-merge reports.
So when we get mortgage activity in that part it’s high margin.
We also have the tri-merge reporting and our settlement services where we have third-party expenses in our cost structure.
Those are relative to our average lower margin.
The average of those 2 runs about 50% incremental margins on mortgage so part -- one of the reasons you're seeing good leverage even though a portion of our growth is mortgage-driven is we do get a slight pickup relative to our average margin when we're growing in mortgage.
Obviously the pickup is stronger when it comes in some of our other pure information offerings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And just last question for me.
Lee maybe you can talk a little bit -- the corporate expense line was higher than what I was looking for at least.
How should we think about that expense line over the back half of the year? Yes.
I think what you've seen is that our corporate expenses are up -- they're actually up quite a bit in the first quarter and some of that was a timing consideration.
We're up about $7 million year-over-year in the second quarter.
Some of the same factors are going to play through the rest of the year.
I think if you think of it as being up $5 million to $7 million a quarter over prior year you're going to be in the right range.
Our next question will come from Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I was just trying to back in -- you said mortgage was 6%.
I think acquisitions were around 2% contributors and then we had a constant x Brazil revenue number of 15% so that would imply you back all that out you're running around a 7% non-mortgage constant organic number.
First of all is that right? Dan if I refined it just slightly it's probably about equally 6.5% mortgage 6.5% core and 2% acquisition.
But yes you're in the ballpark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I look at that 6.5% I think last quarter you're running at 9%.
Prior to that was 8%.
Prior to that was 7%.
Prior to that was 6%.
Prior to that was 4%.
So this is kind of the first quarter where we’ve seen this broken-up trend that you guys have had.
And I'm just wondering what you would call out as -- that calls for that.
Well one thing we've talked about in prior quarters is one of the drivers of our year-over-year growth were some pricing and operating steps we took in the second quarter last year and that were greater than the typical.
I mean we're always pursuing those kinds of opportunities but these were a couple of things that were greater than the usual scale and that we would be anniversary-ing those largely in the second quarter.
And that is probably the biggest single impact.
But Dan I think it's also important to put it into context with the kind of -- we've given which is our long-term models at the core non-mortgage organic growth to be between 6% and 8%.
You can have fluctuations quarter-to-quarter.
I see no alarming trends anywhere.
At 6.5% that's clearly in the range we had expected and I think you'll continue to expect to see that range going forward between 6% and 8% in the balance of this year and next.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's a good number.
The -- I just wanted a little more clarity on the SG&amp;A number.
I know you talked about I guess sales commissions being up but it was definitely a much higher number than I had anticipated.
What else is driving that in the current quarter? And is that an elevated level that we need to be thinking about for the remainder of the year? Yes.
We have stepped up our investment spending in a number of corporate initiatives particularly infrastructure investments.
We have just recently done a worldwide conversion in our HR information system to one common system.
We are in the process of investing in upgraded billing and financial reporting systems and are continuing to make some investments in reducing the overall risk profile through some IT investments to strengthen our overall infrastructure.
So...
And Dan these are consistent investments we've been making and talking about now for a few quarters.
It's always important to put this into context too.
These are not a massive enterprise-wide best-of-business kind of investments.
They’re very targeted projects that will make us a better more efficient business going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 quick ones.
The -- we've been hearing recently a little bit that some of the auto finance guys were moving downstream into subprime.
I know that's very good typically for kind of the velocity of the applications that you guys get pooled.
Is that something that you're seeing? Would you call that out? Or is that kind of one-off on some of the people we're talking with? No we’re seeing it.
Auto is strong for us across the board and going down market is a part of that contributor.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly Rick could you just comment on the congressional letters that were -- in the New York Times they were all talking about it.
Your thoughts about what they're asking for? Yes.
It's -- it was old news.
I love reading it so many times so many different periodicals.
It emanated yes I think maybe a month ago out of the I think it was called the Columbus Dispatch where it was first written.
And what you see now is a number of different newspapers regurgitating the same story.
It's nothing new.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So this wasn't incremental.
I got it.
Yes.
We'll go to Carter Malloy with Stephens next.
Research Division</strong> So first off on the mortgage questions from earlier how much of that mortgage growth is in your 3Q guidance? Just trying to get a sense of the delta between this quarter and next.
If you could maybe split out one the mortgage growth and two the deceleration headwind from inorganic from DataVision? Yes Carter I'll deal with the first part of that.
The -- we are expecting roughly similar mortgage activity in the third quarter.
But if you think back to last year the third quarter was when mortgage activity really picked up.
So the first half last year was very soft.
The second half is very strong.
So the key comparison in the third quarter is relatively consistent mortgage activity but a much more challenging comparable.
That means the comp -- the contribution of growth will drop by I would say 1/3 to 1/2.
In other words instead of contributing a little over 6% it's -- in a growth for the company in the second quarter it'll be probably 3% to 4%.
But that's one of the reasons when you think about the step-down in revenue that we have led people to over the course of this year some of it's because of the pattern of revenue growth last year.
Carter repeat your question on DataVision.
I missed that.
Research Division</strong> Sure just that comes -- that rolls into organic growth this quarter as well in August I believe you said so what's the pointage [ph] headwind of that? Contribution of acquisitions in the third quarter I think is probably going to be closer to 1% than the 2% we reported.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then on the PSol side of the house continuing to see acceleration there and really good performance in that business.
Can you give us some more color as to why you guys are continuously outperforming in that market and if we should expect that to sustain? Yes.
In the latter part yes we expect that to continue as I [indiscernible] on the guidance for the balance of the year.
Trey and his team have done a marvelous job of understanding ARPU positioning new products building new products understanding churn reducing churn.
They have got great operating metrics to run that business.
Subs are on the rise so it's a -- done a great job and we expect it to continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly on the commercial side.
Looks like we're expecting somewhat of a pickup in the back half.
Are you guys anticipating improved small business lending on the transaction side? Or are there just some projects that you're expecting to actually flow through? Yes.
I don't expect any significant market-based improvement.
I expect a little bit of execution some more benefits from new products some projects that we didn't get in the first half of the year to come in the second half of the year.
So it's going to be a modest improvement but the expectation is we get back to low single digits mid-single digits in the second half of the year.
We'll go next to Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Lee you like to speak about 25 basis points of margin expansion a year eventually reaching a goal of 25 to 26 kind of in your long-term plan.
Obviously huge success in the quarter.
We're at 24.8.
So we're essentially at 25.
Do we have to revisit this? Or is that still the expectation that maybe we'll go from 25 to 26 25 basis points a year? Or is that conservative now given where we are? No.
I think one thing to keep in mind is that when we deconsolidated Brazil last year we got a significant pop.
So I think our outlook for this year reflects the fact that very strong margin improvement in the first half of the year is a result of those compares that still included the lower-margin Brazil business.
And then I think we're really on trend over the next few years for that roughly 25-basis-point expansion.
And one thing I'd point out and you can really see it we've had a couple of questions already this morning on the corporate line.
We are making the kind of investments to create a platform as a company to support the kind of growth we think we can drive.
Some of those investments are to drive that growth itself.
Some of those investments are to create the foundation to support that growth.
And to grow at the rate we think we think the investment level we need is such that a margin expansion objective in the range of 25 basis points is the right objective.
And Andrew as we've said a number of times I think it's always -- context is always important.
At 25% margin we're in the top quartile of the S&amp;P 500 already.
So it’s a balance of doing margin expansion and top line growth.
And I think it's a good mix good balance.
We'll go to Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to pick up on that thought about margins and the ability to continue to drive the expansion there.
I was kind of thinking of it more from the other side if things were to get materially worse from here what levers would you guys have left to continue to protect the earnings per share growth from here? Yes I think we have a proven capability as we experienced back in 2007 '08 and '09 to cut costs rapidly and leverage tools like LEAN.
We truly have a world-class LEAN operation here Julio and there's a lot more juice to be had in LEAN across business units and COEs across the world.
So God forbid if we go back into a significant meltdown like we did in 2008 this team has proven they know how to cut costs and they know how to deploy LEAN across the company.
So we would do that again.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just sort of on that more entire thought process here.
Thinking about balancing some of the cyclical headwinds against those long-term targets that you guys have set.
It sounds like there are definitely some drivers in your model that are sort of I guess I’m thinking of it more as countercyclical maybe even secular in the way that they're contributing.
Can you sort of parse out maybe the issues that you think will allow you to kind of power through from a top line perspective any cyclicality as we go forward from here so pricing and the KPIs for example? Yes.
Actually that's a great question.
I think the key and the thing that's helped us thrive the last couple of years and to get through the recession before that is innovation.
Our team is innovating.
I think I mentioned in my opening comments innovating extremely high level now on the NPI and the 4G strategic pricing bundling products.
That's at an all-time high.
And the challenge I gave the team now is now that you’re at kind of that best-in-class threshold let’s recalibrate.
And if 10% of revenue goes -- coming from products that didn't exist 4 years ago is today's result what should tomorrow’s goal be? And it's got to be something higher than 10%.
So continuing that level of innovation and strategic pricing and bundling is key for us.
The other thing too is to think about is we do have the benefit of having a diverse mix of customers products business units and geographies.
And there's no doubt that's an advantage to us today and will be an advantage in the future as well.
And one thing specific Julio you may recall that our Employer Services or Tax -- particularly Tax Management component of our Employer Services business and Workforce Solutions grew at double-digit rates in the last downturn.
It is very directly countercyclical.
Obviously the big drivers -- the strategic things we would do but it certainly helps to have a $200-million line of business that's going to actually report stronger growth in that environment.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
We hate to see it moving up but we understand it's on your model [ph].
It's certainly not what I go home and hope for.
We'll go to Bill Warmington with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a couple of questions about the online CIS.
You mentioned that the revenue per unit I think was up 4%.
I just wanted to ask for some color there in terms of unit volume and mix.
Yes.
The unit volume and mix well the volume's up 9% and our revenue per transaction on the specifically measured volumes was up 4%.
We also had some benefits that get us up to the total 20% growth due to -- and some of the subscription revenue some newer products that are priced on subscription basis which are showing nice growth as well as some of our pricing shows up below the measured volume level.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And then I wanted to ask also if you could talk a little bit about the dynamic you're seeing in the consumer financial products market in terms of what's happening on the demand side that you referenced around the consumer side and then also from the bank's point of view the supply side in terms of wanting to put out those products in this environment.
Yes good question.
I'll take that one.
If you look at the core credit Marketing Services suite of products that we have and you exclude one particular customer I’ll come back to that in a second they actually displayed good core growth in the upper single digits for the quarter.
We have one customer who's been a good customer of ours for a number of years who's taking a step back financially and trying to reassess their financial capability and where they want to deploy capital and it slowed down dramatically their purchase of products.
And I think that's going to probably last through the balance of this year as they get their financial house in order Bill and then they'll come back in 2013.
So the core CMS business is actually doing quite well.
We're seeing an uptick in card as an example when you think of acquisitions.
So it's really focused on this one particular client who stepped back.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then I just wanted to ask how the NCTUE+ database was doing how those sales were going.
Great.
Very well.
We'll go next to Eric Boyer with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> You talked some about the pricing efforts anniversary-ing this quarter putting some pressure on the growth rate.
When you think of the long-term revenue framework of the 6% to 8% non-mortgage growth how many points of that are you expecting to come from future pricing initiatives on an annual basis? We don't break that out but it's important to make sure you understand we talk about -- we're very proud what the team has done on pricing.
And we always get better -- we talk about it being in millions of dollars significant every year.
What we had this last year was a series of efforts was very unique.
And that unique large chunks of revenue that came through I don't see that repeating but we're always going to be out there thinking of bundling products segmenting and ROI for our clients to make sure we maximize the price.
We'll always get some but just not what you saw in the first half of this year and the second half of last year.
So -- but we don't break that out specifically Eric.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it looks like the constant currency growth rates moderated a bit across geographies in your international segment.
Is that being impacted by the pricing initiatives anniversary-ing as well? Or is that mostly due to the macro conditions? No the pricing initiatives that I referred to that were kind of unique if you will that were anniversary-ed are the U.S.
Just what you're just seeing is a slight moderation in the macroeconomic environment around the world.
But it’s still very healthy.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then could you just remind us again about that appending unique work number trend that you're seeing? Yes what we’re doing with the work number is we’re working with the large banks and taking attributes off of the work number file or records and appending those to the credit file or the card issuers and it's helping them make better decisions.
So it's not entire work number that's appended.
It attributes off of the work number file appended to the credit file and then the card issuers are using that to make better decisions.
It's really exciting.
We'll go to David Togut with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update Rick on the progress with the Boa Vista merger? I guess specifically where does the joint business stand financially? And when do you expect to reach profitability in Brazil? We're spending a lot of time with that group with or partner TMG with Boa Vista with ACSP down there up here.
We're doing best practices sharing trying to now build the product capability we built here NPI integrating systems and getting out in the marketplace making sure the marketplace understands the value of the 2 getting the data assets.
So across the board it's going well.
Culturally as you know it's a long process to get a new culture up and running.
But I’d say at this juncture it's at our expectations from an integration perspective.
As far as profitability -- let me back up.
As far being received in the marketplace David the marketplace loves the idea of having a bigger better stronger more viable competitor than we were separately.
As far as financials and profitability obviously we don't consolidate that so it's not fair for me to talk about their financials at this juncture.
Research Division</strong> Well just in terms of understanding the financial impact of the business on Equifax do you have a sense of when that business make start contributing to the profitability of your company? Well there’s obviously an opportunity at some juncture to dividend back and we own as you know 15% of the company.
So I think at any case -- and Lee you can jump in.
It’s a de minimis impact over the next -- where you're going to get the real impact is when we have the opportunity to increase our ownership from 15% to something far larger.
But at 15% a dividend back to us would be de minimis.
Yes the comment on dividend of course with the 15% ownership we're accounting for that using the cost method.
The only revenue or profit we would recognize is our share of dividends.
And we don't anticipate material dividends in the near term.
They have some continuing investment opportunities in the business so we would expect probably likely until we buy up in our position that the contribution to P&amp;L is de minimis.
Research Division</strong> When can you buy up from 15% and to what level? Well there's -- as you remember there's no magical structure to it.
It's our desire.
It's their desire they being TMG to exit and our desire to enter.
So there's no mathematical formula there’s no predetermined timeline.
When we think it's the right time and integration is fully complete and they think it's the right time from value those negotiations will begin.
Research Division</strong> Just final question.
How much of the operating margin expansion in the quarter year-over-year was driven by the Brazilian deconsolidation? We talked last year.
That would be about 100 basis points.
A little less because there was just 2 months in the quarter so 70 or 80 basis points probably.
We'll go next to Jaime Brandwood with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to start by going back to an earlier question relating to your use of work number data to enhance credit files in USCIS.
Just so I understand it when you’re enhancing credit files in that way and then selling them to credit card lenders are you booking all of that revenue in USCIS? Or does some of that revenue get booked in the Workforce Solutions division? Yes.
No when we append a work number a series of attributes to the credit file that revenue is recognized back at Workforce Solutions and Dann Adams’ business not USCIS.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that forms part of the kind of cross-selling benefits that the Workforce Solutions division is seeing I guess? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking again at the underlying drivers to the Online Consumer Information Solutions division looking more at the kind of change from Q1 to Q2 so I think in Q1 you've said your OCIS volume was up 16% and now it's up 9% in Q2.
And likewise I think your average revenue per transaction was basically flat in Q1 and now it's up 4% in Q2.
Can you help us understand the changes from Q1 to Q2 that drove those changes? I'm not sure there was any particular factor.
I think we did see a little bit of a moderation in lending activity in the quarter.
It is still -- obviously still positive to last year but not quite as strong as the momentum we had coming into the year.
Research Division</strong> But any credit reports that you would be selling to resellers that would then be selling those credit reports onto mortgage lenders you would be booking that volume growth within that 9%.
Is that correct? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then just turning to your balance sheet.
I mean you're delevering pretty rapidly.
Certainly wouldn't expect you to comment on anything specific but I'm just wondering generally as you think about your M&amp;A pipeline is there anything on a kind of 6- to 12-month horizon that might require a slightly greater level of investment that could see you relever that balance sheet up? Or is the M&amp;A pipeline pretty empty at the moment? No.
The -- we always talk about trying to deliver 1 to 2 points of revenue growth coming from M&amp;A strategic acquisitions.
That's currently our look as well so I -- no need to deviate from that.
Our pipeline is strong around the world.
We'll go next to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Steven Shui in for Shlomo.
Just to get back to OCIS can you break out how much of that growth was from mortgage and maybe how much of it was from NPI and a cyclical tailwind? Mortgage is about 9% of online growth.
Online was 20%.
9 points were mortgage.
We -- as I said some of the pricing and operational improvements that contributed were in the low single digit.
What I would describe as kind of core growth was around 7% and that's kind of a combination roughly half and half between some new products and new customers versus just market growth.
And Steven as I mentioned earlier maybe you heard it's -- when you think of mortgage you can't just think of mortgage as the market dynamics itself.
USCIS is a great example.
We're going to be launching new products routinely in the mortgage space that didn’t exist a couple of years ago and that’s fueling a lot of the growth as well.
So it's not just the market itself.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also to the commercial credit business that didn't improve as expected and it sounds like macro is a huge factor there.
But were there any signs of intensifying competitive pressure or additional pricing pressure at all? No not at all.
There's -- as you might guess we routinely look at market share one business lost business price compression price acceleration.
No it's just an overall more sluggish segment of our business than we had anticipated.
But again as I mentioned earlier we expect that business for the total year to end up in the low single-digit growth.
So we expect a better second half than we've seen in the first half.
And our last question will be from Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rick you talk about this year EPS growing 2 to 3 points faster than revenue.
When we look at all the puts and takes for the long term of tax rate share repurchase et cetera do you think that relationship is sustainable? I mean if you're putting up the 6% to 8% revenue growth that you talk about core that earnings should be growing 2 3 points faster than that.
Absolutely.
That's the financial model that we've thought through and built here and we communicated to our investors and to the sell-side guys.
That's a -- through the combination of capital leverage and operating leverage that we get as a business we should expect that 2% to 3% to continue for as far as the eye can see.
Andrew one thing I would point out.
You phrased the question in terms of 6% to 8% core growth or organic growth and 2 to 3 points of leverage on top of it.
Of course our model is 6% to 8% organic on average 1 to 2 of acquisition plus 2 to 3 points on top of it.
If we didn't do any acquisition we'd get a greater -- we'd add that same growth through share repurchases instead of acquisition.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes.
I'm just thinking about all the factors that can affect EPS in aggregate just trying to triangulate to the sustainability of that.
And tax rate was a bit of a tailwind in the second quarter.
Should we think about the full year as still being around that 37% rate? I mean the guidance maybe implies that the tax rate bumps back up in the second half.
I would say the tax rate for the year is probably between 36% and 37% but not the 35% of the second quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So that's -- and that's probably the go-forward tax rate somewhere between 36% and 37% as we look out into future periods as well.
Right now I would say that I would tell you if anything the pressure on tax rate is probably slightly upward.
States are looking for ways to add revenue and many times it's not major legislation and changes in tax rates but things they allow disallow.
And frankly we're seeing the same from our friends in Washington.
There's not been any major tax legislation but boy are they trying to disallow certain things that have been done in the past.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Rick how would you characterize the contribution from NPI rest of world I guess Europe in particular? Is the momentum that you referred to in the first quarter continuing? And what are some of the things you can do to -- that can potentially maintain double-digit constant currency revenue growth especially if the economic environment continues to deteriorate over there? Yes.
I meant what I said.
The -- I said a few quarters in a row now that the contributions of NPI are extremely broad based.
It is not just every business unit.
But specific to it -- to your question on international it's every country.
And international is running above 10%.
You remember our goal was to get to 10% of revenue coming from products that didn't exist over the last 3 years.
They're above that so they're at the higher end and doing a great job.
And that's why you're seeing growth in really tough economies like Iberia and the U.K.
It's because of NPI and the expectation is that continues.
And we have no...
I appreciate everybody's time on the call.
We'll be available throughout the day if you’ve got any other questions.
Thanks again.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's presentation.
We appreciate your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Q3 2012 Equifax Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge with Investor Relations.
And with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we will be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2011 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will refer to a non-GAAP financial measure adjusted diluted EPS attributable to Equifax which excludes acquisition-related amortization expense.
These measures are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Please refer to the non-GAAP reconciliation in our various investor presentations posted in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab on our website for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Our team posted yet another really strong performance in the third quarter.
Our strong performance again reflects the breadth and the balance of our business model.
Our customers increasingly value unique products and services we offer and our team is always focused on driving sustainable organic revenue growth in what is a challenging economic times.
Strength in the mortgage refinancing activity aided our results as well but we're also seeing for the first time strength across the new home sales in the U.S.
which is encouraging and I think bodes well going forward.
Even in our mortgage offerings just as in the rest of the company we're also gaining market share through introduction of new products and increased share of wallet from enhanced service delivery.
For the quarter our core organic growth including growth initiatives was 7.2% which is in the middle of our long-term organic growth range that we've communicated for quite some time now being between 6% and 8% so solid on the organic growth.
For the quarter revenue was $544 million up 11% in the third quarter of 2011.
On a constant currency basis revenue was up 12% which is above the range we gave during our second quarter call.
Operating margin was 24.3% compared to 24.8% in 2011.
When you exclude severance expenses in our International business which was not anticipated at the time we gave our guidance for the third quarter the operating margin was 25%.
Finally adjusted EPS was $0.75 a share up 16% from the $0.65 we delivered last year.
And we transition quickly to each of the business units.
Each of the business units continued to successfully address the needs of the markets with high-valued solutions.
We've adopted our new product innovation strengthened our strategic initiatives streamlined our operation and strengthened our management teams to ensure we meet our commitments to both our customers and our shareholders and the team continues to execute at very high levels across the board.
It's been a constant theme now for the last couple of years.
Strong double-digit growth in USCIS was broad based.
In addition to new relationships we developed in leveraging our unique data assets and our proprietary technology.
We continue to compete based upon our track record of product innovation to secure long-term relationships and greater penetration and do customers' business activities.
As an example continuing our success in the insurance arena we won a new multi-year deal with over $5 million.
We've become more more bullish in the U.S.
around the insurance sector for our long-term growth.
In our traditional financial institution sector we have been selected by a top bank top 4 banks in the country for a multi-year agreement to provide data for an enterprise-wide database platform to support their analytic and modeling development activities.
This project will leverage many of our unique data assets our proprietary data linking technology and many of our Decision 360 product offerings.
This is really exciting.
This will allow us to get in there and co-develop with our customers new products to solve new problems for them in the future and financially very very lucrative for us.
Sticking with USCIS we continue to have great success with our proprietary ID and fraud management solutions including Anakam's two-factor authentication solution.
We signed 3 different contracts with the U.S.
government in the quarter and these 3 contracts represent over $5.5 million in first year revenue.
Moving onto International.
In spite of a challenging economy in Europe which I think you all are very well aware of and a modestly declining or slowing economy in Latin America the International delivered solid growth.
7% organic growth in Europe and 9% organic growth in Latin America.
So really troubled economies as you know in Europe and to post those kind of growth rates is very encouraging.
Operating margins remain very strong as they continue to systematically leverage a consistent set of operating principles across all of our geographies introduce new products and enter new markets.
International routinely develops and introduces new high-value solutions into the markets as reflected in their NPI Vitality Index which was 11% of total revenue for the third quarter.
In the U.K.
we leverage our InterConnect platform in a head-to-head competition to win a new large telco customer.
Finally revenue continues to be driven by the growth of over 20% in our high-value Technology and Analytical Services offerings.
Our Technology and Analytical Services growth rate in International has been fantastic in the last couple of years and leads the way globally at 20%.
Workforce Solutions continues to make great progress in growing its actively employed Work Number database while broadening its service -- served verification markets and further enhancing relationships with the HR departments who report into The Work Number database.
Active records in The Work Number database were up 6% year-over-year as a result of adding a record 161 new companies and the increased hirings from our existing contributors.
Great traction there.
Earlier this year we launched an enterprise-wide go-to-market initiative leveraging our USCIS sales force to increase the penetration of all Equifax products with our client base including The Work Number.
To date this initiative has generated almost 3 times the revenue growth target we set for verification services.
So already this team is gaining great traction and leveraging all of our products with a very aggressive focus on The Work Number.
We were recently awarded 2 multi-year contracts to provide Social Services Verifications.
The first contract includes verification services for a state's food stamp welfare and child support enforcement and Medicaid eligibility services.
The other contract provides verification services to an agency of the federal government for disaster loan eligibility.
These are both excellent examples to how we enter new markets with new services leveraging our existing data assets and operational infrastructures.
In this case The Work Number.
Finally the IRS has selected Workforce Solutions as its first pilot vendor to deliver eTranscript.
The service is designed to streamline the process of delivering 4506-T information to verifiers in real time at the request of the taxpayer enhancing the time lists and the value of our services.
Moving onto North American PSol.
They continue to drive strong revenue growth and above-expected operating margins.
PSol has developed a very good operating rhythm with metrics that are reported and evaluated real time every day.
They focus intently on growing the subscription -- the subscriber base increasing ARPU managing churn and reducing our cost per account acquired.
As a result our subscription-based revenue has now reached 68% of our total revenue and margins continue to be very strong.
North American Commercial Solutions continues to be challenged by weak demand from many of its project-oriented services particularly in the marketing area.
As we indicated last quarter this trend is likely to continue in the near term as banks and other financial institutions pull back on its small business lending activity.
However the risk side of the business continues to be very strong which we will get into in a few minutes.
For many years now we've been executing consistently on our strategic plan accumulating a diverse portfolio of data assets mine the mass of data and extracting relevant insights through sophisticated analytics and delivering our solutions to proprietary decisioning platforms.
Increasingly our customers are recognizing the true value we can bring to their daily business operations.
In short we are winning market share and growing revenue nicely as a result.
As you've seen over the course of the year our solid year-to-date performance demonstrates the effectiveness of our business model and our strategy in a more volatile competitive environment and how rigorous operating principles underpin the consistency of our business performance.
So in short another really solid quarter seen in this third quarter.
Lee if you go to the financials now that'd be great.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I will be referring to the financial results generally presented on a GAAP basis.
You should also refer to the Q&amp;A and non-GAAP reconciliations attached to our earnings release for additional financial information.
As our customers' environments evolve we continue to drive revenue growth by addressing their needs with a unique combination of data analytics and decisioning technology.
Our performance this quarter was broad based and ahead of the expectations we set as we entered the quarter.
Compared to the same quarter of 2011 for the third quarter of 2012 consolidated revenue of $544 million was up 11% on a reported basis.
Excluding the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates revenue was up 12%.
Operating margins was 24.3% compared to 24.8% for the third quarter in 2011.
In the quarter our International business unit recorded a severance charge which we had not previously planned to better align its resources with our future business needs.
When you exclude the severance expense the operating margin is 25.0%.
Diluted earnings per share attributable to Equifax was $0.64 a share.
Excluding the impact of acquisition-related intangible amortization adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax was $0.75 up 16% from $0.65 in the third quarter of 2011.
As I noted the quarter included $3.7 million before tax or $2.4 million after-tax of severance expense in our International business unit.
We also benefited by $3.3 million from income tax benefits.
Neither of these 2 items was anticipated at the beginning of the quarter.
The net impact of these 2 items added just under $0.01 to earnings per share.
Moving to the individual business units.
U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $233 million up 15% year-over-year.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was up -- was $157 million up 16%.
Third quarter online volume was up 5% driven primarily by continued growth in credit card auto and mortgage lending.
Average revenue per transaction was up 4% in the quarter driven by a shift in mix of volume.
Our remaining growth came from services beyond traditional credit reports including direct-to-consumer monitoring services and new product offerings priced on a subscription basis.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $43 million was up 35% compared to Q3 2011.
Both mortgage reporting and settlement services delivered strong double-digit growth in the quarter.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $33 million down 4%.
Credit Marketing Services revenue was up approximately 7% while IXI declined as revenue -- as financial institutions reduced their use of wealth-based data in select applications due to regulatory uncertainty that we are currently addressing.
The operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 36.9% up from 36.6% in the third quarter a year ago.
Our International business units revenue was $121 million up 2% on a reported basis and 6% on a constant dollar basis.
By region Latin America's revenue was $47 million up 4% in U.S.
dollars and 9% in local currency.
Strong double-digit growth in Technology and Analytical Services is offset by softness in marketing services and Personal Solutions.
Chile recently passed legislation that changed the permissible use of consumer information having a negative short-term impact on our revenue in that country.
We are implementing some mitigating initiatives but the near-term pressure in revenue growth in Chile will continue.
Europe's revenue was $42 million up 3% in U.S.
dollars and up 7% in local currency.
Strong double-digit growth in Analytical Services and Personal Solutions helped to offset a decline in our consumer and commercial information segments which were impacted by the generally weaker economic conditions.
Canada consumer information revenue was $33 million flat in U.S.
dollars and up 1% in local currency.
Strength in Technology and Analytical Services particularly in fraud services offset weakness in Consumer and Commercial Information Solutions.
International's operating margin was 27.4% down from 29.3% in 2011.
Excluding the severance charge mentioned earlier the operating margin would have been 30.4% in line with past quarter's performance.
For the quarter Workforce Solutions revenue was $117 million for the quarter up 14%.
Verification services with revenue of $69 million was up 33% for the quarter approximately 80% of our growth was organic and broad based with strong double-digit growth in mortgage consumer finance preemployment and government uses of verification services.
The remaining in organic growth resulted from the acquisition of DataVision in August of 2011.
Employer Services revenue was $48 million down 5% compared to last year reflecting weakness in both tax management and Talent Assessment Services.
The Workforce Solutions operating margin was 24.4% up from 23.0% in the third quarter of 2011 once again due to the strong performance in verification services.
Our North American Personal Solutions revenue was $51 million for the quarter up 13%.
Strong growth in our higher-value products and further penetration in Canada were the major contributors to this performance.
Operating margin was 32.1% compared to 32.8% in the third quarter of 2011.
North America Commercial Solutions revenue was $21 million down 2% on a reported basis and down 1% on a local currency basis.
Double-digit growth in U.S.
risk activities was offset by a double-digit decline in our U.S.
marketing activities as lenders have continued to be cautious in the small business segment.
The operating margin was 18.8% down from 23.6% in the year-ago quarter reflecting continued investment in building our capabilities despite lack of near-term revenue growth.
Corporate expense was up 18% compared to the third quarter in 2011 largely driven by investment in enterprise-wide infrastructure and capabilities as well as additional incentive compensation resulting from better-than-expected operating results.
Our corporate tax rate in the quarter was 33.5% down from 36.2% in the same quarter of 2011.
Excluding the unanticipated discrete tax benefit in the quarter the corporate tax rate would have been 36.3% consistent with our recent past.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Thanks Lee.
Let me just give you some closing comments then we'll jump to some Q&amp;A.
I'm proud of this team.
This team continues to execute at very high levels allowing us to deliver yet another solid quarter.
As you know I think you agree we have the broadest array of powerful consumer data assets in our industry.
We've invested heavily over the years in linking this data together as well as linking together second and third-party data.
We're also investing in our analytical expertise to ensure we develop an absolute best insight out of that data.
And as I stated earlier our strategy is really resonating well with the customers in every sector in which we serve.
We're now operating from a position of real strength to continue driving solid organic revenue growth for the foreseeable future.
You'll hear more details about that when we have our Investor Day in December up with at the New York Stock Exchange.
As we enter the fourth quarter we see the same fundamentals continuing and now expect this momentum to continue into 2013.
And again we'll discuss in great detail the strategy and the outlook for 2013 at the Investor Day.
We now expect full year 2012 revenue growth for the company excluding Brazil to be at or above the top end of the 11% to 12% range we quoted during the second quarter earnings call.
And for adjusted earnings per share growth additional 3 to 4 points as a result of operating in the financial leverage.
This outlook assumes that mortgage marketing continues at its present rate for the remainder of the quarter and in fact I expect the mortgage market to continue well into 2013 at this juncture probably at least through the first 2 quarters of 2013.
For the fourth quarter assuming current exchange rates at a continuation of the mortgage activity we've experienced our outlook for revenue growth from continuing operations is expected to be between 8% and 10% adjusted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be between $0.72 and $0.76 per share for the quarter.
And finally we are looking forward to visiting with you at our Investor Day on December 6 with the Stock Exchange.
Given the strong positive response to date I'd encourage you to respond RSVP at your earliest convenience so we can be sure to accommodate everyone's interest because we're -- a limited number of people can actually host in the facility.
For those of you who don't -- won't be able to attend in personal we'll be webcasting it and taking questions from our web-based audience during the Q&amp;A session.
So again we hope we can see you there on the 6th of December.
Operator if you would please open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Andrew Jeffrey of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Lee there's been a little bit of volatility in the USCIS operating margin.
Could you elaborate a bit? You were up above 38% last quarter and right around 37% this quarter.
Is there any seasonality or anything else we can kind of tease out of those results to discern a trend as we go forward here? Andrew I think a couple of things.
The most important is actually the mix of business as we flow quarter-to-quarter.
For instance from Q2 our IXI business unit because of the way they deliver their services tend to have the strongest quarters in Q2 and Q4.
And when they get -- but their expenses are relatively ratable through the year.
So IXI will contribute much more strongly to margin in Q2 and Q4.
As we move from Q2 to Q3 IXI revenue fell off as they always do.
And we made up some of that with mortgage.
But as we increase mortgage revenue that also drags along with it some direct cost.
So simple things like mix quarter-to-quarter a little bit of seasonality Q2 and Q4 as a result of IXI.
There will be some fluctuations when mortgages surging versus moderating some.
Those are some of the factors that cause quarter-to-quarter fluctuation.
We really don't try to manage quarterly margin at a business unit level.
There are too many things that can intervene.
Obviously we do try to drive consistent performance at a total company level but the business units will tend to fluctuate.
Andrew Rick here.
Just to reinforce Lee's point I think if you look at year-to-date trends so 3 quarters year-to-date 2011 versus 2012 you'll see a very positive momentum.
If you look at third quarter of 2011 versus third quarter of 2012 you'll see positive growth.
And to Lee's point with the IXI and mix changes you'd expect to see a nice move up in the fourth quarter on the margin as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes strong volume cures a lot of ills doesn't it? It also sounds like perhaps there's a shifting mix that is benefiting your overall pricing.
Maybe it's a change in contract structure.
I know you sort of have a rationalization or a reset of price last year? Could you just talk directionally about how you see your pricing both specifically for Equifax but also in the context of the overall sort of competitive USCIS environment? Yes One thing Andrew we've talked about now for years is that we continue to invest heavily in our strategic pricing team and we get great results an increasing result out of the team each and every quarter.
That team is focusing on bundling of our unique data assets to maximize the value we can bring to our customers and the price we can bring to our shareholders and profit to our shareholders.
So I'm pleased with what they're doing.
I'd say we're still at the early stages but even though we've been out now for 6 years I think there's a lot of runway left for us on pricing.
Yes and Andrew I'd add a couple of things first.
Certainly pricing has been important and we've talked in the last couple of quarters about some pricing initiatives from last year which we're seeing flowing in in our results this year.
Second there is a mix issue.
When mortgage is particularly strong our pricing into the mortgage sector tends to be more attractive than for instance into the credit card sector.
So you can get some mix effects.
The third thing again a different element of our strategy is we introduce additional products and services.
Some of those are add-ons to the credit report revenue we already have and that causes our combined average price to rise.
And whether that's in what I've described as some of the services outside of pure traditional credit reports but flow-through USCIS you see that addition to revenue growth on top of just pure unit price.
We're actually working to come up with a little better way of measuring our average revenue per transaction but you're seeing the effects of all 3: Pricing the mortgage mix tends to help us when it's quite strong but also product initiatives that we've been driving for several years.
We'll go next to Dan Perlin at RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Rick you called out strength across new home sales the post refinancings and there's a lot of obviously questions around mix in mortgage.
Can you just -- can you help us understand a little bit what the dynamics might look like if we saw that trend in new home sales versus refinancings accelerate both in terms of absolute dollars of revenues per those types of transactions and then the margin implications? Yes Dan one of the things that's important to note that the new home sales are in fact strengthening.
It's on even -- depends on where you are in the country but overall it's strengthening from a very low base.
We still have a long way to go.
So again I think it's an encouraging thing if you think about mortgage.
We have a long way to go before we get back to the historical levels of 2004 '05 '06 and even '07.
And then we expect that to continue to improve at a modest rate in 2013.
We expect refinancing as I mentioned before to continue to improve -- to continue at good levels for the first -- at least first 2 quarters of 2013.
The point I'll make there is I said in my opening comments we are innovating at very very high levels across the company including mortgage.
We have a team in the mortgage business that has got great domain expertise and their ability to build new products and new solutions in the mortgage market is helping us grow regardless what the mortgage market itself does is encouraging.
As I think about margins I don't see a significant difference in margins for refinancing versus that of original home sales.
Those tend to be about the same.
There are some nuances there but generically about the same.
And the margins for the new price obviously tend to be a little low as you start off and grow over time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as we think about kind of setting the business up from -- we look at your incremental margins you guys have been producing and we adjust them this quarter they've been pretty consistent.
A little bit below 30% a couple of points.
Is that you think a sustainable level? And I guess what I'm trying to get at is you've had a lot of moving parts in this year when we kind of compared margins and try to adjust them as investments.
There's Brazil there's mortgage hyperactivity.
And I'm just trying to make sure I understand the trajectory as you think about the business going forward not to steal any thunder at the Analyst Day but is the incremental margin at call it 25% to 30% is that a sustainable level? Let's see if I can answer your question this way.
We made a commitment that we see a path of continuing to grow year-on-year on margins about 25 basis points a year while continuing to grow or investing organic growth.
If that's the heart of your question yes.
I see the trajectory line continuing at that 25 basis points for 2013 and beyond.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And let me just ask 2 other quick ones.
You called out insurance becoming more important.
I would be interested to hear a little more detail around that.
And then also you called out kind of these co-development deals which sounds pretty interesting and pretty good for margins.
So I'd be interested to hear a little more about that if you could please.
Sure.
On insurance I think we've mentioned that -- boy you're testing my memory now.
I think it's been a few years ago we had a large win then.
We've really pulled back in the insurance sector post the divestiture of ChoicePoint with our unique 360 data assets.
We looked at that marketplace a couple of years ago became intrigued won a couple of nice pieces of business.
So it's a continuation of what we announced then Dan it's just really leveraging the data 360 assets to add value and solve problems that others in the industry cannot solve.
We're hiring some very good people and learning here as you get people really understand the verticals -- in this case insurance.
They bring great value and immediate value to us there.
So the combination of good expertise and unique data assets is proving valuable in insurance.
As it relates to the co-development yes that is encouraging.
I mentioned to you there it's allowing banks to co-develop with us to develop insights from their data and our data to build new solutions.
That alone is manifesting itself in immediate revenue.
But the most exciting thing is as our customers get into our data assets and co-work with us we are convinced that can lead to future new products down the road.
So the incremental revenue as we look forward 2013 and '14 with these large banks.
I think it's very very encouraging and we're leading the way there with these large banks which is neat.
And we'll go next to Julio Quinteros at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you just touch on 2 things? One on the government opportunities.
I think this is the first time I think I've heard you guys talk a little more directly about Anakam and some of the multi-factor authentication capabilities there.
So I was hoping to see a little more color on that front and then -- let me just stop there and then I can follow up with the second one.
It is -- you're right we really ramped up our efforts in the government sector when we bought Anakam maybe 2 years ago.
They brought not only product capabilities that could help us solve identity fraud issues with different arms of the government -- and I'm not going to go into a lot of details which arms they are -- but number two it brought the context and the ability for us to actually open the way towards the combination of the Anakam two-factor authentication with our -- of our data assets and a product we called eID kind of bundling of those 3 products together is really gaining great traction across a multitude of government entities which is really encouraging.
Research Division</strong> Is there any way to take that to the commercial marketplace  or is there a sense there that that can be ported over to commercial enterprises as well? Yes great question.
Yes the answer is yes.
If I think about the traction we're getting with the combination of those 3 efforts again two-factor authentication knowledge-based decisioning off of our database and then eID it's -- we are going to take it to government health care and the FIs.
There's a clear need in all 3.
Research Division</strong> Switching gears over to the International front.
At least relative to our numbers a little bit lighter in terms of the revenue performance some puts and takes as you think about the rest of this year and maybe even next year where would you sort of highlight any key risks obviously Europe? But is there anything in particular that you would point to where there could still be some risks on the International revenue growth front? Let's see if I can answer by putting some color on what's occurring in our International.
Again I think it's important to your baseline the fact that in Latin America we're still growing 9%; I think it's very very encouraging.
Number two growing 7% on a local currency basis in a very troubled European market is encouraging.
I didn't mention Russia.
Russia we have just great great success in Russia and great success in India as well as you think about International.
Go to specifically maybe some themes that are occurring in the International footprints.
There's some regulatory uncertainty in a couple of places in Latin America and in Canada that the team is now working through.
But that regulatory uncertainty caused a slowdown a temporary slowdown in a couple of markets.
So while the underlying market might have been a little stronger the regulatory uncertainty caused a slowdown for a few quarters.
And we're going to work through that and the team's done a great job of that.
And we'll hope to get through that uncertainty as we exit 2012 moving to 2013.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Presumably the severance charges and some of the things you try to do to realign the business will help protect the margins as we go forward through that? Yes.
And we'll go next to Georgios Mihalos at Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to start off a sort of a housekeeping item.
On the 12% constant currency growth is it about 500 or 600 basis points that came from mortgage -- is the math right there? It's about -- we'll look at Jeff is here.
Is that about right Jeff? It's about 1% acquisition about 4% mortgage.
Actually a little less than 4% and a little over 7% core and initiative growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
Got you.
And then Lee you were talking about some of the regulatory issues in Chile.
Is there a way to think about how much that impacted growth in the LatAm region? Was it significant? I don't have the exact calculation but for Chile it's obviously important.
For LatAm and for the company as a whole it's relatively de minimis.
And we haven't broken that out.
And again I think the most important thing to think about there is we've got a great team working with the different branches of the government in Chile -- in fact in all parts of the world -- to get through these regulatory uncertainties.
So I'm confident we'll do so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned the subscription portion of PSol going up to 68%.
How much higher do you think you can really go from this level? Yes it's a pretty good level there.
I think 68% to 75% seems to be a reasonable target for us and a target we're comfortable with.
And we'll move next to Eric Boyer at Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Rick you talked about the revenue growth within mortgage not just being about volume increases but the product innovation that you guys have been doing over the last couple of years.
Do you have a rough sense of the revenue growth from those new products versus the mortgage market strength you're seeing? I don't think we break that out.
Lee do you have those numbers by chance or directional? Yes.
If I look at the total of USCIS it growing at about 15% about 7% or so is mortgage market about 2 points are some of the major pricing initiatives from a year ago but we're looking at 5% or 6% just pure organic initiative growth.
Looking specifically I think mortgage growth is from new products.
Out of the mortgage sorry.
I don't think -- we don't break that out.
I don't have it off the top of my head.
But here's what you should note.
I said a little earlier that we have a really solid team in mortgage.
They've got deep domain expertise.
They are churning out new products in an unbelievable rate leveraging all the different unique data assets we have.
And I can tell you this: For the mortgage business in the U.S.
it's a nice piece of growth.
I don't remember the exact numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just as on the revelatory issues they're different than the IXI regulatory issues that you've been talking about.
Is that correct? When we talk International correct.
There's stuff going on in Chile or Canada -- is much different under than the IXI issue.
And the IXI issue is worth just spending a second on.
It is being driven around uncertainty not a regulatory decision at this juncture.
It's uncertainty around where regulation might go specific to a couple of attributes within the database specifically age and location.
So we're working with our customers to modify models that are as predictive to take some of the areas where they're concerned or where regulation might go out of the equation.
And we're very hopeful that we get that resolved very soon.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean you really don't have to reposition IXI in any type of major way? No.
We've already proven statistically that if we modify the model to exclude the attributes that they're concerned about it is as predictable as the old model.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just finally can you give us a little more detail around the severance charge you took in the quarter? It's nothing significant.
It's nits and nats as a number of people across Latin America just trying to reposition the company for the future needs a little bit in the U.K.
Nothing -- no one thing is significant and no one thing is really strategic.
It's a small number relative to our size of the business $3.7 million.
And next we'll go to Andrew Steinerman at JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> 2 quick questions.
One the 8% to 10% for the fourth quarter what would be the constant currency number? And the second you talked about regulatory uncertainty in Latin America; you called out Chile.
Wasn't there a very recent positive data change in the law in Brazil? Do you consider this a very monumental change for the consumer credit reporting industry in Brazil and when do you think the kind of uptake will occur? Andrew this is Rick.
I'll let Lee get the constant currency growth rate for the fourth quarter in a second as it relates to Brazil and the positive data ruling.
It's important you look back in time and you go back 5 years ago.
We and others were very bullish at the time that positive data would be forthcoming and will be a catalyst to revenue.
Here we are 5 6 years later and we're still muddling around and trying to determine what that really means and when the revenue might be forthcoming.
Strategically there's no doubt about it.
When the country moves to positive data it is a good thing.
It helps them with risk-based pricing and that has proven to be a catalyst for growth in our industry.
At this juncture I'm still in the sidelines.
And my view is it's probably 2 years or so maybe 3 years away before you actually start to see revenue traction from positive data in Brazil.
It's a number of years beyond that before you see significant revenue.
Lee you got...
Research Division</strong> And is that because it takes the consumer credit reporting companies time to use that data? Is that the 2- to 3-year lag? It's more than that.
It's also getting the government to determine if it's opt in versus opt out what are the policies and rules behind it.
Just declaring you're going to have positive data doesn't mean much.
It's getting underneath that and understanding what that really is.
And right now they're leaning towards a opt-in.
So in other words the consumer has to prove you're using the positive data that's number one.
Number two it does take time for us and others to build the database so you can actually use the database on positive data.
Lee you have the constant currency? Andrew based on our current view on FX rates we think the constant currency growth is probably going to be about 0.5 point lower than the nominal.
So if we're saying 8% to 10% reported revenue growth in the fourth quarter constant currency will be 7.5% to 9.5%.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And we anniversary-ed all the acquisitions so that's also the organic number right? That is correct.
Correct.
And we'll go next to David Togut at Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us an update on the status of your discussions with computer sciences with respect to the possible exercise of the right to put the credit services joint venture back to you? Dave as you know we don't talk about acquisitions.
But I mentioned I think it was last -- a number of times with you and others that their CEO Mike Lowry has made a statement a number of times in the public domain that he is interested in disposing of noncore assets and we hope that he would see this franchise in the middle part of the country as noncore.
And if he does we stand prepared to work with him and hope we negotiate a deal.
Nothing more than that.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Then just as a follow-up Rick can you bring us up-to-date with respect to the financial performance of Boa Vista? And in particular related question will there be any impact in your view of Experian's buyout of the remaining 30% of Serasa in Brazil? Our team which is down in Brazil this week -- in fact they're still there and come back tonight.
We have -- we have a board meeting down there this week and we'll make -- continue to make really good strides on all fronts.
So as far as operational integration product development systems platforms pricing strategy so on and so forth building the NPI process down there all those things are working well.
We've got a really good working relationship with ACSP TMG and Boa Vista along with Equifax.
We still remain very interested in making that platform a success going forward.
As it relates to Experian buying out now up to 99.6% of Serasa no that has no bearing on our strategy or our optimism for the market going forward.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a sense of what Boa Vista's revenue growth was in the quarter? It's no -- we don't consolidate so I can't.
But it's growing nicely we leave it at that.
And our next question comes from Carter Malloy at Stephens.
Research Division</strong> On the CMS business you talked about IXI.
But can you strip out the core credit marketing business and tell us about trends within that? And then what sort of a leading indicator that is or that it provides you guys for OCIS? Maybe you could even tease out how important cards is to OCIS as well.
I think we've mentioned somewhere in either Mike's question to Lee is the core credit marketing business what we used to call CMS so excluding IXI had good growth in the quarter with a solid 7% for fourth quarter.
Carter I missed the last part of your question.
Research Division</strong> So first of all sorry to repeat that you said that the core CMS -- or IXI declined and the core CMS actually grew really nicely.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> And is that a change from last quarter? If so does that provide you a good leading indicator on the card piece of OCIS? Well again we answer it in 2 ways.
One is that you got fluctuation seasonality in IXI throughout the year.
You have a very strong fourth quarter relatively strong second quarter and modest performance in first and second.
So yes there was a change in marketing in IXI in the third quarter versus second quarter that will be driven the natural fluctuations you see in IXI.
As far as card card is okay.
Our prescreened is up solidly.
Portfolio Management is up solidly.
But the overall card market still remains a little sluggish.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you tease out how important cards is to the overall OCIS segment? I don't have that off the top of my head.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is it safe to say it's the majority of revenues there or approaching 50% maybe? No I think it's less than 50% -- I don't know.
I don't have a number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also on the mortgage business to go back to that again you guys are very much outperforming the rest of the market there.
So as we step into next year even with a strong first half we're looking at all the forecast calling for down 20% 25% year-over-year next year.
How much do you expect to outperform that market right? So if we use existing forecast today of down 20% does that imply for you guys a 2- or 3-point headwind next year overall? Well one I think you're going to see a changing perspective on the mortgage market as time passes.
The old data you're correct talked about a 20%-ish decline 21% decline.
I think as you exit this year you're going to see the economists MBA and most importantly the top underwriters of mortgages take a different and more optimistic stance.
You've already heard a few of them in their earnings call talk about that.
So I think what you're going to see is far less than a 20% to 25% decline next year.
I think you'll see a strong first half of the year in mortgage and you'll see a weaker second half of the year.
And whatever that number is and as we get maybe to Investor Day we'll have some greater transparency for you Carter.
Whatever that number is yes we would expect our team to perform at a significantly better rate than that market decline and that's because of our innovation.
So if you'd bear with me wait till we get to the December Investor Day we'll frame up for you the stake in the ground that we're putting for mortgage market and that what we expect for our mortgage business.
We'll move next to Manav Patnaik at Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Some quick questions.
First thing could you elaborate a little bit more about what the regulatory uncertainty is in Canada? And also I guess the CFPB has been in the press quite a bit just wondering what your latest discussions with them have led you to believe what's going on there? Let me start with the latter and come back to Canada.
CFPB obviously we're in very close contact and communication with them.
Their whole focus now as it relates to us and our industry is that governance and ensuring that we have a proper governance structure in place to comply with any potential new regulations that would be forthcoming.
So we're spending some time and energy just making sure that our governance process governance structured governance communication governance cadence is proper and the team is making really really good strides there.
So that's where a lot of our energy is right now with CFPB.
There has been no clear mandate or new regulations imposed at this juncture.
Stay tuned.
As we learn obviously we will use this vehicle and others to communicate to you.
But I think the team's done a great job.
We'll continue to do a good job of responding to and reacting to CFPB.
As it relates to Canada it's always important to put it in perspective too because the regulatory impact there when you look at the entire company was de minimis.
It focused on the mortgage market and regulatory change in the mortgage market which did impact the mortgage business in Canada.
The mortgage business in Canada is small relative to the total business.
I think Lee it's 15%-ish 20% in that range.
And the specific regulation that came out in Canada I don't remember exactly what it was.
Lee you might.
The issue in Canada did not -- actually has nothing to do with our services to the mortgage market.
The Canadian financial authorities are trying to reduce -- has reduced the bubble or any risk of a mortgage bubble and they have increased required down payments and made some other changes to deflate the real estate market a bit.
The amortization schedules on mortgages have now been brought in from 30 years to 25 years so payments were up a little.
And they're just trying to make sure that they don't get a mortgage bubble.
But what that's done very short term is slow the demand in mortgages.
So it really is actions by the government to avoid the bubble but it has weakened mortgage demand.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess in terms of the free cash flow guidance I guess you had given earlier and CapEx as well can you maybe update us? Is there some seasonality you expect in the fourth quarter with those in issue? I think you had said $240 million to $260 million and CapEx $75 million to $95 million all those end up being below what you guys come up with.
I think the CapEx is probably heading to a lower number than $95 million.
I don't actually remember the number but it's probably pretty linear through the year.
CapEx to date is about $50 million that would project out to about $70 million for the year.
The -- I'll be honest free cash flow I haven't focused on it as much on.
Our cash flow has been strong this year.
And...
Research Division</strong> I guess is there any seasonality in the fourth quarter that would maybe have a drop from the last 2 quarters that you've been pretty strong? No.
The seasonality of our cash flow is first quarter is low because of the timing of certain payments and the other 3 quarters tend to be roughly equivalent.
We've had actually very good working capital management in the last couple of quarters.
We probably can't keep doing that and making gains every quarter but I would expect fourth quarter cash flow to be good.
We'll go next to Bill Warmington at Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions for you.
First just wanted to ask what NPI was running in the quarter.
And then the second was to ask about the Commercial Solutions business just whether if there's anything going on in the competitive dynamics there with D&amp;B that's either hurting or helping the situation.
Yes NPI continues to run strong.
We have a targeted number of 10% for vitality and you always have swings quarter-to-quarter.
But the trajectory continues to be on that same pace.
So it's doing well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So to say how is it swinging in this quarter? That was a good quarter solid yes.
And broad-based too.
Again it's every business unit every geography.
We're still in that 10% range as far as vitality goes.
As far as the market dynamics for Commercial there's no real change there.
It's less about what Experian or D&amp;B are doing in the marketplace.
It's more about the marketing side of our commercial business being slow.
Our core U.S.
risk business in the U.S.
continues to operate well and I'm hopeful.
We gave a guidance it was last quarter but it was the total year commercial would grow in the low single digit.
I'm still committed to that low single-digit number which by default means you have that growth in the fourth quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then I also want to ask you if I could on NCTUE+.
Just to ask about how customers are using that data and what kind of growth you're seeing there.
And then also to ask about the M&amp;A pipeline; you've anniversary-ed DataVision now.
What are your thoughts there? As far as NCTUE+ it is growing extremely well.
It is over twice the size of what the business was last year and we expect it to continue to grow in the future.
Most of the growth initially starts with those building solutions for those companies that provide the data so in the telco utility arena.
We're now taking that database working with our board of NCTUE+ and taking it into other verticals such as FI and insurance.
So if you look long term there's 2 things that happen: we continue to grow the database which adds value.
We continue to diversify away from just the contributors of data to new verticals and that will be propel growth I'm convinced for a number of years to come.
So it is doing extremely well Bill to answer your question.
As far as M&amp;A pipeline the M&amp;A pipeline continues to be very very strong.
It centers all the things we had traditionally looked at which is data sources tuck-in acquisitions around the world geographical expansions analytics.
So it's a strong pipeline strategic pipeline and so it's going well all linked back to our strategy.
And our next question comes from Paul Ginocchio at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Personal Solutions.
You had accelerating growth on a tougher comp.
I'm just wondering if you've seen any pickup in the competitive landscape.
Is there more marketing spend out there for potential subscribers and what's the outlook? Yes it's a very competitive marketplace and we are outspending.
If you just look at the marketing spend of our team versus other very large competitors out there we're outspent multiples what we spent which is remarkable.
When you look at the performance that Trey and his team have continued to deliver by becoming very sophisticated in how they measure churn how they develop new products and the repositioning of the pricing of the products looking at ARPU -- just has done a very good job.
As far as the future yes I continue to see our business as we always said as a double-digit growth business with a 25% plus margins and the teams have deliver that.
We told you that was the goal for our business for a number of years and I see that same kind of performance going forward.
Research Division</strong> Let me sneak one more in on -- I know it's a small region Iberia relative to the U.K.
Is there a wide diversions to the growth rate between those 2 European regions? Yes I don't remember.
The answer is yes.
We find U.K.
growing at a slightly faster rate but they're both in the single digits.
It's not like you've got Iberia in a flat or negative growth rate.
They're both growing at single-digit rates.
And next we'll go to Shlomo Rosenbaum at Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a number of questions just tying up some loose ends from previous quarters.
Last quarter you guys noted that there was a downward trend through the quarter on credit card openings.
Has that stabilized through the third quarter or what did you guys see over there? Jeff you know what? Jeff I'm with you.
Is it stabilized? Yes it's pretty stable.
It's up a little.
We're just looking to Jeff for exact number.
He said yes it's stable versus second quarter and maybe a slight upward trend but nothing dramatic.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So we saw kind of a downward trend through the second quarter and the third quarter it stabilized maybe up a little bit.
That's the way to think about it and that's what you're seeing now? Correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then where are you guys in India in terms of investment versus profits? I mean you've guys had historically given out some metrics in terms of numbers and contributors.
How should we think of that business in general and vis-à-vis the competition over there? Yes Shlomo I will profess I don't remember the exact numbers.
We just had a review on India recently.
Let me give you some color on it and Lee if you remember the exact numbers you can jump in.
If not we'll address it in detail on December 6 at the Investor Day.
Across every operational metric you can think of as far as adding new contributors of data number of records to file companies to file hit rate against the file number of customers testing products all those things are going extremely well and giving us the foundation for which to start building products and actually monetizing it.
As far as financially at this juncture we're still in the phase of investing and building and not yet at the point of breakeven.
Financial breakeven probably comes 1 or 2 years down the road.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what percentage -- I guess this is a metric-based question what percentage of the total company is mortgaged what percentage of USCIS is mortgaged and what percentage of verification services is mortgaged? I'll start with the first and look at my friend to my right Lee to get the others if we in fact break those out if we're not just respond that way Lee.
But as far as the company the company has historically since I've been here been in the range of the teens up to as high as I think 22% of the total company revenue as a percent of mortgage.
Obviously with refinancing being a little stronger now than it was in the past we're around 20% just under -- just over 20% this particular quarter.
So over a multi-year period of time clearly within the range you would expect versus maybe the last few years up a bit.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And do you guys break it out for the other verticals USCIS and verification? We have not.
Broad numbers I think it's between 25% and 30% for USCIS and it's about 30% of Workforce Solutions.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then my last question.
Leverage has been going down not because you guys are necessarily paying it off but you guys are growing.
But still Lee I remember asking you what you were comfortable about in terms of your leverage ratio.
And you said 1.7 to 2.25 1.75 to 2.25.
You are now about 1.
Is that kind of you guys teeing up for a big acquisition? Or just -- can you talk about that a little bit because I mean you could take on more debt and buy back stock if you weren't looking for flexibility in a different way.
Yes I'll jump in and Lee can talk specifically about the capital structure we're thinking.
But you're right I think we said 1.75 to 2.2 or 2.25.
We're at the low end of that range.
And it's always going to go up and down over a period of time as you know.
Someone asked the question earlier how do I feel about -- I think it was Bill feel about the M&amp;A pipeline.
The M&amp;A pipeline is strong and we'll continue to look at obviously paying a strong dividend buying back shares where shares make sense investing on organic growth and M&amp;A.
And at this juncture there is some strong M&amp;A pipeline.
We'd as always like to continue execute against.
So you're going to see it drop from 1.9% 2% down to the 1%.
And you'll see it for a time go back up.
We'll continue to operate within that range and over a short period of time you may have some anomalies like you see now.
I'll just have 2 things.
I think what we've said over the last couple of years has been 1.75 to 2x and my calculation on our current position is about 1.4x.
But that's where it will tend to float from time to time.
Okay.
I want to thank everybody for participating on the call today.
And operator with that we'll conclude the call.
Thank you.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Q4 2012 Equifax Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time it is my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning everyone and welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations and with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section of the About Equifax tab on our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2011 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will also refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures adjusted diluted EPS attributable to Equifax and adjusted operating margin.
Adjusted diluted EPS attributable to Equifax excludes the CSC acquisition fees a pension settlement which we announced during the quarter certain income tax items the loss on the deconsolidation of our Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense.
Adjusted operating margin excludes the CSC acquisition fees and the pension settlement which was a noncash charge.
These measures are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Please refer to the non-GAAP reconciliation in our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab on our website.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
It's hard to believe it's already been 2 months since we were with many of you at New York Stock Exchange.
Hopefully you found that a great opportunity to see our management team first hand get a better understanding of our strategy and some of our key growth initiatives.
Based upon your feedback it appears the insight and outlook we provided you was viewed positive.
We're excited about the growth opportunities that lie ahead.
We want to thank you again for your time and your interest in our company.
As you know we have been intensely focused on the rapid deployment of innovation and the continuous strive to improve our execution.
Our performance for this quarter and for the year reflects that effort.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 total revenue was $558 million up 9.5% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
The adjusted operating margin was 24.9% compared to 24.7% in 2011 up 20 basis points.
And finally the adjusted EPS was $0.78 up 14% from $0.68 a year ago.
Across many dimensions 2012 was a record year for Equifax.
For the first time in our history we surpassed $2 billion in revenue.
We added over $1.8 billion in market value and we closed the acquisition of our largest and last affiliate in the United States CSC Credit Services.
And we broadened our product offerings we also expanded our global presence.
All in all a good year.
Each of our business units has some very noteworthy accomplishments in 2012.
We expect their success last year to fuel the momentum in 2013.
For the year USCIS delivered 16% revenue growth and expanded operating margins by over 100 basis points.
A couple of highlights for USCIS we formalized our enterprise-wide distribution process leveraging the scale skill and scope of USCIS customer relationships that still services by Workforce Solutions North American Commercial Solutions and North American Personal Solutions.
So I could tell you firsthand that the traction that it's gained and the difference it's made in the marketplace is significant and of great value for our customers too.
Secondly in USCIS we expanded our key client program something we introduced a number of years ago.
We have 2 new clients under Tom Madison's leadership and we strengthened the management team with both outside hires and internal promotions.
We also took this model this KCP Service Model into new verticals specifically the telco market to better address the needs of a very large and important market segment to us.
Also in USCIS we expanded our Decision 360 strategy and it's delivering significant wins in the marketplace as we demonstrate and differentiate the value of the unique insights we bring to our customers' critical decisioning needs.
That will continue to be a great focus for us in 2013 and beyond as well.
International.
Excluding the results of Brazil in 2011 International delivered solid constant dollar organic growth of 9% while maintaining 30% operating margins and further penetrating our key markets with new products and services.
Here's a handful of highlights.
We continue to leverage our strong franchise in key geographies with new product innovation growth of our analytics and enabling technology services broadening our served markets and increasing the scale of operations through better IT and organizational discipline.
Despite really weak economies our U.K.
and Spanish management teams relentlessly executed on their strategic initiatives enabling us to gain market share and deliver a 10% local currency growth in revenue for the year.
In Latin America our high-value offerings in technology and analytical services grew over 25% in 2012.
That has been a key area of focus for us now for a number of years across International but specifically in Latin America.
In Russia overall volume growth and new product offerings contributed to a very strong double-digit revenue growth.
And in India we continue to exceed our targets for new contributing members and records in the database which significantly enhances our value of our strategic investments in new products and analytical capabilities.
In fact in India now we have over 200 million records and over 200 different data contributors so again some great momentum in India.
On the Workforce Solutions they had a great year growing 15% and expanding their operating margins by almost 100 basis points.
This was driven primarily by a 34% increase in verification services.
At year end total records in the Work Number database were over 222 million up 6% from year-end 2011 on a clear path to reach 70 million active records and 250 million total records.
This expansion of records will fuel growth for a number of years ahead.
We will further penetrate our served markets by using new product innovation to add new value to those records and through our enterprise selling initiatives.
Workforce Solutions is gaining traction within the financial services specifically the credit card and automotive verticals addressing their needs of the build and pay underwriting requirements.
And we've talked about that for quite some time really taking the Work Number database beyond just mortgage in a new market.
So the credit card and automotive verticals are paying great dividends already.
Additionally Workforce Solutions continues to broaden its focus in the government sector with public agencies in all 50 states and the District of Columbia to support their efforts to reduce improper payments and improve agency services and staff efficiency.
Personal Solutions had an outstanding year with 13% revenue growth a strong 30% operating margin and significant market share gains.
Due to new product launches such as Equifax Complete subscription-based revenue grew 16% and the average revenue per subscriber was increased by 12% from 2011.
We also increased our U.S.
based platform and marketing expertise and brought it to Canada and European operations to accelerate their opportunities with consumers.
As a result U.K.'s personal solutions product delivered strong double-digit growth and significant market share gains in 2012.
The success that Trey [ph] and his team have had by taking these capabilities and bringing them in a stronger fashion to Canada and a new fashion to U.K.
has given us great hope that we're going to in fact take the same approach to other countries around the world and build a Personal Solutions business.
North American Commercial Solutions as we talked throughout last year faced a challenging 2012 with weak market conditions the constrained growth and pressured operating margins.
For the year revenue grew 1% and the operating margin was 22%.
High-single digit growth in our U.S.
Risk segment offset weaknesses in our U.S.
marketing and also Canada.
However they turned the corner in the fourth quarter and delivered 4% growth with continued strength in U.S.
Risk and improved performance from U.S.
marketing.
Commercial strategy to penetrate new markets is starting to build momentum with the pipeline for new business up 45% at the end of 2012 versus 2011.
One of the processes we go through on a routine basis is to review our portfolio.
When we determine that a business no longer fits our long-term strategy we obviously are going to take a divestment strategy.
So over the past week we have divested 2 small nonstrategic business units.
One is Settlement Services which was partly started and built a number of years ago in USCIS and the other Talent Management in Workforce Solutions.
It's a win for us it's a win for the buyers and it's going to be a win for the customers and our employees as well.
Combined these units generated $800 million in revenue last year at margins that were below the Equifax average.
Beginning this quarter first quarter 2013 these units will be treated as discontinued operations.
I should point out that the financial impact of these divestitures to total company earnings per share is nominal and was fully anticipated when we presented the 2013 guidance during our Investor Day at the New York Stock Exchange in December.
I'm proud of the performance the team delivered in 2012.
Some additional highlights: our new product innovation process launched over 60 new products including some insurance scores in the U.K.
family plan and Personal Solutions and many others.
We have now launched over 60 products per year for 5 consecutive years.
We expanded our served markets in Workforce Solutions as I mentioned by introducing products that target the auto and the card markets.
We continue to [indiscernible] and other world-class processes to better control our cost improve operating margin and strengthen our market position.
In fact our reputation and expertise in the area of LEAN and process improvement is being recognized by our customers.
Increasingly customers are asking for our help in deploying LEAN in their operations to improve productivity within and across our respective organizations.
A quick look forward.
Our focus in 2013 will build on the momentum we created in 2012.
A few points for you.
Although it's only been 6 weeks we're off to a really good start with the integration of CSC Credit Services.
It will be known by the way in the future as our central region within our FSC organization which had no problems to date and we fully anticipate a smooth quick and successful integration.
We will continue to leverage Decision 360 expanding and broadening our product services to gain market share.
We'll step up our investment analytics and look for capabilities to further increase the value of our insights to our customers.
We intend to accelerate growth in our fast-growing Fraud and ID Management business.
We will continue to pursue opportunities to acquire or leverage new and unique data resources including unstructured data.
We'll do this through internal development acquisitions and partnerships.
And to ensure that we can support these growth initiatives we'll continue to invest in critical infrastructure initiatives such as building platforms human resources and a standardized international systems platform.
I can tell you this and hopefully you saw it in December.
The energy our team has around these opportunities of growth in front of us are exciting and their desire to win is extremely encouraging.
So with that I'll turn it over to Lee for a deeper financial look at 2012.
Lee? Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I will be referring to the financial results generally presented on a GAAP basis.
You should also refer to the Q&amp;A and non-GAAP reconciliations attached to our earnings release for additional financial information.
As Rick mentioned after year end we divested 2 business units: Settlement Services in USCIS and Talent Management in Workforce Solutions.
The financial results of these 2 businesses are included in our reported fourth quarter results as we had not made firm decisions to proceed with these divestitures until after quarter end.
However these 2 businesses will be reported as discontinued operations beginning with the first quarter of 2013.
To facilitate your modeling for 2013 we have included the impact of these divestitures on their respective segments and total company for the full year 2011 and '12 and quarterly for 2012 in a table included with our earnings release.
Now let me return to the quarterly results.
Compared to the same quarter of 2011 for the fourth quarter of 2012 consolidated revenue of $558 million was up 9.5% on a reported and constant currency basis.
Operating margin was 17% which was negatively impacted by a non-cash settlement -- pension settlement and fees associated with the CSC acquisition.
Excluding these onetime items the adjusted operating margin was 24.9% up from 24.7% in 2011.
Diluted earnings per share attributable to Equifax was $0.38.
During the quarter we recorded several one-time items which are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation.
The cumulative impact of these onetime items negatively impacted GAAP EPS by approximately $0.27.
Adjusting for the onetime items and excluding acquisition-related amortization adjusted earnings per share was $0.78 up $0.10 or 14% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
This includes approximately $0.02 per share of tax benefits and 3 days' results of operations from the CSC Credit Services acquisition which closed on December 28.
Moving to the individual business units.
U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $236 million up 9%.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $148 million up 8%.
A majority of this growth came from a combination of increased volume and improved pricing in mortgage and auto end-use markets while the remainder came from pricing and new product initiatives in other end-use markets partially offset by declines in transaction volume from select high volume but lower unit priced accounts in the financial services market.
Average revenue per transaction was up 17% in the quarter due to the shift in transaction mix toward higher-priced units and away from lower unit price accounts and to increased revenue from subscription-billed products.
Transaction volume was down 9% due to shift away from high volume but lower-priced accounts.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $43 million was up 28% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Both mortgage reporting and Settlement Services delivered strong double-digit growth in the quarter.
Our Undisclosed Debt Monitoring Services continued to deliver strong double-digit growth as we had several new customers and broadened our distribution channels.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $45 million down 1%.
Credit Marketing Services revenue was up approximately 7% while IXI declined as financial institutions reduced their use of wealth-based data in select applications due to regulatory uncertainty which we are now addressing.
The operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 37.4% compared to 37.5% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our International business unit's revenue was $125 million up 7% on a reported and constant dollar basis.
By region Latin America's revenue was $48 million up 8% in U.S.
dollars and 9% in local currency driven by strong double-digit growth in analytical services and marketing services.
Europe's revenue was $44 million up 4% in U.S.
dollars and up 3% in local currency.
Strong double-digit growth in Analytical Services and Personal Solutions helped to offset a decline in our consumer and commercial online information offerings which continue to be impacted by weak economic conditions.
Canada consumer information revenue was $33 million up 10% in U.S.
dollars and up 7% in local currency.
Strength in Analytical services particularly in Fraud Services helped to offset weaknesses in Consumer Information Solutions.
International's operating margin was 29.8% up from 28.7% in 2011.
Equifax Workforce Solutions revenue was $117 million in the quarter up 11%.
Verification Services with revenue of $70 million was up 27% for the quarter driven by strong double-digit growth in mortgage preemployment government and auto markets.
Active employment records increased 6% over the prior-year period and combined with product innovation and end-user market penetration to drive strong continuing growth.
Employer Services revenue was $48 million down 6% compared to last year resulting from continued softness in tax management services reflecting lower unemployment compensation claims activity and a delay in renewing work opportunity tax credits by the federal government which were not renewed until January.
The Workforce Solutions' operating margin was 22.4% compared to 23.2% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Since the federal government had not renewed the work opportunity tax credit program we could not report revenue even though we continue to perform the necessary work for our customers.
With the resolution of the fiscal cliff negotiations work opportunity tax credit program has been extended and we can now record revenue-associated work completed in the fourth quarter.
Our North America Personal Solutions revenue was $53 million for the quarter up 16%.
Strong growth in our subscription revenue the additional penetration in Canada and breach activity were the major contributors to this performance.
Operating margin was 30.1% compared to 30.5% in the fourth quarter of 2011 reflecting increased marketing activity in driving new subscribers.
North America Commercial Solutions revenue was $28 million up 4% on a reported and local currency basis.
Strong growth in our U.S.
risk segment was partially offset by weakness in Canada and our U.S.
marketing activities.
The operating margin was 34.4% flat when compared to the year-ago quarter.
In 2013 we'll be making some adjustments to the USCIS and Personal Solutions which do not impact the reported results of the total company.
However they will impact your modeling and our reported results for these 2 business segments in 2013.
First we have aligned some of our wholesale accounts to be consistent with the current organizational accountability.
As a result the revenue and expense from these accounts will be transferred from Personal Solutions to USCIS.
Since this changes the reported results for these 2 units we have included the impact retroactively for the full year 2011 and the quarterly and full year impact of 2012 in the attachment to our earnings release.
Additionally CSC acquisition Personal Solutions will realize some expense synergies beginning in 2013.
As a result we continue to expect the operating margin trend for Personal Solutions to be consistent with what we presented during the Investor Day at the New York Stock Exchange.
For the full year consolidated revenue of $2.2 billion in 2012 was up 10% on a reported basis and up 11% on a constant currency basis.
Excluding Brazil a non-GAAP measure full year revenue was up 12%.
Operating margin was 22.6% which was negatively impacted by the noncash pension settlement and fees associated with the CSC acquisition.
Excluding these onetime items adjusted operating margin was 24.7% up from 24% in 2011.
Diluted earnings per share attributable to Equifax is $2.22.
On a non-GAAP basis our adjusted earnings per share was $2.97 up 18% from the prior year.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Great.
Thanks Lee.
Some quick comments about the full year of 2013 and the quarter then we'll go to questions.
Back in December during our Investor Day we outlined 2013 and gave you an outlook.
We talked about 10% to 12% revenue growth 20% to 25% growth in adjusted earnings per share and operating margin in the range of 26% to 27%.
We also indicated that we expected the mortgage market to remain relatively strong through the first half of 2013 but then down 15% for the full year.
We also described an economic environment where we expected modest U.S.
GDP growth of around 2% and sluggish global GDP growth of approximately 2.4%.
We continue to be confident in our ability to deliver 2013 results within those ranges outlined in December.
For the full year excluding the impact of the recent -- including the impact of the recent dispositions that we've talked about our expectation for adjusted EPS from continuing operations is between $3.56 and $3.64 a share.
For the first quarter assuming the current exchange rates and the continuation of the mortgage activity we experienced this past quarter our outlook for revenue growth from continuing operations is between 10% and 12%.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations is expected to be between $0.84 and $0.87 per share for the quarter up 20% 24% from the first quarter of 2012.
The negative impact in the first quarter from the 2 disposed businesses that we talked about ESS and Talent Management is approximately $0.01 for the quarter.
So with that operator I'd like to open up for any questions or comments.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from David Togut with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> In the fourth quarter the business segments with the strongest organic growth tended to show flat to down EBIT margins whereas the slowest growing business International actually posted the best year-over-year margin gains.
Can you maybe shed some light on why and how should we think about business segment margins for 2013? Sure David.
I think we've said for a while we certainly worked to drive consistent margin performance on a total company basis but it's very easy to see quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in individual businesses.
USCIS was down 10 basis points year-over-year.
We are making some investments in our fraud product lines there where we see good opportunity.
And given the size of business and it's our biggest but you spend $0.5 million or $1 million of additional investment a quarter and it's 20 40 basis points.
So that pretty readily can explain quarter-to-quarter fluctuations.
So we don't really focus on individual business unit quarterly margins so much is trends over a longer period.
We do focus at a total company level of ensuring that we're delivering consistent performance.
Our expectations on margins for next year across the business units continue to be consistent with what we said at the Investor Day in December.
David just 2 other data points.
One Lee mentioned it on the second fast growth business in the quarter Workforce Solutions as he mentioned the WASI [ph] the fact that we had no revenue at that time but we still had the expenses to produce the WASI [ph] products and then PSol gets fluctuation obviously depends on the level of advertising investment.
But again look at the stuff we gave you for this year 26% to 27% obviously the big business units have got to step up to get there and we're confident they will.
And two as Lee said that will be good as it's going to give you a framework on a multiyear so go back and look at that.
We stand committed to those numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just given the divestitures and some of the restatement I have a couple of quick housekeeping questions if I could.
To what business segment within USCIS are you moving PSol revenue to? That would be the online business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then did Equifax Settlement Services previously rely -- reside in Mortgage Solutions? Yes.
Yes it did.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the Talent Management disposal was that within Employer Services? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And just finally for 2013 do you have a read on interest expense tax rate and D&amp;A? Yes.
Interest expense I'm going to do this one from memory.
Tax rate will be between 35% and 37% for the year.
Interest expense between $60 million [ph] and $75 million for the year and D&amp;A I don't have.
I think my recollection is it's roughly comparable up slightly to this year.
Well actually that's not true because I'm not factoring in -- plus and then add CSC on top of it and I don't remember what that number is.
Research Division</strong> What's the amortization schedule on the goodwill for the acquisition? Goodwill is not amortized.
The bulk of the amortizable intangibles I believe are over about 15 years.
Our next question will come from Manav Patnaik.
Research Division</strong> The 26% to 27% operating margin guidance it seems a little conservative to me.
Can you maybe just help us understand sort of the moving parts there and I guess the confidence in that range? Well if confidence is higher we wouldn't have given you the range.
We talked that range in December reiterate now it's factoring in the benefits of CSC it's also factoring in the fact that we as we mentioned the December we'll take roughly $20 million of the upside and invest -- upside being from the CSC acquisition and reinvest that back into the business for infrastructure needs as well as products to accelerate growth long term.
So you're going to get core organic non-CSC if you will expanded margins in line with the long-term range we gave you a year or so ago 20 25 basis points.
You layer on top of that the CSC benefit and take out about $20 million for reinvestment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I mean in terms of the divested assets I guess you mentioned you had that planned.
What's the outlook in terms of -- are there many other units a few other units out there that potentially fit in that non-core bucket? That's an ongoing process I don't see any right now to be honest.
It's an ongoing process.
As you know over the 7.5 years I've been here we've disposed of DMS business we disposed of a little [indiscernible] business and now these 2 so all relatively small amounts strategic.
But no at this juncture I see nothing else at that non-core description that needs to be disposed of no.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
okay.
And then one final one.
Just on the -- I think it was on the fraud side where you guys had mentioned you guys are going to step up investment there potentially look for acquisitions.
Maybe you could just dip a little more granular into what areas of the fraud that are seeming really attractive at this point in time? Well we think we're uniquely positioned with our unique data assets to be a bigger player.
We're a good-sized player today.
We're over $100 million in the traditional -- between $100 million and $150 million to be exact in the traditional fraud market.
A lot of it with the Work Number does when you have the verification of employment verification of income is the sole fraudulent promise.
We're announcing a new leader a new focus a new team internally to take these historic products we have in fraud build a new strategy to invest.
I think what we're going to see initially is leveraging our current assets to be a bigger faster grower in this marketplace.
We will look at acquisitions if they make sense.
But again as we discussed in December and discussed in many different conferences we think we're really uniquely positioned to be a player here in a much bigger way.
Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank has our next question.
Research Division</strong> Just looking back at 2012 I just wondered if you could give us a split between refi and purchase within mortgage and what was mortgage revenue for the -- or mortgage-related revenue for the entire 2012.
Yes.
The total we've always talked about mortgage being somewhere in a range of 15% to 20%.
It was in the upper end of that range in the upper teens for the year.
Refinancing makes up approximately 70% or more of that business.
And as we talked about as we look at the guidance for 2013 the 15% down year-on-year for the year as we factored into our budget it largely is driven by the assumption that rates do go up and refinancing drops in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And can you split out that upper teens revenue exposure between refi and purchase? Yes again roughly 70% of the total.
And one thing you should know Paul too as you think about your model going forward is that the Settlement Services product that we launched and have just sold will reduce our exposure to the mortgage market if you look back by about 3%.
Research Division</strong> And Lee if I could just ask real quick does the pension settlement help your cost going forward? It had minimal impact on our expense.
Our next question will come from Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rick you've talked about NPI for some time you're obviously gaining some pretty nice traction.
And now it sounds like as an extension of those efforts perhaps strategically you're pivoting toward an increasingly high-value offering to your customers as evidenced in telco with the new USCIS this quarter.
Can you just talk about sustainability of pricing? I think that's something incrementally that is a positive surprise at least to our mind and also talk about that in the context of how CSC will affect the USCIS pricing reported pricing results in '13.
Yes.
Two great questions.
You know Andrew we have been at strategic pricing which is -- for about 6.5 almost 7 years now.
We built a -- I don't use this term loosely a world-class pricing team.
There's a lot of opportunity left still.
And it's not just a matter of picking a price from X to X-plus-something.
It's how you bundle products together it's how you segment your customers properly it's really understanding price elasticity it is new product introduction.
So it's across many different facets and I like to -- we're in early innings of the pricing game here at Equifax.
Specific to CSC and one of the values we talked about a little bit in December is the ability to deploy the things that we think are unique to Equifax on new assets and this asset would be CSC things like process improvement in LEAN but also pricing.
So one of the first things that Rudy and his team are doing is taking the asset base that we've purchased and making sure the pricing team looks at all the opportunities across different customers different verticals and segments and so on and so forth and instilling the same level of discipline there that we have in the core of the business around the world.
So I think there's opportunity for CSC.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it does sound like you're maybe a little more sanguine with regard to the sustainability of your pricing.
Yes.
If you think about our long-term objective of growing the operating margin 25 basis points some of it comes from leverage just gross scale and some of it comes from process improvement and the other key driver is and will be [indiscernible] Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Lee just to clarify did you say 100 basis points roughly of annual EBIT margin improvement in '13? No.
I said we should be in the 26% to 27% range so...
Up from 20 was the last year's rate.
24.7% for the year.
It's 24.7% last year and we're going 26% to 27%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Rick if I might sneak one more in.
Could you just talk about any regulatory expenses? I assume they're baked into your guidance but is there any maybe long tail kind of surprise risk out there? Well maybe I'll start with a broader answer than maybe what you think which is CFPB.
We have regulatory expenses that we manage in every geography we operate and the regulatory landscape around the world is moving at a pace that's unlike anything I've seen in my time here.
The contemplated expenses yes are in our budget.
Specific to the CFPB which is our new regulator in the U.S.
that landscape is still moving.
They were here with us for multiple weeks at the end of the year.
They're going across the industry gathering as much knowledge as they can about the industry.
We don't know yet when their mandate will be published and hence what we've got to do as a business.
But right now what we're doing is spending time building out what we call compliance management organization so the ability to actually be compliant once a mandate comes out.
So I always tell people Andrew we have been heavily regulated throughout our existence.
It's just the cost of doing business.
We're prepared for it and we also look at it on the revenue side by the way as every bit as much of an opportunity as there is going to be a threat.
And what I mean by that if you think about the ability to pay which is a mandate coming out of CFPB look at the policies around mortgage we think we're very uniquely positioned to help CFPB help the underwriters and help the consumers.
Carter Malloy of Stephens has our next question.
Research Division</strong> So first on the slight pickup there in the credit marketing piece -- or the marketing piece presumably with CMS versus IXI is that -- do you see that as a good predictive indicator? Are you seeing card marketing budgets picking up? Is that something that we should see as a positive for growth in '13 in that piece of the business? Yes we've seen card activity steadily ramp up towards the end of the year.
Pre-screened business within that was up double-digit for the quarter which is good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Latin America business can you give us an update on Boa Vista how that business is trending and if and when you guys expect to maybe consolidate that? Yes Carter we were just down there last week and on the integration side it's going extremely well across all fronts.
Being very well received we've met with some of the largest banks in Brazil.
Current customers and customers who want to do more with us.
Reiterating the point to them that we in Equifax are keenly interested in being a long-term player in Brazil.
So across all fronts it's going well.
The time line is undefined at this point in time but stay tuned.
It's an asset I want to control if we can get the asset the right price.
So stay tuned and it's a good market by the way.
Research Division</strong> And it's growing at a decent clip and has a good margin on it? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly to do a quick housekeeping one for Lee here is on the mortgage revenue exposure call it 19% for 2012.
I assume that's with Settlement Services so x Settlement Services your mortgage exposure on a run-rate basis is more like 15% 16% something like that right now? Yes.
Around 16% to 17% -- 19% to 20% this year 16% to 17% next year excluding ESS.
Our next question will come from George Mihalos with Crédit Suisse.
This is Allison in for George.
I had a question on mortgage volume for 2013.
You had previously mentioned an expectation of a 1- to 2-point hit on revenue growth due to lower mortgage volumes.
Has your outlook there changed? Not at this juncture.
We have -- we follow that Allison on a regular basis as you might guess.
We've got an internal economist.
We've external economist we deal with there's external benchmarks that you see and at this juncture it still looks as if though we should expect a reasonable market in the first half of the year and then slowing in the second half of the year for a total mortgage market now being down 15%.
And again if you've followed us in the past we expect that our business will decrease at a lesser rate than that as we drive penetration and we drive new products.
But the market expectation still remains at 15% down for the year.
Okay great.
And then just one more question about Commercial Solutions.
I guess it's good to see it's growing again.
What are your thoughts on the sustainability of that growth for 2013 and what do you think a reasonable long-term target is? I remain optimistic that they have turned the corner I mentioned that the pipeline was up over 40% as they exited the year versus the year prior.
They're executing at a higher level now which is important.
It's critical for them to improve their execution in a tough market environment.
We gave a framework in December at the New York Stock Exchange for commercial which was a multi-year growth bid to upper level.
Yes so I think it's growing this business in the mid to upper single digits is reasonable long term.
Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan has our next question.
Research Division</strong> Lee I wanted to ask you a little bit about seasonality.
When I look through the Equifax longer history it looks like first quarter might have negative seasonality and fourth quarter might be seasonally favored.
Over the last few years we haven't seen that.
And I'm just kind of assuming it's the great recession and the mortgage pickup.
So my question to you is when you look at first quarter guidance here for 2013 does this reflect kind of a return to more normal seasonality or has seasonal patterns changed since last week review trends kind of before the great recession? Andrew I think you're on the right issue.
I think we have returned to something more like normal seasonality.
Historically the first quarter was the -- and our quarters are not that different but the first quarter has typically been slightly weaker than the others and I think that's what we are anticipating for this year.
I would expect the second and third quarters would be the strongest quarters in 2013 and the fourth quarter could be again a little bit softer if mortgage market is slipping over the course of the latter half of the year.
So Q1 and Q4 likely a little softer than Q2 and Q3 in terms of dollar amount of revenue and dollar amount of earnings.
Research Division</strong> And when you say dollar amount you mean sequential right? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then if I could just ask one more question on margins do you feel like margins also have that type of seasonality Lee? Yes.
The middle quarters would probably be the strongest margin quarters for the year.
Research Division</strong> Which one second or third? Yes.
Our next question will come from Bill Warmington with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So first question I just want to confirm you talked about 1% to 2% drag from mortgage and the 10% to 12% guidance.
I just want to confirm we were still looking at 5% or 6% from CSC and 6% to 8% organic to get to the 10% to 12%.
Yes.
If you're breaking out mortgage separate from organic that would be right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on PSol what percentage of revenue in 2012 was breach-related? I don't think I have it on the top of my head.
Do you guys have that? There were a few breaches -- maybe just back up as we think about it Bill.
Historically we've had a down drag on breach.
It was high a number of years ago.
Basically there was amendments for a number of years.
2012 we did have a bit of an uptick with 2 main breaches so the breach...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So we're looking at like less than 10%? Yes way less than that amount.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right no problem.
Then I wanted to ask a favor from Lee if you don't mind walking me through again within online CIS the pricing volume mix equation there.
We talked about the volume being down 9% I just want to make sure I followed that.
Yes.
Average revenue -- we break it into revenue per transaction and then volume and it can be a little misleading because we have some non transaction price revenue that affects revenue per transaction the way we do this simple calculation.
But what happened in the fourth quarter is we shift our transaction mix shift it towards higher-priced segments.
Mortgage has a tendency to accentuate that as mortgage tends to be in higher-priced segments and away from some high-volume but lower unit price accounts.
And then second we did have increased revenue from subscription-billed products that we're having success with and that affects our simple calculation of revenue per transaction.
And then transaction volume was down 9% due to that shift in -- away from high-volume but lower price accounts.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just the revenue per transaction was up how much? 17%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 17% got you.
And would you throw in something there for mix or is that just built into that? That reflects the shift in mix to higher-priced segments.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the high-volume unit price accounts what business line was that where you're seeing that shift? They were -- I mean that's in OCIS online and that's in financial services customers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean what -- is it credit card or some other vertical? Bill it's broad-based.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then the final question I just wanted to ask you your thoughts around post the CSC acquisition.
Your thoughts on your timing for going and doing M&amp;A again share repurchases the general capital allocation question? The M&amp;A will be dictated by strategy and what's available.
We continue to be in the market looking for good tuck-in acquisitions around the world.
I think initially what you're going to see is use the cash flow to pay down debt.
We've talked about a range of 1.75 to 2.0-ish.
We're at the upper end of that and we'd like to get that down so it doesn't mean we won't do acquisitions but initially I think of it as paying down debt to get us back in a comfortable range.
Lee do you want to add there? No I think that's accurate.
And our last question will come from Dan Leben with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> First you mentioned some regulatory uncertainty by clients around IXI could you just expand on that a little bit and talk about what the issue was and then how it's being addressed? Yes.
There are attributes that we use when we build various models across the business including IXI.
There were a few of our customers that were concerned about the use of some -- I'm not going to go into exactly what those are but they were concerned about using those attributes in the future and would the government frown upon those and seeing those as maybe being discriminatory or misleading attributes.
So we have to do -- by the way there was no mandate from any one regulatory body that said you can't use these attributes which is uncertain.
And that uncertainty caused our customers to take pause and what we've been spending our time doing is one educating ourselves educating our customers but most importantly building models that did not use those attributes.
And we've done so and those models proved to be largely as predictable as the old model.
So we're taking those models now back to our customers.
Research Division</strong> Fantastic.
And then just on the Settlement Services disposition great example of a win for NPI.
Could you just talk about what changed behind that business and why you don't view it as strategic versus a couple of years ago and then just secondarily any commentary around the multiples you received on the 2 dispositions would be great.
Yes.
The ESS was a great new product as you've mentioned.
I think it must have been 6 or 7 years ago when we built that product.
And it was a way to add more value to our current customer base.
We had and hoped to get a different balance.
If you look at the product offerings within the ESS you get appraisal and you have title close and we had built a long-term model with a different balance of mix between those 2 offerings title close versus appraisal we could never quite get the level we wanted on title close as a result of margin.
It was not at the level we felt long-term made sense.
There's better uses of our capital than that.
So we sold it.
And it's sort of multiple [indiscernible] tiny business.
So it's -- I'm not going to disclose the multiple itself but take it as very small.
Okay.
With that operator we'll conclude the call.
Thanks to everybody for your participation and have a good day.
Thank you.
Once again that will conclude our call for today.
Thank you all for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Quarter 1 2013 Equifax Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations.
And with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our businesses are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2012 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will also refer to our non-GAAP financial measure adjusted diluted EPS attributable to Equifax.
Adjusted diluted EPS attributable to Equifax excludes acquisition-related amortization expense.
This measure is detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation table which is included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Also please refer to our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab on our website for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us again this morning.
Our performance for the first quarter 2013 was in my opinion strong and was broad-based as 4 of our 5 operating segments delivered strong double-digit growth for the quarter.
This performance -- a lot of the performance was primarily driven by the continued broadening [ph] focus of each of our business units as one of our most important strategic initiatives.
They're all continuing to execute well and have energized their organizations to innovate and identify new and expanded opportunities for growth.
Take a quick look at the high level of the quarter.
Revenue was $567 million up 12% from the first quarter of a year ago.
Margin was 26.3% up from 25.4% last year.
And EPS was $0.87 up 26% from $0.69 a year ago.
So to put things into context those results compared favorably to the annual outlook we provided in December then again in January of 10% to 12% revenue growth and operating margins in the range of 26% to 27%.
We also guided in February adjusted EPS growth of 21% to 24%.
So a solid financial quarter and broad-based.
In addition to the financial performances the business continues to improve their market position by delivering high levels of innovation analytics and customer service.
As I always do I'll kind of go through some highlights for each of the business units and I'll also give you a sense for each business unit what the outlook looks like for the second quarter of 2013.
The focus for USCIS for the quarter obviously was integrating our new central region which was the acquisition of CSC and preparing that organization to deliver accelerated core non-mortgage growth in 2013 and beyond.
We've organized the CSC acquisition into what we now call again our Central Region.
A number of activities are underway to train the sales force integrate them into joint account planning and rightsize the organization to eliminate unnecessary redundancies.
Rudy and his team are off to a very good start.
During the first -- during the quarter USCIS also launched the first phase of our analytical sandbox approach for our second top core bank.
We've talked about this concept of sandbox a few times in the past.
And while it's now gone live a lot of great excitement there.
There's a lot to be done in the weeks and months ahead but this is a clear example of how we are leading and innovating for our customers.
The database will be extraordinary broad-based including our data our clients' data scores attributes and potentially third-party data where needed.
With our modeling and analytical platform this customer can brainstorm test validate and produce models to significantly improve their decision-making with consumers and small businesses.
With our unique Decision 360 data assets intimate knowledge of the banks' modeling challenges a dedicated relationship team and understanding of the clients' complex data consumption requirements we are uniquely qualified for this type of opportunity.
It's really exciting to see us take our relationship with these big banks to a whole new level strategically.
Finally we continue to make good progress on the verticalization of our sales organization in USCIS.
Growth is beginning to accelerate in some of our focus areas.
For example we created late last year a vertical around the automotive segment in the U.S.
And in the first quarter the automotive vertical exceeded 10% growth while the market grew at approximately 6%.
While organic growth was below our long-term target in the first quarter it was largely in line with what we had expected for USCIS.
The slower growth is really due to a particularly strong performance in 2012.
A relatively slow January in the U.S.
can explain why.
It was weather it was sequestration uncertainty regulatorily.
But market overall we felt was slow in January.
The good thing is it picked up nicely in February.
That pickup continued in March.
The trend continues into April.
As we look at USCIS we look forward into the second quarter we see USCIS clearly coming in line in our long-term growth projections we gave you which is back in the range of 5% to 7% organic growth.
And total growth when you include the acquisition of CSC stepping up to 18% to 20%.
So a good solid second quarter outlook for USCIS.
And we'll answer any questions you may have regarding that during the Q&amp;A.
While at International they continue to make good progress on their strategic initiatives.
Here's some specific highlights.
They continued to increase the penetration on our targeted verticals like insurance in the U.K.
telco in Canada and the financial institutions in Latin America.
They continued to accelerated our growth of unique products such as fraud in Spain and Canada and eID in Latin America.
Expanding the geographical footprint of our unique decision tools such as InterConnect is now a program across Europe and in Latin America.
We're delivering strong double-digit growth in our analytic services offerings throughout Europe Latin America and Canada.
They continue to grow U.K.'s Personal Solutions business at strong double-digit rates.
That's been a transformed business for us in the U.K.
Russia.
Russia continues to deliver strong operating margins and double-digit revenue growth.
And during the quarter we increased our ownership of a Russian enterprise from 43% to 50%.
Finally India is progressing well.
We continue to add new customers and add new data contributors launch new products and improve our hit rates.
Growth for International is expected to be in the upper single-digit range for the second quarter as these strategic initiatives continue to build momentum.
Important to say also as I think about International it was -- and the performance in the first quarter very much in line with our expectations and the guidance we gave you in December for International as well as reaffirming that guidance for International in February of this year.
So second quarter is expected to be very strong for International as well.
Onto Workforce Solutions.
Workforce Solutions delivered another outstanding performance in the quarter and also positioned itself for some attractive growth in the coming years.
Our total records in the database now exceeds 224 million.
Dann and his team have done a really good job of continuing to find new and creative ways to add new records for that database which as you know enabled us to solve more problems for verifiers [indiscernible] accelerated growth rates.
At the Investor Day last December we told you that the government sector was going to be a big focus for Equifax.
And the recent announcement by SEITIS [ph] with Medicaid -- Medicare and Medicaid services.
The CMS is a great example of a big win for us in this space.
This project is uniquely tied to the Affordable Care Act which mandates that all states set up a web exchange so consumers can quickly qualify add for and enroll in healthcare benefits based on a variety of factors including income.
Our solution will reduce the need for manual verification in many cases benefiting both the consumer and the state governments.
By the way this is a great example of taking our fraud and ID Services business and which used to reside in the USCIS business.
We had relationships in the CMS and bringing EWS in.
Those teams partnered great together to win this very very unique contract for us.
As you may have seen the contract is for 5 years and it is estimated by CMS to be worth up to the $329 million over the life of the contract.
And just for clarification this is the instant verification product so it's a Work Number product that we're selling to CMS.
This year is all about building out the capabilities to prepare ourselves and prepare CMS to go live the intent is to go live in the fourth quarter of this year.
We expect there will be some revenue obviously this year but it will be relatively small in 2013 building in 2014 and beyond.
So as we get towards the end of this year we'll have much greater insight into revenue outlook for 2014.
But it's an exciting win for us.
First because we're selected over -- because of our unique employment in income data assets and technology capabilities.
And secondly it establishes us at a very important and valued contract with the U.S.
government on a very significant initiative.
It opens doors to the government that we've never had opened before.
In addition obviously there are some enormous benefits for the consumer and streamline the qualification process.
And finally although there's development effort necessary to meet CMS's requirement we anticipate fulfilling these transactions beginning again in the fourth quarter of this year.
And not a significant CapEx expenditure.
It'll all be ready.
Continuing with Workforce Solutions they continue to make good progress penetrating some of our more traditional end markets which we've talked about for a number of years now.
For example revenues in the auto and card sectors grew by over 50% in the quarter.
And both segments continue to have long-term growth potential for EWS.
Finally we've had some early wins with our new Central Region.
It used to be known as CSC.
And Workforce Solutions selling products into many of the larger financial institutions and customers and we continue to make good progress penetrating our KCP accounts with EWS products.
I'm sure you saw from our press release the operating margins expanded by over 600 basis points for EWS for the quarter in addition to the benefit of recording [indiscernible] revenue.
Every business segment in Workforce Solutions expanded their operating margins in the quarter as they continued to benefit from investments and technology and improved operating efficiency.
We can talk as much as you want to about [indiscernible] later on.
Great performance across-the-board for Workforce Solutions.
We expect Workforce Solutions to continue to deliver high single-digit revenue growth in the second quarter.
On the PSol they delivered their ninth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth with strong operating margin in the quarter.
They signed 4 breach deals.
They're delivering strong double-digit growth in Subscription revenues primarily improving overall revenue per subscriber.
They also continue to penetrate the Canadian market while providing technical and marketing support to enhance growth of our U.K.
Personal Solutions product offering.
Revenue growth for PSol in the second quarter is expected to continue in the low double-digit range.
Now after a difficult 2012 North American Commercial Solutions is making good progress with its customers and accelerating its growth to 10% for the first quarter.
Further penetration of non-FI and telco verticals share of wallet growth of existing customers and strong execution on NPI are contributing to the accelerated growth we saw in the first quarter.
We expect revenue growth in the high single digit-range as these trends continue into the second quarter.
And I'm confident that Commercial is back on the range of good growth going forward.
Now in conclusion I feel good about where we're positioned.
As many of you know we have set high expectations for our management team and they have consistently delivered.
Every business segment is healthy with an attractive set of short-term and long-term growth opportunities in front of them.
I'll turn it over to Lee now for the details.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll be referring to the financial results generally presented on a GAAP basis.
You should also refer to the Q&amp;A and non-GAAP reconciliation attached to our earning release for additional financial information.
With mortgage market activity generally holding in the first quarter at the elevated levels of last year's second half as we expected and with good operating execution on our growth initiatives this quarter's performance was solid and at the upper end of the guidance range we gave last quarter.
During the quarter we completed the divestitures of 2 smaller nonstrategic businesses Equifax Settlement Services and Talent Management as we previously announced.
These are being treated as discontinued operations for accounting purposes so the operating comparisons I will be sharing exclude these units from prior periods.
Now let me return to the quarterly results.
Compared to the same quarter in 2012 for the first quarter of 2013 consolidated revenue of $567 million was up 12% on a reported basis and also up 12% on a constant currency basis.
Operating margin was 26.3% up 90 basis points from last year largely due to operating margin expansion in Workforce Solutions Personal Solutions and Commercial Solutions.
Diluted earnings per share attributable to Equifax was $0.67 up 15% for the same quarter last year.
Excluding acquisition-related amortization adjusted EPS was $0.87 up $0.18 or 26% when compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Moving to the individual business units.
U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $245 million up 17%.
Excluding the acquisition of the CSC Credit Services business organic growth in USCIS was 3%.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $176 million up 14%.
Most of the growth resulted from the CSC acquisition.
Excluding the CSC acquisition revenue grew slightly.
Transaction volume was down 10% driven by lower activity levels in telco and select lower-priced financial institutions offset by an increase in average revenue per unit due to improved customer mix and some pricing initiatives.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $30 million was up 33% compared to the first quarter a year ago driven largely by the acquisition of CSC Credit Services.
Organic growth was approximately 12%.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $40 million up 17%.
Organic growth was approximately 4%.
The operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 37.5% compared to 38.7% in the first quarter of 2012.
USCIS operating margin decreased in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to 2012 due particularly to increased depreciation and amortization expense which negatively impacted margin to 240 basis points.
Increased depreciation and amortization expense was primarily a result of the additional $9 million of acquisition-related amortization expense related to CSC Credit Services acquisition.
In addition transition expenses resulting from the CSC acquisition negatively impacted the operating margin by over 100 basis points in the quarter.
We anticipate operating margins to move up in Q2 consistent with the long-term range we guided to during Investor Day in December.
Our International business unit's revenue was $124 million up 2% on a reported basis and up 4% on a constant dollar basis.
By region Latin America's revenue was $47 million flat in U.S.
dollars and up 4% in local currency.
Double-digit growth in analytical services and marketing services offset weakness in Chile driven by the regulatory change that took effect in the first quarter of 2012.
For the remainder of the year we expect growth in Latin America to improve.
Europe's revenue was $45 million up 3% in U.S.
dollars and up 4% in local currency.
Good growth in government and insurance sectors combined with strong double-digit growth in Personal Solutions offset weakness in our commercial information and marketing services offerings given the economic conditions.
Canada Consumer Information revenue was $33 million in the quarter up 4% in U.S.
dollars and 5% in local currency.
Strength in analytical services particularly in fraud services and marketing services helped to offset mortgage weakness in Consumer Information Solutions.
International's operating margin was 28.1% compared to 31.8% in 2012.
Last year's first quarter margin was by far the highest of the year so this is a difficult comparative base.
Margins in the year's first quarter and for the rest of the year are likely to be more similar to margins from last year's second through fourth quarter's high 20% range.
Workforce Solutions revenue was $124 million for the quarter up 14%.
Verification Services with revenue of $69 million was up 21% for the quarter driven by strong double-digit growth across all market segments including mortgage auto government and [indiscernible].
Total records on file ended the quarter at 224 million up 7% over the year ago period.
Employer Services revenue was $55 million up 6% compared to last year.
As to catch up on the work opportunity tax credit employment credit services followed it's reauthorization by Congress in January and offset weakness in other tax management services.
The Workforce Solutions operating margin was 30.3% compared to 24.1% in the first quarter of 2012.
With the renewal of the work opportunity tax credit program we were able to record revenue for work that was performed in 2012.
The resulting benefit to the operating margin in the quarter was approximately 160 basis points.
Additionally each line of business in Workforce Solutions improved their operating margins when compared to the first quarter of 2012 driven by strong revenue growth.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $51 million up 14% from a year ago.
Strong growth in subscription revenue breach projects and additional penetration in Canada were the key drivers of this performance.
Operating margin was 28.4% compared to 25.1% in the first quarter of 2012 driven by lower credit file and monitoring expenses resulting from the CSC acquisition.
North America Commercial Solutions revenue was $23 million up 10% on a reported and local-currency basis.
Strong growth in our U.S.
risk and marketing segments was partially offset by slowness in Canada.
Operating margin was 21.3% up from 16.8% a year ago quarter as all business units delivered year-over-year improvement in their operating margins.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Great.
Thanks Lee.
For the second quarter assuming current exchange rates and the continuation of the mortgage activity we've experienced in the past 3 months our outlook for revenue growth from continuing operations is between 12% and 14% adjusted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be between $0.88 and $0.91 per share for the quarter.
That's up 23% to 27% for the second quarter.
Our second quarter guidance for revenue and adjusted EPS continues to reflect the strong first half performance which was incorporated to our full year guidance.
Giving the anticipated moderation in mortgage activity for the second half of 2013 we continue to be very comfortable with our full year guidance of 10% to 12% revenue and 21% to 24% for adjusted EPS growth.
We're going to have a much better look guys as we release our second quarter results in July as to what exactly mortgage might be doing in the second half so obviously we'll give you those views when we're together in July.
Any way you look at it the results we have in the first quarter combined with the outlook we expect for the second quarter positions Equifax for yet another record year.
So with that operator I'd like to open up to any questions the audience might have.
[Operator Instructions] We will go first to Molly Garrett (sic) [McGarrett] with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about the trajectory for OCIS for the year.
Growth flattened in the first quarter.
Where do you see re-acceleration and what will be driving that? Molly I gave some insight there.
If you take a look at the entire USCIS it's lower in the first quarter than anticipated really driven by July -- by January's results.
And I gave guidance for the entire business unit to be in the 5% to 7% range.
To get there obviously OCIS has got to kind of carry their weight.
So I expect improvement in the second quarter going -- that improvement continues throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on mortgage do you still have the same expectations as far as the market decline that you had at Investor Day? Or have your expectations changed at all? No as I'd tell you -- alluded to at the end of my comments there we're seeing continued albeit slower growth than 2012 saw over 2011.
The mortgage market is performing as we expected during guidance in December and reforming in February.
For the first quarter we expect that to continue in the second quarter.
And when we're together in July we'll have a much better view of the expectations for the third and fourth quarter.
Right now it's behaving as we anticipated.
We will take our next question from Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Can you maybe just help break out the contribution from CSC in terms of revenue and incremental EBITDA like you -- just to try and compare the run rate to the full year incremental guidance you had given at the time of the acquisition? I won't give you the specific numbers but CSC is performing almost identically to the guidance we gave earlier this year financially strategically tactically.
So all the guidance we gave you on EBITDA margin impact and revenue impact is largely in line.
There's nominal adjustments to the guidance we gave you before.
Lee would you add to that? Yes revenues for CSC are running ballpark about $30 million a quarter and we expect that to hold through the year.
We really can't directly measure EBITDA because we're consolidating it.
It's hard to track the expense side.
But consistent with Rick's comments we're hitting our budgeted numbers which were based on the case that we presented to you in December.
So we're right on track with our incremental profit and EPS objectives.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Rick you mentioned obviously that we should continue to see improvement for the rest of the year in OCIS.
Can you maybe elaborate just a little bit more on this mix shift of the declining I guess as you refer to the lower-paying customers and move into the higher end? Can you just maybe give us a little more color on what the dynamics there are and what's going on internally? Specifically looking at what drove the performance in the first quarter and why I'm confident in the second quarter? Research Division</strong> Well just on the OCIS side you talked about the mix shift between the declines on the lower-end paying customers.
But then you're I guess targeting the higher-paying.
So I just want to know if you could provide a little more color on what that means.
Great great question Manav.
Traditionally as you know when you look at a portfolio of assets assets could be traditionally like the customers that you have like the products you have.
We continue to look for ways to optimize that mix of portfolio you have and OCIS is no different.
We had some clients that were higher-volume but extremely low-priced and that correlates to low profitability.
And we continually look at those and say what makes sense short term and long term and modify that portfolio accordingly.
So what we did in OCIS to be very specific is we have non-renewed at our request a number of clients but offset that with some very high-margin lower-volume.
So the mix was a good step forward from a profitability perspective for us.
So don't think of that as being something that is a sea change mover continuation that you'll see significantly going forward.
But every so often we sit back and take that look and kind of prune the portfolio the portfolio we want long term.
That's what happened here.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just lastly on this can you give us an example of the 2 different types of clients like the high volume and the low volume but higher priced one? Examples meaning verticals or examples...
Research Division</strong> Yes correct.
Yes I won't give you the client's name but largely in the FI space.
We will take our next question from Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rick can you talk a little bit about or elaborate a little on the CSC cross-sell efforts and where you see the greatest potential? Are we talking about selling some of your NPI solutions into that central region? And also could you talk about the trajectory of the benefits you foresee from those cross-sell efforts as we go through the year here? Yes.
One as I said before just a little higher level math the overall integration of the acquisition of CSC is right on target.
It's going great.
No negative surprises a few positive surprises.
So I'm really pleased at this juncture.
As it relates to cross-sell and revenue synergies if you go back to the time we announced this in December what I said there holds true today.
And that is think about it this way.
It's not necessarily there'll be new sources of revenue but that time to revenue should be faster because we're not dealing with a third-party partner.
It is our business.
So what you're seeing now is our ability to bring products from NPI from across of suite of assets we already have into those customers in the middle part of the country.
We're doing it with faster traction we could in the past.
So that's the way I think about it.
As far as trajectory we're still early into it 4 months into the integration.
The effort right now has been on getting the culture together the people together the process together and we have had some nice cross-sell wins at some financial institutions in CSC's territory.
But it's too early to declare what that number is going to be long term.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when I look at this quarter and we saw non-mortgage organic revenue sort of below your long-term targets and it sounds like January was the culprit.
If you look at the full year even considering the slow start do you still feel good about 6% to 8% core non-mortgage revenue growth? And then how much of that is going to be driven by NPI? The answer to the first part of the question is absolutely.
We expect to be back at the 6% to 8% range in the second quarter and for the full year.
In NPI I'm not sure we've broken that out specifically but the NPI in total should continue to perform at the same levels -- within the range we have historically which is 10% by value and mix.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last one if I may.
Just from a macro standpoint FICO made some comments last night generally about a little bit of a lift in the credit card environment.
Could you comment -- CMS I guess Lee said was what -- up 4% organic.
Are you seeing any movement in terms of the issuer's willingness to either ramp up marketing or come down the credit continuum at all? Yes prescreen was up in the first quarter.
So when you look at CMS and I think the number we gave you was 4% that's a combination of traditional CMS plus the wealth management business the IXI business as we call it.
But the prescreen business was up -- I can't remember exactly what the number was.
Jeff maybe you do -- mid-double-digit for the first quarter so we too are seeing prescreen lift in the first quarter.
We will take our next question from Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I didn't hear the core non-mortgage statistic from you guys.
I know everyone's kind of alluding to it.
But can you give us that number specifically so we're all on the same page? For total company it was about 5%.
LLC Research Division</strong> It was 5% okay.
So that's what we have.
And then Lee you talked about transition expenses being about 100 basis points of headwind on the USCIS margin.
Is it -- are you trying to say that in the second quarter you'd expect that to be negligible and that's how we should step it up so 100 basis point sequentially? Or should we be thinking about this as you start to grow margins again on a year-over-year basis? I would say actually a combination of 2 things.
One yes it should be -- transition expenses largely though not completely behind us.
The second is because we are expecting stronger revenue growth in the second quarter we'll also get some margin leverage from both.
Dan one thing Lee I think said earlier was you should expect USCIS's margins to move into the range we guided to back in December and again in February.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then at the time of the CSC deal you had talked about reinvesting I don't know maybe $0.10 or so of the potential accretion.
I'm wondering how much have we seen kind of reinvestments so far? And then how much should we expect throughout the year? Just given how this quarter played out a little bit lower was there a little bit less investment and we should expect that to be heavier in the back half given that's where the acceleration is expected to occur? Yes to a modest degree.
We are ramping some of those programs.
You'll see some of that in the corporate line so you'll see a bit more corporate line expense growth as we get later into the year.
Some of that will go into the business units.
But we were spending in the first quarter but it will ramp up somewhat from here.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
Can you just give us an update on what if anything is kind of transpiring around just the CFPB? And I know last quarter you talked about some clients being a little standoffish given how one of the products was structured.
It's sound like you probably rectified that but any update would be very helpful.
Yes we continue to work very closely with CFPB and we're going to -- the focus I think as much in the last time was around getting a compliance governance structure in place and we're making good progress on that when we come back sometime in the late second quarter early third quarter to review that with us.
So specific to the CFPB on a product position we talked about IXI and so the attributes there being potentially a concern of CFPB maybe [ph] discriminatory in some cases.
We'll make a great progress there building new models with different attributes.
When the customers are satisfied we're convinced CFPB will be satisfied with this one.
We will take our next question from Carter Malloy with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the Workforce side of the business I think there's a couple of million of margin benefit.
But even excluding that there's a pretty significant gain there.
Should we think about that as permanent process improvements and margin that's going to stick? Or should we model that margin back down going forward? No Carter.
One it was an outstanding performance you're right and [indiscernible] was a help.
It was a drag last year as you know because we had all the expense and no revenue for EWS.
In the first quarter you get the revenue with virtually no expense.
But as you model EWS going forward you should think of EWS being in the 30% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going into next year will the CMS contract structure change that at all? Yes obviously we'll know more as I mentioned earlier on at the end of this year.
If it materializes at the level that the CMS disclosed which we don't know if it will yet it's work [ph] number it's instant so it's a very high-margin business.
So let's hold that thought until we get closer to the year we'll give you look at it then.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going back to the question on CFMS if you teased out IXI which sounds like it's down again.
I guess one is how much longer do we have to suffer through the comps on that one with that business being down? But two more importantly on the prescreen side of the business being up mid-double digits Lee can you tell us -- that was negative last quarter or that was maybe slightly positive is that correct? It seems like a pretty big turn and for you guys isn't that a pretty good leading indicator going into 2Q and beyond? Well first IXI was down marginally.
And it's kind of flattened out now year-over-year so I don't expect that to be a factor as it was last year.
In fact we obviously are expecting that to return to growth.
The last quarter CFMS comparison I don't recall.
I thought we were up in last year's fourth quarter over the prior year.
Prescreen up more than the rest of CFMS.
But I think that had turned.
Research Division</strong> Is there a fairly material acceleration in this quarter though.
Is that fair to say? What's that Jeff? It turned up -- prescreen turned up in the fourth quarter okay? Research Division</strong> And historically how good of a predictor has that been at least for the FI component of overall OCIS? Yes.
Carter it used to be very good indicator pre-recession and then we've got a 45- to 60-day lag.
We saw as we exited the recession that there was less of a correlation between prescreen uptick and on the core credit report uptick in USCIS.
So we'll keep a close eye on that over the next couple of months to see if in fact there is a higher correlation returns to normal.
That would be very encouraging if it does.
We will go next to the Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Rick two questions about -- one about sandbox.
Any way to talk about or even size what the potential revenues would come out of some of these relationships? Is that possible? And second is the CMS contract a one-off or is there a pipeline of discussions you're having? Is there any way you could talk about the size of that potentially? Two great questions there.
One on the sandbox I think I alluded to this in the last earnings call.
There is -- whenever you stand at the sandbox there's a revenue you get to load the data to provide the services to host the data less than millions of dollars range.
But more than that it is -- I've have always said from day one any time you can add this kind of strategic value to customers and get in there with smart people look at data look at attributes look at scores and try to build new products the real revenue comes downstream when we get to build new products secondly.
The third revenue stream is that some of clients are looking at this as a potential challenges.
Do I want to outsource pieces of if not all of my analytics to someone like Equifax? And the sandbox is a great venue to prove that concept.
So I think of the revenue stream really coming downstream here with new products and potentially outsourcing and that's exciting to us.
As for CMS yes any time you get into a government entity like CMS and win a contract like this this continues to validate and provide solutions to them it will open other doors.
For example there's a potential that the government might look at pulling an employment record 1 year after the fact -- I'm sorry VOI after the fact.
In short if they have given you a discount for the Affordable Care Act a year later how does your income look? So there are a lot of opportunities potentially for us to think of different revenue streams with CMS.
We'll take our next question from Julio Quinteros with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about the offsets to volume it sounded like you said that there was obviously some increase in revenue per transaction and some other price levers to offset some lower volume overall at least in the first quarter.
If you kind of think about some of the offsets that you could see if there were any volatility in volume from here forward on the OCIS section do you still have those levers as you kind of go forward or are those kind of one-time items for the first quarter? Will there be other levers that you could continue to pull to offset any weakness in volume as we move forward from here? Well one I would expect weakness in volume.
The forecast I gave you obviously contemplated certain volume level.
Two if you go back to -- I can't remember which -- who asked the question but we intentionally lowered the volume with some accounts because the profitability didn't meet our thresholds so that was very very intentional.
I don't expect that to be a continuation of new cleansing of accounts second third and fourth quarter of this year.
Did I answer your question Julio? Research Division</strong> Yes that helps.
I guess I'm just thinking more on a macro basis.
Then if things were to get worse into the back half of the year would there be other levers? I mean it sounds like mix shift will be part of that.
But you're comfortable at least relative to the second quarter guidance right now that there would be some volume improvements from here? Yes I do.
And again we have a lot of levers.
And I don't know what to expect.
I wouldn't give you the guidance for the second quarter and for full year that counted so [ph] and our ability to deliver those results.
As you go with softness in OCIS or elsewhere we have a lot of tools we could pull including the right deployment of Lean looking at costs so on and so forth.
But we're very clear.
I'm bullish on our revenue outlook for the second quarter and for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Can we may be take that thought to more of a -- I'm thinking more of a 2014 look at this point I guess in some ways.
What could derail the momentum that you guys have in 2013 as we really begin to zero in  on the next year's growth trajectory just thinking about kind of a lower growth prospect in our model.
But it sounds like there's a lot of opportunities still ahead of you.
You have the CMS contract.
You have some other pieces that are kind of really ramping up here.
What would be the puts and takes to really kind of consider in terms of sort of a second half of '13 and then being able to sustain that momentum into 2014? Well it's the typical suspects.
Obviously what does mortgage do would be one.
We've given you our outlook on mortgage.
Two is the economic environment and we're anticipating that the economic environment in '14 will be much like '13 maybe slightly improvement.
So the good news is if we get some economic step-up around the world in 2014 that's wind at our back we've not seen since 2006.
So right now as I look at 2014 I look at our initiatives that we have here.
If the economic environment remains like it is today I think we're  in good shape.
If the economic environment improves it will get us a nice lift for us.
Next we'll go to Jeff Meuler with Baird.
Research Division</strong> On the analytical sandbox it sound like you brought another large FI in recently.
It's obviously a unique offering.
What is the selling process there and what does the pipeline look like? If we look out 18 or 24 months is this something where you have 20 different analytical sandboxes with different clients? Or should we more think that it'll be kind of limited to large FIs? A good question Jeff.
I think long term a lot of the pipeline is strong.
And the time to close it takes a few months.
It's a complicated sell.
Intellectually it is an easy sell but then there's some work required to actually get the sandbox environment set up and then loaded and then analytics starting to come out of it.
If you think about it for a second you take a step back one I'm hopeful we'll get a couple of more large clients.
But if you go to mid-market and you go down market oftentimes those FIs don't have the analytical resources that we have or the large banks have and so have even greater need to kind of partner with us.
So I don't think this is only a very large bank or FI play.
I think it's a play across the enterprise.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on EWS if I hear you right it sounds like you're expecting a little bit of revenue growth deceleration in Q2.
On the Verification Services side it sounds like good broad-based growth and the records growth remains strong.
Should we think about the Q2 expected deceleration just being the [indiscernible] impact in terms of not having that upside benefit from Q1 repeat or is there something else going on there? Yes one it's much in line with the contemplated growth forecast we had back in February.
Two [indiscernible] yes was a little higher than the first quarter it will be in the second quarter.
And third remember we talked about mortgage across the enterprise including USCIS and EWS starting to slow in the middle part of the second quarter and then continuing to slow in third and fourth quarter.
So it's a combination of both of those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one for me.
Should we think about there being a permanent step up I guess in terms of North America PSol margins following the CSC acquisition as you take out what otherwise was pass-through revenue? Yes again that will ebb and flow depending on the marketing investment we want to make to drive revenue growth.
We guided I think back in December Jeff in the high 20s.
I think you should continue to see think of PSol in that range but it will ebb and flow quarter to quarter.
We'll take our next question from Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rick can you just give us an idea of some of the upside potential from the CSC acquisition maybe some examples of things that CSC or you could not do individually in those geographies that you can do now? Yes again there's obviously some expense there and we talked about that when we were together in December and again on the earnings call in February and those are on track.
Two is kind of the revenue.
I mentioned that earlier expanding new products to those geographies faster.
Three is I think there's some opportunity for pricing and folding their organization into our pricing process which is segmentation on the same price elasticity bundling and so on and so forth.
Three we have been very sophisticated in our approach to thinking about resellers how you manage resellers to optimize profit growth and strategic value.
And we'll do that here with CSC.
CSC has used over the years a number of resellers across their geography.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to turn around in Commercial could you talk little bit more about what was weighing on it last year and just the contrast of what we're seeing kind of -- this starting to turn last quarter and now it looks like a real turn this quarter? Yes.
Shlomo I'll be very direct here.
As I've told my team this is executional -- lack of execution last year.
We weren't paying as much attention to the pipeline as we should have.
We are now.
We weren't innovating it quite the way now I wanted to.
We are now.
The team has done a remarkable job of getting their hands around this not feeling like they're a victim of the environment just because our competitors weren't growing and the market wasn't growing.
But they shouldn't just grow.
They've done a much for the job on those 2 fronts execution of the pipeline getting closer to the customers and better innovation.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on the Workforce Solutions margin excluding that Workforce tax credit.
It's a still pretty significant step up just on a sequential basis on the margins.
So I was just wondering what else happened over here that made the margins step up that dramatically? Was there a piece of technology that went in or something else that's different that you're expecting the margins to be like that permanently? Yes a couple of things that you should think of.
One it's a nice business model.
When you've got a high fixed cost business and you start growing incremental margin for sure at a very very high rate that’s number one.
Number two they continue to deploy Lean at a faster rate than they have before.
Three they have staffed up significantly in the last year on pricing in the broadest sense so that's segmentation bundling and so on and so forth understand price elasticity and value-added to the different clients.
So a combination of a great business model with more rapid deployment of Lean.
And third a more effective deployment of pricing strategies which we have benefited -- yes I can't tell if the last part of your question was a question or a statement.
But yes we are comfortable with the 30% range.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well it all came together this quarter because you guys are working on it and it all just came together this quarter? Yes.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go next to David Togut with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Rick could you shed some more light on the CMS contract? Specifically what's the level of visibility you have into the funding of that project? And then I guess what are the milestones we should look for around funding? Is this at all at risk given some of the budget cuts in Washington? We are told by CMS that -- they announced the $320-some-odd million was in fact fully budgeted.
Is that a risk could it be a risk? Governments  always have some things at risk.
Right now they're saying this is our funded amount the next 5 years you're awarded.
And we signed the contract.
So as far as milestones go right now -- I was just down at St.
Louis 2 days ago and the team is full bore out with CMS and internally building the capabilities to service them and go live October 1.
So the next milestone for us might be a check in July.
When we get on earnings call to talk about how much progress we've made building out the capabilities.
And there's some capability requirements required on their side as well.
It's a huge priority for them.
They're working full speed as well.
So the touch point would be July and how both sides are doing in technically preparing ourselves to go live in October.
And obviously the next touch point will be some time in the fourth quarter.
In fact during the third quarter earnings we should be in the midst of the CMS going live at that time.
We're going to give you an update and the third milestone and fourth milestone will be as we're together in February of 2014 wrapping up 2013 and we'll be 3 4 5 months into it.
We'll get insight into what 2014 looks like at that time.
Research Division</strong> And then Boa Vista could you give us some insight into the financial performance of that business and your updated thoughts on when you might increase your ownership in that JV? Yes since we don't consolidate nor control [indiscernible] nor should I divulge the financial performance.
That will be their call.
But as far as we're involved we had a board meeting I think it was yesterday and the day before with BV integration continues on pace.
It's approaching 18 19 months now.
I think it turns 2 years in July-ish.
So the teams are working hard to integrate the 2 companies build products make sure we're out in the marketplace and so on and so forth.
So we remain actively involved and we'll give you a better sense on the timing David of when there might be an opportunity to increase our stake in BV as we exit this year.
So third fourth quarter this year we should have a pretty good insight.
Research Division</strong> And then just a couple of quick housekeeping questions.
The $25.5 million after-tax purchase price amortization to get to adjusted EPS what would be the pretax impact of that? Lee? David I'm not...
We'll calculate it David.
David do you have another question while we're calculating that? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Other question was what was the share count at the end of the first quarter? 120 million was it? 123 million shares.
123 million shares David.
David do you have another question? David? Research Division</strong> Yes I mean perhaps just a question on capital allocation going forward for Lee kind of post the CSC buyout.
What would be your key capital allocation priority? I'll answer for Lee.
He's still trying to calculate the after-tax.
The capital allocation part remains consistent with our discussion in February and that is pay on our debt so we have some flexibility should we want to purchase some companies.
Number two continuing to invest in organic growth NPI for us.
Three is obviously dividend or share repurchase.
But right now which is no different than it has been the primary focus is going to be really paying down that debt as we did in the first quarter.
I think we paid down $107 million $108 million in the first quarter.
So continue that process give us some leverage on the -- some flexibility on the leverage.
David on the -- if I go back to the acquisition amortization addback the $25.5 million was up $11.6 million from a year ago.
And that is -- there was $9 million of CSC acquisition amortization which we just simply tax affected that as -- that's about $6 million.
And then the cash tax benefit is another $6 million.
It's about $12 million.
So basically that increase year-over-year is a function of CSC and those are the 2 components.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And then Lee could you remind me what the financing structure on the CSC buyout looks like in terms of floating versus fixed? And if there's a lot of floating will you take it out more with fixed term over time? There was not a lot of floating.
On the $1 billion we had about $200 million in cash.
We borrowed a little under $300 million in commercial paper and we issued $500 million in 10-year 3.3% notes.
The $300 million of CP we will take out with cash flow but we will not -- other than that don't expect to make any significant changes in our fixed and floating mix.
Okay.
I want to thank everybody for joining us on the call today.
And with that operator we will close the call.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Q2 2013 Equifax Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge with Investor Relations and with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2012 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will also refer to a non-GAAP financial measure adjusted diluted EPS attributable to Equifax.
Adjusted diluted EPS attributable to Equifax excludes acquisition-related amortization expense.
This measure is detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation table included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Also please refer to our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab on our website for further details.
Now let me turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
As I typically do I'll start off with a few comments financially for the quarter second quarter then we'll go through some highlights by BU.
We'll turn it over to Lee for some detailed financials and I'll come back and give you some color on the third quarter and fourth quarter the second half of the year outlook.
Second quarter if I look back was the strongest and the most balanced quarter we've experienced in my 8 years here.
We delivered double-digit revenue growth in each of the 4 U.S.-based businesses along with double-digit constant currency growth in International.
This performance was largely driven through our continued momentum across a broad range of strategic initiatives and high levels of execution a theme we have talked about now for the last couple of years.
We're also starting to see some modest signs of economic pickup.
Total revenue was $587 million up 14% from second quarter of last year.
Operating margin was 26.9% up from 25.1% a year ago.
Adjusted EPS was $0.92 a share up 28% from $0.72 last year for first half of 2013.
Total revenue was $1.2 billion up 13% and adjusted EPS was $1.79 up 27%.
Core organic non-mortgage growth rate accelerated from the 4.7% we reported in the first quarter to 7.5% in the second quarter and that acceleration is expected to further as we go into the second half -- further expand as we go into the second half of 2013 enabling us to significantly mitigate the anticipated slowdown in mortgage originations over the balance of the year.
And now quickly go in each of the BUs for some highlights which are pretty fabulous in my opinion.
First USCIS.
They're aggressively pursuing market expansion and product penetration through their unique product offerings.
A key client program which we talked about now for I think 4 years has enabled us to significantly strengthen share in these accounts and grow our business with the 4 largest banks driven largely by new product innovation and strategic growth initiatives.
That model of KCP where we dedicate all resources across the company to driving share gain and incremental new spend has been so successful.
We've now expanded the program to now include 2 large credit card institutions and 2 large telcos.
Through our creative use of analytics-driven insights we continued to deliver strong NPI performance in USCIS.
During the quarter we finalized the development and delivery of our analytical sandbox to one of our largest customers following their user acceptance testing.
That's something we talked about in the first quarter.
The pipeline for analytical sandbox projects now is robust as we further engage our large KCP accounts and develop new opportunities with many of our financial services customers.
I expect great things from the analytical sandbox over the coming year or so.
So next we will be launching trended data product in the USCIS business that will provide customers with a more granular understanding of consumer behavior through a richer more robust portfolio of information.
Through our Voice of Customer research demand for this product is strong and crosses many of our end user markets.
As a result as you might guess the pipeline for trended data is already very strong.
One year ago we launched an expanded focus on the automotive vertical in the U.S.
business.
These efforts which leverage multiple unique data assets of the company are now generating solid double-digit organic growth.
It's really the power of using our credit data combined with our VOE/VOI data.
And this is a market we are very bullish on and we see additional opportunities for continued growth.
Next in USCIS their level of innovation execution organic growth in USCIS core non-mortgage activities accelerated from the first quarter and we expect that growth to continue to accelerate just like the rest of the company as we move into the second half of the year.
As anticipated the total mortgage market originations are expected to decline approximately 35% to 40% in the second half of the year when compared to the second half of 2012.
In that environment we expect USCIS revenue growth to moderate a bit from the first half which was 17% to 20% and moderate down somewhere to the low to mid-teens in the second half of the year.
Next moving on to International.
As they have done now for many quarters they continued to strengthen its position in the marketplace through unique innovative solutions and share gain and continued to deliver some solid growth.
Our Latin American countries continued to deliver double-digit revenue growth.
Revenue in our Technology and Analytical Services offering was 13% for the quarter.
In 2 of the most troubled economies in which we operate our leaders in Spain and U.K continued to execute and innovate at very high levels allowing them to deliver double-digit growth rates which is remarkable in those environments.
In the U.K.
we've entered into an agreement with a top 10 consumer bank where we went from having 20% share to now becoming the primary provider for online credit information.
The unique set of product offerings and focus on customers has enabled Canada to grow at almost 4 times the rate of GDP.
Great level of execution and innovation there as well.
Finally by leveraging what Trey Loughran and the PSol team have done in the U.S.
outside of the U.S.
footprint we're taking those capabilities in our platform now to our International properties and PSol now is growing internationally at 35% for the quarter.
For the year we expect International's revenue growth to be in the upper half of their long-term target which was 7% to 10% growth.
The transformation of Workforce Solutions' business model to a broadening of the end markets it serves and maintaining their premier automated Verification Services offerings continues to drive strong broad-based growth and expanded operating margins as you've seen.
Dann and his team have focused not only on the mortgage market but growing their product offerings into new markets.
And for the quarter it delivered double-digit growth in places like card auto government and preemployment screening.
Just a great broad-based growth there.
During the quarter 2 large clients added 265 000 records to our database.
And through our alliance partnerships we've added over 100 new clients in the second quarter alone.
Total records on The Work Number database ended the quarter at 225.7 million up 6% over 1 year ago.
Neat thing there is the team is continuing to develop new uses of historical data to help our clients and drive new sources of revenue growth for us.
Finally I want to give you a quick update within Workforce Solutions on the recently announced contract win at CMS.
The work effort is on schedule and as we talked about in our last call we expect to be operational by October 1.
At this point we've only factored in a modest level of revenue for the year given all the uncertainty surrounding the implementation of Affordable Care Act.
And as I told you last quarter as we get into the third quarter earnings call in the fourth quarter we'll have a lot clearer insight as to what that means for us this year and next.
Workforce Solutions has improved organic growth in its core non-mortgage activities again by diversifying and -- into new and further penetrating existing market segments and by growing The Work Number database which is a powerful lever for growth.
For the full year we expect Workforce Solutions to deliver revenue growth in the upper end of their long-term target of 7% to 9%.
We saw it continuous to deliver strong double-digit revenue growth with attractive operating margins through excellent operational execution.
Shortly after the close of the quarter we made an important investment in PSol with the acquisition of TrustedID.
This acquisition broadens PSol's product offering and provides additional growth opportunities.
TrustedID is an affinity platform who's best in class.
They service substantial clients such as AARP mint.com H&amp;R Block and many others.
TrustedID is also an industry leader in assisting consumers with monitoring and managing their online reputation within social media sites including Facebook LinkedIn and Twitter and also enable consumers to control their offline identity through opt-out options with third-party mailing lists.
Simply put this was an opportunity we saw.
As we look at expanding our presence into the identity space TrustedID is fabulous there.
And secondly through the years we've been trying to expand our presence in affinity and TrustedID does that as well.
It's a nice fit strategically for Trey and his team.
We expect PSol to end the year with double-digit revenue growth possibly exceeding the upper end of their long-term range which was 8% to 12%.
On to North American Commercial Solutions.
They delivered another quarter of double-digit revenue growth and on a path to finish 2013 with growth at or above the upper end of their 6% to 10% long-term target.
An intense focus on executing their strategic initiatives building a strong pipeline of opportunities and new product innovation all of which are ahead of plan has enabled their strong turnaround performance.
And in summary we have turned the corner with Commercial and they're back on a path to solid growth.
Our performance for the first half of 2013 has been strong and has been balanced.
The team continues to deliver a very high level of execution across our initiatives including new product innovation and providing superior customer service.
So in summary I'd say the first half of the year was a great year for us.
With that Lee? Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll be referring to the financial results of continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
You should also refer to the Q&amp;A and non-GAAP reconciliations attached to our earnings release for additional financial information.
With our strong second quarter performance we are well positioned to tackle the expected mortgage headwind in the second half.
Let me first focus on the quarterly results.
Compared to the same quarter in 2012 for the first quarter of 2013 consolidated revenue of $587 million was up 14% on a reported basis and up 15% on a constant currency basis.
Operating margin was 26.9% up 180 basis points from last year driven primarily by operating margin expansion in Workforce Solutions Personal Solutions and Commercial Solutions.
Diluted earnings per share attributable to Equifax was $0.73 a share up 22% from the same quarter last year.
And excluding acquisition-related amortization and associated tax effects adjusted earnings per share was $0.92 up $0.20 or 28% when compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Moving to the individual business units.
U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $260 million up 19%.
Excluding the CSC acquisition which we now operate as our Central Region total organic growth in USCIS was 5%.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $185 million up 17%.
Excluding the Central Region revenue grew approximately 4%.
Transaction volume was down 2% but average revenue per unit increased due to pricing initiatives and favorable customer mix.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $33 million was up 38% compared to the second quarter 1 year ago driven by the acquisition of our Central Region and organic growth of approximately 17%.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $42 million up 17%.
Organic growth was approximately 5%.
The operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 40.2% which is flat when compared to the second quarter of 2012.
Our International business units revenue was $130 million up 9% on a reported basis and up 12% on a constant dollar basis.
By region Latin America's revenue was $49 million up 5% in U.S.
dollars and up 11% in local currency.
Strong double-digit local currency growth in Technology and Analytical Services and Marketing Services were the primary drivers of this improving growth.
Europe's revenue was $47 million up 14% in U.S.
dollars and up 16% in local currency.
Good growth in the telecommunications government and insurance sectors in addition to strong continuing double-digit growth in Personal Solutions more than offset weakness in Marketing Services' offerings.
Our Canada Consumer information revenue was $34 million up 7% in U.S.
dollars and up 9% in local currency.
Strength in technology and Fraud Services Marketing Services and data breach services were the primary contributors to growth in the quarter.
International's operating margin was 28.7% compared to 29.2% in 2012 due to increased investment in growth initiatives and infrastructure but up 60 basis points from 28.1% in the first quarter.
Workforce Solutions revenue was $123 million for the quarter up 12%.
Verification Services with revenue of $77 million was up 21% for the quarter driven by broad-based double-digit growth across all major market segments including mortgage auto government card and pre-employment.
Employer Services revenue was $47 million flat compared to last year.
Workforce Solutions operating margin was 31.1% compared to 24.2% in the second quarter of 2012 driven largely by widening margins in our Verification Services business unit.
Approximately half of the improvement is from operating performance and half from lower acquisition and amortization expense as a portion of the intangible assets from our 2007 acquisition of Workforce Solutions is now fully amortized.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $52 million up 12%.
Double-digit growth in our U.S.-based subscription revenue and in Canada were the key drivers for this performance.
Operating margin was 27.6% compared to 26.8% in Q2 of 2012 again benefiting from the lower credit file and monitoring expenses resulting from the CSC acquisition.
And finally North America Commercial Solutions revenue was $23 million up 12% on a reported and local currency basis driven largely by strong double-digit growth in our U.S.
risk business segment.
Operating margin was 16.8% up from 14% in the year ago quarter.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Thanks Lee.
If I look back to February we gave you a framework to think about for the total year.
In that framework we tried to define as best we could what we thought the mortgage market might do for the year.
As I sit here now in late July the overall mortgage market is expected to perform as we guided which is quite remarkable.
Little nuances.
The first half of the year was marginally stronger than our expectations.
And the second half of the year sitting here today we expect to be marginally weaker than we forecasted.
But in total for the full year the mortgage market is expected to perform kind of as we guided back in February.
In contrast the organic growth in our core non-mortgage activities accelerated in the second quarter as we mentioned before from 4.5% to -- or 4.7% to 7.5% and we expect that to accelerate further in the second half of the year to the upper end of our long-term target for organic growth rate which if you'll remember we talked about 6% to 8%.
So we expect third and fourth quarter to be at the upper end of that range which is very healthy.
As a result for the full year assuming current exchange rates and the anticipated decline in mortgage origination activity our outlook remains strong.
We now expect revenue growth from continuing operations to be in the middle of the 10% to 12% guidance range which we gave earlier this year.
That translates into approximately $2.3 billion.
Growth in adjusted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the top half of the 21% to 24% guidance range we provided earlier and that translates into $3.56 to $3.61 a share.
Operating margin is also expected to be comfortably in the range of 26% to 27% which we gave guidance earlier in [Audio Gap] As well.
So I think in summary I'll described the second quarter as a very strong first half which we're expecting a very strong 2013 and a very balanced 2013.
So operator with that we'd love to open up to some questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Carter Malloy at Stephens.
Research Division</strong> So first maybe on the core OCIS business.
You saw a little pickup there especially in non-mortgage.
So can you give us a sense of is that just industry volumes? Or is that more pricing initiatives on your end? Any detail there would help.
Well it's a combination.
But what's really encouraging I alluded to a bit in my comments Carter is we launched an internal strategic initiative if you'll recall 4G (For Growth) and the team came back with some ideas.
And automotive was a great area for growth.
We about 1 year ago deployed a lot of new resources there a lot of new thinking there brought in some outside consultants.
And now our business is growing 14% in the quarter which is just amazing.
And there are other examples much like that as well.
So it is much new initiatives expanding products and new verticals as it is pricing.
In fact I'd say it's more of that than it is pricing at this juncture.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also a pretty encouraging lift in your European business.
You gave us some in the prepared remarks.
But can you walk through again just what the key drivers are there? You mentioned PSol.
Is that a meaningful piece of that business? Yes the 35% PSol growth was all of International and that's inclusive of those 2 geography in Europe.
And...
Research Division</strong> Is PSol a meaningful percentage of those businesses though? In Spain no.
In U.K.
it's a good size.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But as I mentioned I think it was last quarter Carter or quarter before it starts with leadership.
And we have got 2 energized relatively new leaders in both U.K.
and Spain and they're looking at the business differently.
They're innovating at a very very high level bringing new products to market.
They're penetrating new verticals like insurance and government for example in U.K.
growing PSol dramatically in the U.K.
doing new verticals in Spain we've never done before.
And their execution across all initiatives is just extremely high.
And the neat thing is it's not just one quarter now.
It's been multiple quarters where they've executed.
And I think the future is bright there -- as you probably saw recently some encouraging news coming out of the U.K.
on their GDP.
So we've got a little economic help in those 2 countries.
I'd say even better for us.
And we'll go next to Jeff Meuler at Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just want to revisit the guidance commentary since it sounds like the mortgage for the full year was in line with your expectations but you're currently guiding towards the midpoint of the prior revenue range.
I guess was the non-mortgage core acceleration consistent with your expectations? Because at least to me it seemed like a bigger step up going from 4.7% to 7.5% than I would have expected.
And then on top of that you're layering on TrustedID.
I'm not sure how much revenue contribution there is there but it just seems like directionally your order of magnitude a bigger acceleration than we would have expected.
So I was just wondering if you could comment on that please.
I'd say that it's important Jeff that we put it into context.
We gave you a range 10% to 12% back 1 year ago and different sell-side analysts developed different models and expectations for us a company.
What we're saying now is the total mortgage market is going to behave largely as we expected.
The organic growth initiatives is largely as we expected just an acceleration.
There was some concern on the call the first quarter where our core non-mortgage growth rate was 4.5% -- 4.7% in the first quarter.
But we had planned on acceleration beyond that in the second quarter.
We're continuing in the third and the fourth.
So largely all of our initiatives in the mortgage market are performing as we expected.
As it relates to TrustedID the acquisition we just announced for PSol the revenue there is de minimis.
It's more of a strategic play to give Trey a foothold a great platform into the annuity market and a great platform managing our DMS.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you guys have been diversifying the business.
At this point the Verification Services business how much of that is mortgage? What we'll do is show the -- Between 40% -- it'll vary over time.
Overall mortgage about 18%.
Verification at this peak might be 40-some percent.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just finally any additional color you can give on the trended data product you referenced then but didn't give a lot of color? Yes it's a pretty neat thing.
As underwriters continue to try to find better ways to make underwriting decisions and target the right people today as you might guess they take a snapshot a static look at someone's credit file.
And if we can give them historical data 24 months or so of historical data and how consumers have behaved month by month so you see a trended look are they trending up are they trending down are they volatile are they steady that helps make them different product decisions and underwriting decisions.
So that's what we're talking about now.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And it took us time just to build the infrastructure to house the data.
We'll go next to David Togut at Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Historically pricing has been a very good driver of revenue growth for PSol as you've migrated consumers up to family plans and such.
Can you quantify the impact that pricing is having on revenue growth this year and what you see going forward? Are you talking specifically for PSol or in aggregate? Research Division</strong> Well I guess let's start with PSol and then maybe if you could give us a broader view Equifax overall.
Yes I'm not going to quantify the number either now but I'll give you a directional feel for it.
The stuff that Trey has done new product introduction expanding the value to his customers with things like family plan will continue to have a positive impact.
And I think that's an never-ending game by the way.
I think as we continue to innovate think about how you add more value to our customers they're willing to pay more.
And that same trend holds true for Equifax.
At the Equifax level the aggregate pricing benefit for Equifax there's going to be ebbs and flows year-over-year.
But if you look at a multiyear period of time David it's pretty consistent year in and year out.
One year you may have a little bit more and next year a little bit less but it is fairly consistent with multiple years.
Research Division</strong> So overall what are you seeing this year in terms of pricing power? We're -- it varies David.
In some countries where the marketplace may be different you may have a lot of pricing power.
Obviously in other countries you may not have as much places like the U.K.
where -- we're #2 player in the U.K.
It's also clearly linked to the vertical country the business and their level of innovation.
You've got a lot of pricing power if you continue to bring value to the customers new unique value.
Research Division</strong> Where do you have the most pricing power now either by vertical or by geography? Let's think about that.
I can't think of one that stands out as being dramatically different than another.
Again you might -- from time to time David some of them may come out with a really unique product in some part of the world and have a lot of pricing power there.
But eventually competition might catch up and someone else comes up with a great new product somewhere else in our business.
So it is truly balanced.
The stuff that Paul Springman and his team have built and you've heard me talk about this before they are top-notch experienced strategic pricing people and tactical pricing teams as well.
And they are penetrated in every single vertical country BU that we have around the world.
Research Division</strong> I see.
I apologize if you mentioned this earlier.
I joined a few minutes late.
But did you quantify the contribution to revenue growth in the quarter and for year-to-date from NPI? We did not.
But largely -- I don't have that stuff in my head either.
I'll tell you this though.
We just -- we had a review.
David it is largely in line with the goals we've had.
In fact I think we're slightly -- we are -- well we're slightly ahead of our budget through the first half of the year.
So NPI continues to be a meaningful contributor but we did not quantify it.
I don't have it off the top of my head.
Research Division</strong> And what is the biggest driver of NPI-related growth this year? It's pretty cool.
It's like we had the last couple of years David.
It's 60 to 70 products.
It's every BU.
It's every geography.
A couple of years ago we had a big hit I think called ESS which you know of.
Maybe 2 years ago I think it was.
And we had another big hit in NCTUE+ the telecom and utility positive data.
But by and large what you're finding now in our 8th year of doing this it's a lot of midsized small projects all around the world.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just finally Rick I realize that you don't control the Boa Vista JV but Experian has certainly highlighted the slowdown in their growth rate at Serasa in Brazil.
Can you just give us a qualitative sense of what you're seeing in the Boa Vista JV in Brazil? And is that seeing a meaningful slowdown in growth given some of the civil unrest over there? Yes I think the things that the world talks about when they look at Brazil would be reflective to Experian reflective of our business down there as well.
I'm heading down David once in August once again in October to see the team down there.
From our side as far as integration developing new products and getting products to market and getting market acceptance and so on and so forth.
All of that is working well.
But there's no doubt the Brazilian marketplace itself is slowing.
However I'm still keenly interested in Brazil because it's not just a 1-year bet or a 2-year bet.
It's a 5- 10- 15-year bet.
Research Division</strong> Any update on when you might increase your ownership stake in that JV? Not yet.
We'll go next to Dan Perlin at RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Rick can you just help us bridge the gap to this acceleration that you saw in this organic growth this quarter and then -- and accelerating into the back half? I mean it was pretty stark and I just want to make sure I've got the kind of key tenets.
There's a lot of things you're throwing at us but I suspect there's maybe 1 or 2 that you really want to highlight for us.
If you could just kind of outline that that'd be great.
Well look at it this way Dan.
I think it was -- first quarter was more of an aberration than anything else.
And as we -- as Lee and I built the plan for the year and we told you this not just you but our investor base that our long-term goal is to be in that 6% to 8% organic growth rate.
And we had a bit of aberration for a number of reasons in the first quarter.
Now you're seeing us deliver the kind of growth we expected in the second quarter.
And you've heard me use a theme down the path that we're executing at extremely high levels as high as I've seen.
And that's allowing us to creep up to the very high end of that 6% to 8%.
So it's no magic dust.
It's no one product.
It is sustainable repeatable core organic growth which is important to us.
And by the way we intensified our effort.
If you're us and you're sitting there in the fourth quarter last year looking at these low interest rates and knowing mortgage rates 10-year treasuries are going to pop up and mortgage rates are going to pop up in the second half of the year we're going to go from a little bit of tailwind in mortgage to a headwind we had to step up our game.
And oh I'm so proud of our team because all of our teams across the business have done just that and it's going to enable us to have a strong second half to the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you look across your portfolio in particular in the U.S.
are you seeing a shift modest or otherwise really from kind of the affluent category to the non-affluent starting to pick up? Yes I'm looking at Paul.
Paul says yes we are.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you just quantify it either anecdotally? Or just -- has it just started recently? We're starting to hear some indications at -- with other companies.
I'm just trying to channel-check with everybody on this.
What I think we are seeing is that the lenders the banks for cards for mortgage to some degree and for auto are going down a little bit in the credit scores.
I wouldn't call it quite sub-prime but closer to sub-prime now than they were in the past.
It's been probably [indiscernible] quarters now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I didn't -- sorry.
And the other thing there as they go down what we're finding they're also doing which we see as credit trends is they're offering smaller lines of credits.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in that -- typically when you go downstream you're seeing -- you would typically see the velocity of your credit apps go up because they have to put up more? Is that still consistent? Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I didn't hear why transactions in online were actually down 2%.
I heard you talk about pricing being up but I didn't think why they -- these were actually down.
Yes they were down 2%.
That's actually quite an improvement from the prior quarter.
We've commented in past quarters on a couple of clients where we have a smaller position.
We also saw in the second quarter a telco which can fluctuate quarter-to-quarter was down a little bit year-over-year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question and I'll jump off.
The employee services was flat.
I know the division was good.
Is there anything to call up there in particular? No I just think it's trends seen in unemployment claims.
But there's a very encouraging thing there Dan.
We have a new great leader in Scott Collins.
He's running the business for Dann Adams out there.
We just had a review with those guys.
And I have challenged them even in this kind of unemployment environment to step up their game and innovation.
I think there are some very positive things you can see coming out of the employer business within EWS this year and return to growth which will help Dan.
We'll go next to Manav Patnaik at Barclays.
This is actually Manav's associate Greg [ph] calling in for him.
On Commercial Solutions which we saw had a pretty strong quarter can you give an update on market trends and whatever company-specific attributes are helping to drive the growth? Yes it's -- Greg [ph] it's more than that.
It's just -- I admitted this to the -- our investor base back in fourth quarter maybe again first quarter.
We just had poor execution there.
And Alex and his team have refocused themselves on generating strong pipeline both in the MDS business and the marketing business in Canada.
We're improving our data quality in Canada tremendously.
We're revamping our entire go-to-market strategy in Canada.
And the U.S.
risk business has returned to growth.
So it's more of just doing what the rest of the business has been doing which is improving the level of execution.
Great.
And then we saw some small tuck-in acquisitions like TrustedID.
But can you give us a sense of what the larger deal M&amp;A pipeline looks like? CSC seemed kind of like a no-brainer but is there anything out -- any sizable deals that are on your radar? We always are looking for the -- strategic deals that make sense to us financially and strategically.
The pipeline is good.
It's tied to our strategy.
We're in the process is just wrapping up our 3-year strategy.
We maintain a goal of 1 2 points of growth coming from M&amp;A over multiple years and I think you can continue to count on that.
Again you're going to have some years that are bigger than that.
But in general terms think of us as a -- being 1 or 2 points of total growth coming out of M&amp;A.
We'll go next to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> [Indiscernible] questions.
Could you just talk -- and the most impressive part of the quarter to me is the fact that you guys are getting growth in areas like mortgage reporting where you clearly have the wind blow -- starting to blow in your face even in Verification Services as well where things are turning down.
Can you just give us a little bit more detail about what are you doing? Is there other products that you guys are coming to market with? Have you cut other deals we're you're getting a bigger piece of the pie? How are you executing so well over there? Yes that's a good question.
I think if you separate that and look at EWS one way and look at USCIS a little differently in EWS it is continue to gain greater penetration.
Believe it or not there were a number of mortgage underwriters historically who maybe didn't pool a VOE/VOI.
And now Dann and his team are out there knocking on the doors day in and day out.
So his ability to penetrate the mortgage market.
I don't have those numbers memorized right now as far as penetration but there's a lot of room to grow still.
But he's penetrating now so he's getting more pools for the VOE/VOI than he has ever had in the past.
He continues to look at his pricing for VOE/VOI which is another lift for him there because he is looking at new products as well.
In USCIS it's really new product introduction.
And you've heard us talk in the past the launch of a product called UDM as an example -- as one example of solving mortgage problems we haven't solved in the past.
And Rudy's also gaining more share in the tri-bureaus.
But you always heard us say Shlomo if you go back 2 3 4 years we used to always talk about the mortgage bankers index or what the growth rate was it was growing or declining and our expectations through new products and through penetration was to outperform.
So if it was up 5% we expect to be up something more than that.
If it was down 5% we want to be down less than that.
So the trend that you're seeing today is a trend we're really proud of and we've seen for a number of years now.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that you're at a point in time that you -- that the trend is going to have a meaningfully less impact on you given the -- what you're doing in some of those markets? In other words the expectation is it -- for it slow down a lot.
You have a lot of new products in the pipeline and a lot more market share to be gained that you think that you could continue to significantly outperform that mortgage bankers index? Well that's a good -- it's a great question.
I mean strategically the challenge I've given our team is we like to eliminate the cyclicality in mortgage.
We're not there yet.
We've got a long way to go.
But the vision the dream is to find ways to offset any cyclicality any downturn we might have.
But again we're not there yet.
And I'd like to do it within the confines of just the mortgage market.
So today we'll obviously having to rely upon core non-mortgage growth initiatives.
But the challenge I've given Craig Crabtree who runs our mortgage practice is to utilize all the great talent we around here and to think about ways to minimize the cyclicality we have in mortgage.
It's a long-term goal.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And one question for Lee.
You're continuing to delever after the CSC acquisition.
Where -- remind us of where your targets are at.
And I would think given the business model even the 1.9x leverage you probably still have a decent amount of capacity if another significant deal came by to be able to take that on.
Can you just comment on that? Yes our targets are to be between 1 3/4 and 2x EBITDA in terms of leverage.
I think at that range we do have some capacity in case a large opportunity like a CSC comes along.
I will remind you I mean we actually had levered down to 1.4x in anticipation of a deal the size of CSC.
But for the deals in the multi-$100 million range coming from where we are today we have the capacity to take those on.
And next we'll move to Paul Ginocchio at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Rick I was just again -- I know you made some comments on the CMS contract but have you learned anything over the last quarter? And is there any sort of update or different view on that I guess 3 or 6 months later? Then second of the 7.5 points of organic or core growth what percent -- what point -- how many points of that was due to the analytical sandbox initiatives? Great Paul.
On CMS now it's -- the team is working hard on getting the infrastructure of the system set up and ready to go.
We are expected to be fully operational come October 1.
Beyond that -- and obviously the government at the Federal level and state level are working very hard.
We're working very closely with them.
It's -- everything is unfolding as we had planned and had hoped at this juncture.
And again as I mentioned earlier when we get back together in October for our third quarter call we'll have really good insight at that juncture as to how the balance of the year will unfold out and next year as well.
We continue to remain optimistic.
The second point as far as analytical sandbox we just launched that as I think I mentioned in my comments that's just going live now.
So as it relates to the second quarter 7.5% organic core non-mortgage growth very little comes from the sandbox.
I expect it to be a more meaningful part going forward.
And we'll go next to Andrew Jeffrey at SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I apologize I had to jump on late.
So Rick I hope I'm not going to make you repeat yourself here.
And for Rick and/or Lee I guess segment profitability was pretty impressive especially in Workforce Solutions.
Can you speak specifically to some of the drivers there? Or just tell me to read the transcript if you answered that question already.
Yes.
The -- in Workforce Solutions we improved by 7 percentage points year-over-year following our first quarter where we also had shown very strong improvement.
The -- in the second quarter first quarter had a temporary factor in it that -- just a shift from Q4 to Q1.
But the second quarter and we'll see this on an ongoing basis about half of that improvement came from some acquisition-related amortization that is rolling off from our original acquisition of Workforce Solutions that became fully amortized during the quarter.
The other half is just real operating leverage and it's 2 things.
It's -- we've seen strong growth in the Verifications business which gives us good bottom line leverage.
And the second thing is we've been aggressively applying lean techniques to improve the efficiency across both of the subsegments within the Workforce Solutions business.
And the 2 of those drove about half of that improvement so you're seeing real cash improvement in those margins.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Would you consider that an inflection point? No I think this is probably more moving to another -- I'm not going to say plateau.
We try to drive some improvement every year but I don't see it continuing dramatic improvement.
I see us now having moved from the low to mid-20s up to the very low 30s.
Yes it's -- I have a little color to add there.
I agree with that completely is you had the big step up because of the amortization rolling off.
We'll always expect every business unit leader to continue to drive efficiency and productivity to give us some incremental lift.
And because of the great model we have as we grow online business like VOE/VOI they'll get some more.
I don't -- we're not going to get 300 400 basis points of improvement every year but you'll expect -- we should expect continue to have some improvement in margin across all businesses including EWS.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Rick you've done a great job with NPI and clearly demonstrating that Equifax is much more than a mortgage play.
When you think strategically about incremental technology or data sets what comes to mind? What should we think about you doing from a strategic perspective over the next 3 to 5 years to sustain the out-performance that you've enjoyed certainly post-recession? Well thank you for the compliment Andy.
There are so many levers we have to take this company to a much higher level of profitability and top line growth.
I'm really excited about analytics.
We've got a world-class guy we brought in.
He ran all of analytics for Hewlett-Packard.
He's working for Paul Springman now.
There is a lot of money to be made by expanding how we think about analytics.
But we're in a process of finalizing our strategic plan rollout out there.
Fraud and ID there's a big play for us there.
I mean if you think about the CMS there's an element of identification to make sure there's no fraud in the salary level there.
And that's a huge potential for us.
There's so much more we can do there and we're investing heavily in that for -- with Rajib Roy and his team.
There are some geographic places we don't play today that I'm extremely excited about expanding our footprint there beyond just Brazil for example.
Auto we talked about auto.
Auto we say was just an afterthought 2 years ago.
Now we're getting significant traction and great growth because of our unique data assets.
In government there is a world -- getting the CMS win is great for -- is the revenue that may come from CMS but it's opening the doors to different branches within the government at a rate we never anticipated.
And then lastly we talked about a few times insurance offers a lot of hope and potential for us as well.
And places like U.K.
we're already gaining traction.
In the U.S.
as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last one if I may.
I think I heard you mention perhaps that issuers are coming down the credit continuum a little bit.
Is that incremental to what you've seen over the last few quarters on the -- specifically on the consumer credit card side of your business? Yes.
So they were obviously coming out of the recession.
We're reluctant to loan to this lower credit spectrum.
What we're now saying is yes this incremental outreach where they're offering smaller lines of credit but offering lines of credit to like sub-prime or lower than prime.
So yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we're talking like maybe the 675 to 700 kind of FICO range? Correct.
And we'll go next to Andrew Steinerman at JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Rick in your opening remarks you talked about some signs of economic improvement kind of helping.
My -- and I know you used the word modest.
My question is where do you see that in your business? Is it what you just said issuers moving down the spectrum? Is there some place else that you can actually point that it's helping your business maybe from a consumer credit standpoint more broadly? Or what you're saying hey in the context of our guidance we're reassured with how the economy feels? Yes.
Good point Andrew.
Let me sort of clarify.
One yes we're seeing in the credit card issuance as an example we're going down market.
So you're seeing it in auto sales pick up.
As auto sales pick up there's a benefit to us and it's going to continue in 2014 as well.
Home sales are starting to pick up and that will bode well over time.
It's important -- but one second I will come back to the heart of your question in a second.
If you think about the mortgage market obviously modestly better than first half about as expected and modestly worse in the second half.
We expect the first half of 2013 on the refinancing to be tough as well much like the second half year but then a pickup in the second half.
And you're also starting to see existing home and new home sales pick up as well.
So I look to the second half of next year but you anniversary the refinancing kind of fallout and now you have new home sales and existing home sales continuing to climb that bodes very well for us.
The other point on economic pickup is you're starting to see now for the first time in years a bit of a pickup in GDP growth which is helping consumer confidence in the U.K.
and so lending in the U.K.
as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's cool.
And just could you square in with credit card? You mentioned in your comments just now that it's come up slightly in other parts of this call.
Is credit card applications as it relates to USCIS up now? Is it still modestly up or at the bottom? How would you describe credit card which is a bigger segment I think for -- than mortgage? Yes the prescreen business was up Jeff was it -- -- some 7% in the second quarter.
So it's starting to trend in the right direction.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I didn't mean the prescreen I meant the actual credit card applications driving consumer credit reports.
Oh it's up modestly.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
We want to thank everybody for your participation.
And with that operator we'll conclude the call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Q3 2013 Equifax Earnings Release Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
For opening remarks and introductions I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge with Investor Relations.
And with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
During this -- today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in filings with the SEC including our 2012 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will also refer to a non-GAAP financial measure adjusted diluted EPS attributable to Equifax.
Adjusted diluted EPS attributable to Equifax excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and associated tax effects.
This measure is detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation table included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Also please refer to our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab on our website for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff and thanks everyone for joining us this morning.
Third quarter was a really strong broad-based performance and largely came in as we had guided not only early in the year but then reconfirmed in our last call for the second quarter.
The third quarter performance was driven by a continued accelerated growth in our core non-mortgage products along with solid execution on our strategic initiatives around the company that offsetting mortgage market decline of over 34% for the quarter.
Revenue -- total revenue for the quarter was $572 million up 10% from the third quarter 2012.
Operating margin was an impressive 27.6% up significantly from 25.1% a year ago.
And adjusted EPS was $0.90 up 21% from 74%(sic)[$0.74] last year.
Year-to-date total revenue was $1.7 billion up 12%; and adjusted EPS $2.69 up 25%.
An important metric that we talk to you about routinely and something we focus on intensely here is the organic growth rate of our core non-mortgage market activities and the continued execution of strategic initiatives in our mortgage business -- across the company.
The progress we are making on broadening and diversifying our revenue growth is critical to successfully delivering our long-term business model.
In the third quarter the organic revenue growth in core non-mortgage market activities accelerated beyond the long-term range we have of 6% to 8% to 9% so a good execution across the business there.
As I always do let me briefly cover a few key highlights from each of our business units.
Starting with USCIS they continue to leverage the Equifax's extensive data assets analytical resources and technology capabilities to broaden and deepen our customer relationships and to deliver solid double-digit growth in the quarter.
USCIS has made great progress with its enterprise selling initiatives which we've talked about routinely.
And this has generated incremental core revenue growth for not only USCIS but also for Workforce Solutions and our North American Commercial business.
For example in the quarter we increased our revenue potential with a large bank by leveraging the full range of Workforce Solutions verifications offerings.
This new contract represents a 15% increase in revenue over the life of the contract.
You heard us talk about our KCP program key client program which started off with 4 of the largest banks in the U.S.
That team they have great leaders they've executed extremely well.
They've got great talent across that organization and they've done a great job with our KCP clients.
As a result of their success we continue to add accounts to their responsibility.
We've recently added 2 large telco customers that has integrated go-to-market strategy along with 2 large credit card companies added earlier this year.
We now have a total of 8 critical customers under the leadership of KCP.
That model continues to bode well for us in the U.S.
A couple more points on USCIS they have worked very hard throughout the year to drive strong organic growth in its core non-mortgage activities.
The rate of growth for these products and services increased each quarter this year.
And we expect that rate to increase again in the fourth quarter exiting 2013 at the highest level for the year.
Total mortgage market originations in the fourth quarter are expected to be down on somewhere between 40% and 50% when compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
This is consistent with our original expectations for the second half of the year.
So mortgage markets performing largely as we expected when we gave guidance back in December.
As a result we expect USCIS their reported revenue for the fourth quarter to be between 11% and 13% growth which is consistent with the second half guidance we gave in our second quarter release.
Let me move on to International.
International delivered a solid double-digit constant-currency growth rate and expanded its operating margin by focusing their energy on those initiatives where they're best positioned to win in all geographies around the world.
Year-to-date International's new product revenue from products launched in the prior 3 years reached a 14% level of total revenues.
And they are on the path to exceed that target -- their target for the full year.
So great execution by Paulino and his team around NPI.
Also on International our Personal Solutions product lines are delivering strong double-digit growth in the U.K.
through market penetration and new products.
It's a theme you've heard us talk about for the last year that continues.
And our high-value solutions in Technology and Analytical Services continue to deliver solid double-digit growth rates across the International footprint.
For the quarter we expect International's constant-currency revenue growth to be between 9% and 11% again very consistent with the guidance we gave during our second quarter release.
Onto Workforce Solutions.
They have successfully broadened each reach for both employment and income verification services to new end-user segments.
As a result their core organic growth in the non-mortgage market has accelerated in 2013.
And they expect to exit the year with double-digit growth in our non-mortgage market initiatives.
Just a great execution there by Dann and his team as well.
A couple of key points.
Through the development of unique solutions for some of our traditional-served markets the average revenue per active record in 2013 is expected to be almost double the amount it was back in 2007 when we completed the acquisition.
That's a series of better segmentation bundling of products strategic pricing initiatives and NPI.
Good job there.
We also continue to add new records to the premier database of the employment and income information known as The Work Number.
By the end of this year we expect to have over 230 million records an all-time high in The Work Number database which is well on our way to reaching our current target of 250 million records we've talked about a few quarters ago.
We now have over 3 000 companies reporting our information into The Work Number database also a new record.
For the fourth quarter we expect Workforce Solutions revenue growth to be flat or slightly down reflecting the continuation of strong growth in the non-mortgage market offset by the impact of the lower mortgage market activity which we discussed earlier under USCIS.
A good performance in the fourth quarter as well.
I want to make a quick update on the employment income verification project with the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
You've read about this.
You've seen it.
We have stood up our income verification platform on time.
We've successfully performed and automated verification processes without any problems.
But unfortunately there are a number of glitches within the system itself.
You may have read the article even this morning in The Wall Street Journal.
They're going to continue.
We should continue to expect hiccups in the launch of the Affordable Care Act for quite some time.
The good news is we've told each of you we have expected very little income or revenue from that this year.
But we stand ready to perform as soon as they get this resolved and we're convinced they will get it resolved it's just a matter of time.
Onto Personal Solutions.
They delivered double-digit revenue growth in the quarter and they are working on successful integration of this acquisition of TrustedID earlier this year.
We expect Personal Solutions growth in the fourth quarter to be between 8% and 11% again very consistent with the guidance that we gave you during the second quarter earnings call.
Last business unit North America Commercial Solutions.
They continue to perform well.
Year-to-date they have delivered double-digit growth rates through high-value services and market share gains and are on a path to deliver fourth quarter growth between 5% and 8%.
As we look forward we continue to expect North America Commercial Solutions to deliver growth in the long-term range of 6% to 10%.
Let me go back to a few corporate themes that I think are important too before I turn it over to Lee to give you some details on the financials.
The investments we've made in our new product initiatives and strategic acquisitions continue to provide solid returns as we further diversify across our served markets and broaden our solution offerings.
From double-digit growth in Workforce Solutions new end-user markets to double-digit growth in our analytics and decision technology offerings in International to the strength of our enterprise selling initiatives across USCIS to the steady above-market growth in Personal Solutions and Commercial Solutions we continue to identify opportunities for investments across each of our core operating units.
We're also finding great opportunities for strategic acquisitions.
As I mentioned earlier this quarter we closed on our acquisition of TrustedID for PSol.
We currently have a robust pipeline of opportunities which have the potential to strengthen our competitive position and broaden our product offerings.
The leadership team has done an outstanding job of executing on the strategic growth initiatives and operating objectives this year enabling us to successfully mitigate the impact of the mortgage headwinds that we expected.
And they began in the third quarter of this year.
We expect those headwinds to continue by the way through the first half of 2014 and improve in the second half of 2014.
The acceleration of our core organic non-mortgage market growth rates throughout 2013 positions us well for the fourth quarter and for 2014.
I'll talk more about that after Lee goes through his numbers.
As we look forward the path the we're on to be the global leader in information solutions by creating unparalleled insights with data that requires we continuously improve our critical strategic capabilities.
New product innovation and analytics are 2 very important competencies where we are making ongoing investments to improve our processes and enhance our domain expertise.
To me[ph] our competitive edge requires that we continually adapt and transform these capabilities.
These will continue to be areas of focus and investment for us going forward.
In the new product innovation area we continually focus on driving bigger and better ideas as well as improving our speed to market so time to revenue.
We've made great progress so far but the world doesn't stand still so we still have to continue to invest and improve those processes.
You'll here more about that in 2014.
The quality of our data and analytics expertise will enable us to support key solutions for our core business initiatives but will also serve to diversify our served markets and broaden our decisioning opportunities where any and all information can be used.
Because of our vast array of data assets the skill in drawing out relevant insights for our customers increasingly look for us -- for thought leadership and how to improve their decisioning activities and operating effectiveness.
The journey we're on continues to provide great opportunities for growth and for us to leverage our data assets our capabilities and expertise to solve problems for our customers in the future that we could not solve in the past.
Now I'll turn over to Lee for details on the financials.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I will be referring to the financial results from continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
You should also refer to the Q&amp;A and non-GAAP reconciliations attached to our earnings release for additional financial information.
Our third quarter performance is solid and broad-based.
It's also very consistent with what we anticipated when we gave our full year guidance in July.
Let me turn to the quarterly results.
Compared to the same quarter in 2012 in the third quarter of 2013 consolidated revenue of $572 million was up 10% on a reported basis and up 11% on a constant-currency basis.
Operating margin was 27.6% up 250 basis points from last year driven primarily by operating margin expansion in USCIS Workforce Solutions and our International business.
Diluted earnings per share attributable to Equifax was $0.71 up 14% from the same quarter next(sic)[last] year.
And excluding acquisition-related amortization and associated tax effects adjusted EPS was $0.90 a share up $0.16 or 21% when compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Moving to the individual business units.
Our U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $253 million up 15%.
The acquisition of CSC which we refer to as our Central Region contributed 14% growth.
And our core non-mortgage market organic growth including strategic initiatives contributed approximately 6% to growth while the decline in mortgage market volumes subtracted 5% from growth.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $184 million up 14%.
Excluding the Central Region revenue was flat as a decline due to lower mortgage market activity was offset by new products market penetration and pricing initiatives.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $28 million was up 15% compared to the third quarter of 2012 driven entirely by the acquisition of our Central Region.
This compares favorably to the Mortgage Bankers Application Index which was down 34% in the third quarter.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $41 million up 23%.
Organic growth was approximately 11%.
The operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 40.9% which was up from 40.1% in the third quarter of 2012.
Our International business units revenue was $129 million up 6% on a reported basis and up 11% on a constant-currency basis.
By region Latin America's revenue was $49 million up 5% in U.S.
dollars and up 16% in local currency led by strong growth in Marketing Services and continued good growth in Analytical and Technology Services.
Europe's revenue was $47 million up 12% in U.S.
dollars and up 11% in local currency.
Good growth in financial institutions and the insurance sectors in addition to continuing strong double-digit growth in Personal Solutions more than offset softness in Marketing Services and Technology Services.
Canada Consumer information revenue was $33 million up 1% in U.S.
dollars and up 5% in local currency driven primarily by Consumer Information Solutions and fraud solutions.
Our International operating margin was 30% compared to 27.4% in 2012 as all 3 geographic regions contributed to expanding margins.
Workforce Solutions revenue was $115 million for the quarter up 3%.
Verification Services with revenue of $69 million was flat when compared to the same quarter of 2012.
Double-digit growth in auto preemployment and government sectors offset a 12% decline in mortgage-related revenues.
Employer Services revenue was $46 million up 8% compared to last year.
And Workforce Solutions overall operating margin was 29.9% compared to 25.4% in Q3 of 2012 driven by reduced acquisition amortization and improved operating efficiencies.
Our North America Personal Solutions revenue was $52 million up 14% from a year ago.
Double-digit growth in our U.S.-based subscription revenue in Canada and the acquisition of TrustedID were the key drivers of this performance.
Operating margin was 26.3% compared to 28.4% in the third quarter of 2012 impacted particularly by the acquisition-related amortization and investment from our acquisition of TrustedID.
North America Commercial Solutions revenue was $23 million up 9% on a reported basis and up 10% on local-currency basis driven largely by strong double-digit growth in our U.S.
risk and marketing data services business segments.
The operating margin was 17.5% compared to 18.8% in the year ago quarter as we continue our investments in North America Commercial's strategic growth initiatives.
One other miscellaneous issue I'll comment on is we normally file our 10-Q within a day or so of our earnings release.
We received a comment letter from the SEC regarding our accounting for goodwill and intangibles in the CSC acquisition.
We don't believe any changes will be material to our GAAP financials and any changes would be noncash and not affect our adjusted EPS but we are seeking to complete this issue before filing our 10-Q and that may modestly delay our 10-Q filing.
And with that I'll turn this back over to Rick.
Thanks Lee.
Again the third quarter performance I think is a great example of how our preparation for the ultimate mortgage headwinds enabled us to continue to deliver on our commitments we made to our shareholders.
Team is very focused on execution.
They have the energy and discipline to commitments to both customers and shareholders.
The total mortgage market activity in the third quarter was what we'd anticipated and the fourth quarter mortgage market shaping up almost exactly as we had expected.
I'll give you some framework for the full year in a second.
In spite of mortgage headwinds we expect total Equifax organic growth in the core non-mortgage market activities in the fourth quarter to again exceed the top end of our long end organic growth range which was 6% to 8%.
As a result and assuming current exchange rates and the anticipated decline in mortgage we anticipate revenue in the fourth quarter to be in the range of 7% to 8% which is right in line with the full year growth around the middle of the 10% to 12% annual range that we gave you during our second quarter conference call.
Adjusted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be between $0.89 and $0.92 which is again consistent with the full year adjusted EPS guidance we gave during our last release.
The full year operating margin is expected to be at the top end of the 26% 27% range as incremental margins from our core non-mortgage initiatives effectively offset any impact in the decline in the mortgage-related revenue.
Here's how I shape up the year and I want to give you some framework for some points on how I think about the 2014 year.
I'd say the first half of the year the mortgage market was slightly stronger than anticipated.
Second half of the year the mortgage market was slightly weaker than expected.
And the good news is our core organic non-growth initiatives accelerated throughout the year enabling us to finish the year almost right on the original expectation.
So I'd like to provide just a very high level framework for how I think about 2014 and I'm going to do that through 5 individual points that I might -- think may help you as you think about Equifax next year.
Point #1 we exit 2013 with a broad-based execution from all business units.
It's as broad based as strong and consistent a performance as we've seen in quite some time from all the different BUs.
Number 2 core organic non-mortgage market growth accelerated throughout the year and that positions us well for 2014.
I remain very comfortable in our ability to deliver that organic growth rate in a range of the model we've committed to you 6% to 8%.
Number 3 our M&amp;A pipeline for small to midsized acquisitions is very strong and should add to both our topline and bottom-line performance next year.
Number 4 we're anticipating an improving global economy in 2014.
And we've talked a lot of the comments including our own.
And the assumption we're making is 2013 -- or '14 will in fact be modestly better than this year.
And that should put us some winds at our back for the first time in some time.
Number 5 mortgage early reads from Fannie and Freddie are calling for the market to be stronger in the second half than in the first half also calling for the market to be off somewhere in the mid 20s 23% to 24% or 25%.
And that early read is a decline that is less than we initially anticipated as we looked at 2014.
Again we'll have greater clarity on those points and more when we get together for our earnings call for the fourth quarter.
So with that operator I'd like to open it up to any questions our callers might have.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first today to David Togut with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Rick did I hear you correctly in your key points for 2014 that you thought you would be in the 6% to 8% organic revenue growth range for next year? Yes David.
What I was trying to say there is that we -- the team continues to accelerate the performance execute at high levels.
We're ending this year on a high note with 2 quarters in a row beyond the high end of our 6% to 8% range.
And that gives me confidence that we'll be in that range for next year of 6% to 8% yes.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful particularly given the mortgage activity.
Lee just shifting gears.
Usually you provide some very good perspective on the underlying drivers of OLCIS and USCIS in terms of just units and price.
Could you walk us through some of the units and pricing trends you saw in both segments? And if you could drill down a little bit and give us a feel for unit growth in let's say credit card and auto in addition to mortgage that would be very helpful.
I don't think we typically break our transaction debt -- growth down by the individual submarkets.
But our total volume growth in online credit reporting was down 2% for the quarter and average revenue per transaction was up 1%.
What was the other? Was there another line of business besides online that you asked about? Research Division</strong> Well for USCIS as a whole can you give us some perspective on volumes versus price? Well that's -- yes when we talk about USCIS we are typically focused on our online business where we have a relatively homogeneous source of revenue it being predominantly credit reporting.
The down 2% by the way compares -- is about the same as the last quarter which was also down 2%.
And the revenue performance with mortgage volume falling off which tends to be attractively priced the improvement in revenue per transaction was only -- was plus 1%.
It had been running at higher levels due to the mortgage mix in prior quarters.
David you asked the question too about a couple of the verticals.
One was auto and I think maybe credit card and something else.
But the auto market in USCIS continues to perform well and part of it's the market itself.
Part of it is I think we've discussed earlier this year the creation of a new vertical focused on auto with a new team leader new products and so on and so forth new partners.
That continues to perform well in USCIS.
Number 2 2 other markets that are performing well throughout the year including third quarter is the insurance vertical which you know has been a focus for us for couple of years now and third is retail revenue.
Research Division</strong> And just coming back to your comments on the margin expansion at Workforce Solutions.
Of the 450 basis points how much was a decline in purchase price amortization versus an improvement in operating efficiencies? Just trying to size the margin trends in that business going forward as the benefit from lower amortization rolls off.
The majority came from the reduced acquisition amortization and that's at the full rate that we're going to see for the next couple of years now.
So you won't see any further change in the effective acquisition amortization.
On top of that obviously operating efficiencies were an addition to that and also by the way helped offset with mortgage volume declining total Workforce Solutions volume flat.
That naturally if anything would have created a little bit of drag on margins and we were able to offset that.
Research Division</strong> Just final question.
You highlighted some acquisition opportunities particularly small- to mid-sized businesses.
Any particular vertical industries you want to highlight where you're focused from an M&amp;A perspective? No it's really tied back to our strategy.
It's not going to be anything where we'll catch anyone offguard.
It's adding some capabilities we need.
It's adding some additional footprint expansion that we need some tuck-in on current capabilities so it's pretty broad-based and consistent with our strategy.
And in fact as I look at it David every business unit has opportunities that we've identified.
As you know we just finished our 3-year strategic plan back in September.
So the M&amp;A pipeline seems right off of that so it looks good.
We'll take our next question from Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Andrew.
It sounds like the mortgage revenues at Equifax have performed way better than the market.
You referred to the MBA index being down 34% in the third quarter.
So Equifax's 3 practices has kind of widened the gap from the market.
Do you anticipate that happening and why? I mean continuing to happen and why? Yes Andrew.
Something we've been focused on now across the company and the mortgage vertical is 1 benefactor of that and that is finding ways to innovate at high rates finding ways to bring new products to market at high rates finding ways to bundle products together that no one else has so we can get more spend in the marketplace and trying to find ways to take share.
So mortgage is a subset of that overall strategy.
They performed well versus the banking index now for a number of years.
So yes I completely expect our performance to be above the market.
So when the market's up I expect it to grow at a faster rate than the mortgage market.
And when it's down I expect it to decline at a slower rate so yes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And you agree that Equifax's outperformance in that segment increased in the third quarter right? Clearly.
We'll take our next question from Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First could you talk a little bit about the competitive landscape for some of your products that serve the B2B lending landscape like commercial credit scores business failure scores et cetera? Are you seeing any share gains? Talk a little bit about pricing or any impact you're seeing from some new competition from Dun &amp; Bradstreet and others? Yes.
If you're referring predominantly to the U.S.
which it sounds like you are we've got great competitors in the U.S.
marketplace and good competitors around the world.
We respect what D&amp;B's doing we respect what Experian is doing.
But what we focus on here is our strategy our NPI our share gains.
And in U.S.
we were such a small player.
The team is doing a good job of growing through NPI and through share gains.
As I've said before multiple times share gains long term is a tough proposition.
What you're better off doing is finding ways to build products and solve problems that no one else can solve so the spend goes up and you get that incremental spend.
And that is definitely what our North America Commercial Solutions business is doing.
Yes because they're small they're also gaining share.
Research Division</strong> And I think you've also talked in the past about a push to sales from additional Verification Services to various verticals that provide consumer loans where your penetration is low.
Could you maybe talk a little bit about the penetration of employment versus income verification.
I'd say the auto dealers versus credit card companies student loans mortgage et cetera.
Just a little bit of color on the different vertical penetration? Yes.
I usually give you some details on the different verticals.
I don't think I have that off my head today.
But that's a huge part of Dann's -- if you think of The Work Number strategy it centers on a couple of things.
Number 1 is rapidly growing -- I mean 3 things rapidly growing the database which that team has done a marvelous job of doing going from something like 180 million records to 230 million records.
Number 2 is finding a way to get more value out of each record you have which they've done.
I mentioned that the value for records almost doubled what it was back in 2007.
Number 3 then is -- to your point is to deploy new resources and leverage -- redeploy those resources so that we would call enterprise selling to take the income employment verifications to markets we never thought about before like government insurance auto and card.
As I mentioned in my opening comments that's really been a driver of Dann's growth outside the mortgage market.
So as the mortgage market declines he's getting great performance there.
And we're at the early days of that performance in my view too.
I clearly see a path of 250 million records.
I see more value in each record and I see us selling more and more to non-mortgage markets.
The last thing to talk about with EWS is they're getting great traction around an acquisition we had a couple of years ago called eThority which is bringing analytics to Dann's customer base that we never could do before.
And that will be a stream of revenue growth going forward.
We'll go next to Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First just a question around the M&amp;A.
I mean correct me if I'm wrong but it sounds like the pipeline of -- at least the way you sounded was a lot better than maybe it has been.
So does that imply that maybe the pace of acquisitions relative to what you guys have done might speed up in '14? That's just the first part.
And let me just -- I'll ask the next one.
Just in terms of -- you said small to medium size.
Just curious on what the thoughts plans were around the larger acquisitions because you guys have obviously done well with the 2 major ones you've done.
Just thoughts around that.
Great thank you.
No I still think our long-term financial model is largely going to be driven around organic growth initiatives.
That is the things we know how to do.
We do them very well.
We've been at them now for 8 years and it's lower risk.
Having said that we also have always talked about 1 2 points some years higher than that some years a little less coming from M&amp;A.
So over the long-term model I think you should still think about us being in that range.
It doesn't mean to your second point that we'll shy away from the large deals.
We have done very well to your point with the TALX acquisition back in -- almost 7 years ago and with CSC 9 10 months ago.
But those are naturally -- obviously have higher risk and higher price tags.
So we always keep an eye on those from time to time.
What I do is I'm a firm believer that those have got to be paced at a very slow rate so you can fully digest integrate and succeed with the large acquisitions where you have the ability to maybe have a little faster cadence with the smaller to mid-sized deals.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then so I guess with that in context just obviously you guys did back into the buyback market share buybacks this quarter.
You're down to that leverage range you guys have historically wanted to be.
So going forward obviously unless you guys are involved in some M&amp;A's that using the cash should we continue to expect the buybacks to be implemented? Yes.
I'd say strategically the philosophy that Lee and I have of using our cash first for organic growth initiatives remains two is we remain committed to our dividend policy that we implemented a couple of years ago.
Third as I just mentioned to you Manav M&amp;A will be an important part of our long-term growth strategy.
And we remain committed to buying back shares and it will ebb and flow.
As you said we've delevered from over 2x EBITDA in the first quarter to around 1.6x.
We'll look at what comes up on the M&amp;A side and balance that off with share repurchases.
We'll take our next question from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Rick I know it's probably difficult but I think if you looked at the previous announcement on the CMS contract it would have implied roughly $65 million a year.
With the sort of maybe slower start of the healthcare exchanges can you talk about what you're thinking about for 2014 from that contract? Yes and that's a great question.
We will plan for a very -- financially plan for a very modest amount of revenue at this time because of all the issues they're having.
I remain very very hopeful that this thing will in fact materialize at a level that makes a material impact to us be it the $65 million range that you just calculated yourself Paul or something around that.
We'll know a lot more as I said when we were on the call together back in the second quarter come February.
I'm hopeful the budgets the administration is working through now are largely ironed out.
The math is straightforward math.
And sometime we can all walk through that but how you get that $65 million is pretty straightforward math.
It's just a matter of them getting the system up and running.
So as I mentioned earlier we have contemplated very little revenues this year.
At this juncture I think it's prudent for us to assume modest revenues next year.
And if things are up and running and humming come February we'll have 4 5 months of experience under our belts.
And we'll have much better transparency to what that might look like in 2014.
Research Division</strong> And just on the government shutdown I know you do some work within Workforce Solutions around E-Verify and I-9.
Is that just delayed revenue within the quarter or does that have an impact for the entire quarter for the fourth quarter? It's a good question Paul.
It's so small.
It was just not on E-Verify and I-9 there was obviously the mortgage market.
You pull a 4506-T if you can't find an instant verification on The Work Number.
That slowed down.
It's hard to discern specifically and quantify how much of that was a drag versus some of your catch-up in the following weeks but there's no doubt we did feel some slowdown in EWS as a result of the government shutdown.
But I would not categorize it as being dramatic.
We'll go next to Jeff Meuler with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Before I get greedy and ask this question I want to recognize that 2 quarters ago people were saying how are you going to get up to 6% to 8% when you're trending at 4.5% core growth.
So hats off to the team in terms of what you've done the last 2 quarters.
But now I'll get greedy with my question.
Why is 6% to 8% the right number? And I ask it from the standpoint you're clearly trending above that now in what I'll call for a lack of a better term kind of a blah economy.
So if the economy gets better why is 6% to 8% the right number? Is there anything that is going on right now that you view as unsustainable? I'll leave it there.
It is awfully greedy Jeff thank you.
Thank you for the backhanded compliments too I appreciate that.
I'd say when we framed up the long-term financial model it was contemplating multiple cycles.
Some cycles when you have a downturn in the economy other cycles when you have an upturn.
Obviously when you have an upturn in the economy you should expect to be at the upper end of that range.
And when you have a downturn maybe at the lower end of that range.
So the view is that is a sustainable model for you to think about Equifax long term.
Secondly there's a lot of thought that went into this 6% to 8%.
It's just not a number we pull out of the hat.
It is taking a look at things we're doing around NPI.
What's our success rate how many products do we launch every year what's the time to revenue from your launch what's the success rate of the launch bundling segmentation strategic pricing.
This is a very systematic model that we build across multiple initiatives across every BU in every country that gets to that 6% to 8% range.
And we feel that's a pretty good range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then understand that you guys have been offsetting it with expansion in the core.
But how should we think about the incremental margins for all of your mortgage business across the 3 buckets? The incremental margin it's a mix of some very high margin business additional credit reports additional instant verifications along with some services that have higher pass-through costs.
When you put those 2 together incrementally we're probably looking at incremental margins that are in the 40% to 50% range.
So with mortgage dropping we've got to work extra hard to try to offset that from a margin perspective.
Research Division</strong> And will you -- do you think you'll continue to be able to offset that in the first half of 2014? Yes.
I think we're looking for kind of probably comparable margins in 2014 and 2013.
Jeff here's how Lee and I think about margins.
We gave you a framework of trying to deliver 25 basis points of margin improvement every year.
And then this year we gave you a range I think it was 26% to 27%.
And we delivered or delivering at the very high end of that range.
So I still think over -- I think of 27%-ish as being a good foundation for us.
And then over multiple years getting back to the 25-basis-points improvement year in year out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up question to Andrew's on mortgage.
Understand that you guys have a long-term track record of outperforming the broader market.
But is the magnitude of the outperformance at all sustainable? Or why the big step-up in Q3 to be flat organically in a 34% down market? That's obviously a huge gap.
Again I'd say it's nothing -- no 1 single -- single silver bullet it comes down to multiple things.
It is new products.
It is bundling of existing products with new products to get more share of wallet and share gain.
It is strategic pricing initiatives.
And the combination of all 3 or 4 of those things has continued to pay dividends for us.
We'll take our next question from Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to ask a little bit you're doing a great job -- I'm just going to beat this horse one more time by the way -- on offsetting the mortgage headwinds.
And one thing I was just thinking about is just the Mortgage Solutions business is probably like the most levered to mortgage.
And you offset the mortgage headwinds the most in that area.
And verification has got relatively less compared to mortgage.
And you had -- the implication is that there was not the same kind of offset because you kept them both flat.
Were there particular initiatives specifically in mortgage that were -- it was more of a focus for you guys than there were in Verification Services? I'm just trying to get a little bit of color around that.
No I'd say the USCIS Mortgage Solutions business has had a longer period of time to build new products to allow them to offset the decline in mortgage.
Dann has been at this diversification into -- someone else asked a second ago -- auto insurance government collections card.
And Dann's been out there may be 2.5 years or so and he's just building that momentum now.
So they're doing a great job.
I don't ever want to underestimate that but he is newer to the game at diversifying the revenue streams building out the analytics capability which is what gives me so much confidence that as time goes on our ability to continue to grow regardless of mortgage cycles is enhanced.
The longer we get Dann's team at this diversification model the better off we're going to be.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good color on that.
One other thing just in the healthcare market.
I know they've got that big CMS contract which should hopefully be very nice for you guys in the coming years.
But there's a global just kind of a trend that it is going to force -- and we're seeing this right now -- just more higher deductible healthcare plans.
And that's going to force basically doctors hospitals everyone to try to collect from consumers or set up their billing with consumers and analyze it more upfront.
I was just wondering do you have particular initiatives in that area in order to kind of capitalize on this trend? Because I know some of the other competitors out there are focusing on that right now.
Yes we continue to look that.
We're bringing consultants in.
We looked at M&amp;A opportunities.
There may be opportunities.
It's not glaring to me Shlomo right now on what those opportunities are.
I think our plate is so full.
If we can execute the CMS contract fully and when I say fully it is not just the sort of bite of the apple which is the contract that's been alluded to now for a few quarters but it's the follow-on effects that CMS will be looking for.
It is then going to IRS and other arms of the government who need verification --- actual instant verification of income and employment for many many social services that are offered.
I think if we focus our efforts there on providing unique value we -- you our investors and our customers and ourselves will be nicely rewarded.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up on that.
Just right now your contract is for the automatic Verification Services you guys also do the manual Verification Services.
Do you see that contract eventually being expanded to that over time because there's the same need? That was the multiple bite to the apple I was referring to.
I think first and foremost [indiscernible] CMS is so alone[ph] getting the system stood up and the contractors ready.
All of their energy is there but we have made the offer.
We do multiple things so they're very interested.
We're one of the few vendors who actually stood up our capabilities on time on budget so on and so forth so we've got enormous credibility with them right now.
We stand ready to do more as soon as they're ready.
We'll take our next question from Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's actually -- it's Matt Roswell in for Dan.
Two questions.
First on the margins for next year could you talk about how even -- how you get to flat given the headwinds from the mortgage business and the loss of incremental margin there the sort of grow over of the CFC accretion? I'm just trying to get a feel for how you get that margin growth or flat margin I should say.
Lee why don't you take that one? Yes.
Of course the accretion on margin from CSC will maintain itself.
It doesn't expand again but it will -- that will maintain itself.
The mortgage pressures we will be working to offset that through growing some of our other lines of business.
And then continuing -- we had a continuing lien effort across the company to drive efficiencies year in year out and that also gives us some benefit.
So as I said next year's margins may more likely be flattish to this year's rather than typical but of course that's following a year where we had great expansion.
But we do think there are enough levers that we can likely offset the pressure we'll see on mortgage particularly in the first half of the year where we're going to be facing the most challenging comparables on mortgage in 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is are you seeing sort of more activity down in the lower-credit-quality consumer? And I don't want to say subprime yet but are you starting to see that come back or...
Yes yes.
I think Matt you're seeing that the banks get a little more aggressive especially in the auto market.
They're being aggressive.
It's not anywhere close to what the credit quality may have been back in 2005 '06 '07.
But yes the banks are being a little more aggressive.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is that part of the reason...
Matt to your question of being a little cautious about what the bank behavior might be while we do see them getting to subprime it's interesting because is that it is very careful very structured.
It's the upper tiers of sub prime.
We're not seeing the indiscriminate behavior of 2005 '06 and '07.
So we think it appears healthy from everything we can observe both on the tiers they're getting into as well as the early-stage delinquency remaining well under control.
So it is -- from what we can see it's being done prudently but it is happening.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could sneak in a third one in there.
The strength on the consumer financial marketing the old credit marketing business.
Can you talk about what the driver to that was? The biggest driver in that is we've talked some in the past about our IXI business having some downdraft as certain uses of the product were cut back on.
We're now seeing IXI return to growth.
So by comparison that's where the acceleration is.
The underlying traditional credit marketing is running kind of comparable to the last couple of quarters and it's really the acceleration back to growth of IXI.
In fact IXI Matt that was the strongest quarterly growth we've had in a long time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Since you mentioned IXI I'm surprised no one's asked about the regulatory environment.
Any thoughts changes et cetera? I think it's a correlation to what Lee just said.
The fact that we're growing we work very closely with our customers.
And it wasn't regulatory it was uncertainty around regulation that drove some concern.
And working very closely with the customers understanding their interpretation of the concern and then modifying our product offering accordingly while still adding value has enabled us to return to growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what about in terms of the broader business the CFPB all that fun stuff? Yes that is fun.
CFPB we continue to stay very close to them.
There's no real changes since the last time we discussed.
They continue to visit.
But as far as impact to the business expense to the business impact on product offerings it remains as we've discussed before.
Very manageable at this point in time.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had to jump on late so I apologize if I'm repetitive Rick and Lee.
With regard to -- I just want to clarify a little bit on the margin discussion.
With regard to margin I know historically Equifax has referred to EBIT but now some of the intangibles amortization is rolling off.
Is it more appropriate to be looking at your EBITDA margin going forward as the right measure of profitability? No that's a great great question Andrew.
We would -- always thought that operating margin -- Lee and I do obviously routinely look at cash margin and EBITDA margin how that performs versus operating margin.
So you don't become complacent with operating margin growth because of the amortization.
So we do look at it.
We thought about do we start using that metric is a means of communicating to our investors and the sell side guys.
And we'll kick that around.
We may in fact do that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So when you're thinking about flat margin for '14 that's EBIT? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Which implies probably a down EBITDA margin? No I'm not sure that's right.
I'm not sure.
At least at the moment I don't think there's a lot of difference in the acquisition amortization this year and next year maybe just a slight amount just because revenue's growing but ...
Yes.
I don't see a big difference in those 2 trends in 2014.
And Andrew here's what we could do.
Let me now kick this around.
If we think there's merit in discussing it we can come back at the February earnings call.
Well our D&amp;A's very public.
It's in our release.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
Okay.
And then Rick with regard to the 9% non-mortgage core organic revenue growth can you opine a little bit or expand I guess on new end markets and maybe you did that.
That's why I apologize if I'm asking you to repeat yourself.
But were there some particular call-outs in terms of end markets or customers that drove that above-trend performance? No that's right.
No it was -- as I mentioned in my early comments which you unfortunately couldn't hear it was really broad-based.
It was all 5 BUs -- 6 BUs.
It was all countries and it's driven by the same things that you've seen us talk about which is new products bundling of products segmentation pricing all the things we've been doing now for 8 years really starting to jump.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly could you give us an update on Russia and whether or not that's a business that potentially becomes wholly owned by Equifax at some point? Yes.
From a market perspective and you and I were together recently it continues to perform extremely well.
We are in a very good #1 position in the marketplace.
We are adding contributors of data at records paces.
We were adding users of data at record paces.
We're growing top line bottom line.
We're innovating.
We're leveraging now more fully.
We'll do so even more next year.
All the capabilities we have in our International arena for Paulino Barros to bring more products and platforms to Russia.
And we're diligently working with our partners there to see if there's a path for us to take a bigger role and consolidate Russia.
We like the business and the team has done a heck of a job over the last 5 or 6 years at running it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And would that be hypothetically an accretive acquisition? Yes I don't think of it as accretive.
We already own 49%.
Well 50%.
50%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So are you consolidating now? We don't consolidate.
Yes.
And Andrew by law in Russia we're limited to 50% ownership.
So it would be us -- it's just the government [indiscernible] partners is what we're talking about here Andrew.
Okay I want to thank everybody for participating in the call today and we'll be available this afternoon if you have any additional questions.
Thanks again and that concludes the call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference.
Have a great rest of your day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Q4 2013 Equifax Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations and with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in filings with the SEC including our 2012 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
In order to better understand our operating performance it's important to remember that there were some unusual or infrequent items in the fourth quarter of 2012: the CSC acquisition fees a pension settlement and certain unique income tax items all of which were detailed in our fourth quarter release in February of 2012.
In addition there were some usual or infrequent items in the fourth quarter of 2013: the collection of certain reserved 2012 billings a restructuring charge to realign our internal resources against our most important strategic opportunities and an impairment of our investment in Boa Vista Servicos driven by reduced near-term market expectations for credit information services in Brazil and increased investment needed to fully integrate and capitalize on a longer-term opportunity.
We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax adjusted operating revenue and adjusted operating margin that will be adjusted for certain items which affect the comparability of the underlying operational performance.
Adjusted operating revenue excludes the collection of certain reserved 2012 billings.
Adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and the associated tax effects as well as certain other items.
For 2012 the excluded items are the aforementioned CSC acquisition fees the pension settlement and certain special income tax items.
And then for 2013 excluded items are the collection of certain reserved 2012 billings which occurred during the fourth quarter of 2013 the resource realignment charge and the impairment of our investment in Boa Vista.
Adjusted operating margin excludes certain items.
The items excluded for 2012 are the CSC acquisition fees and the pension settlement which was a noncash charge.
For 2013 adjusted operating margin excludes the collection of certain reserved 2012 billings and the resource realignment charge.
These measures are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Also please refer to our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab on our website for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff.
And thanks to each and every one of you excuse me for the flexibility in working with us to move the call at a day we have experienced as I think you've seen a pretty severe storm down here.
And those of you on the East Coast are experiencing a storm today so I know it's difficult for you as well.
So you're in our thoughts as you get through the storms the next few days.
Jeff's kind of preamble there is obviously longer than normal.
It's due to the fact that we've had a number of moving parts in the quarter and it's our desire to give you as much transparency as possible hence Jeff's comments.
And also what I'm going to do here is before I get into the details of the quarter and the business unit performance I want to reflect back on the last conversation we had together which is for the third quarter 2013 call.
We talked about the outlook for fourth quarter 2013 and we gave you some insight into our expectations for calendar year 2014.
So if you wind back to our last call we thought fourth quarter revenue would come in between 6% and 8%.
We delivered at 7% reported and 8.4% constant dollar growth.
We also said that organic nonmortgage market growth would come in at the upper end of our 6% to 8% targeted range and we delivered 8.1%.
So 2013 very much came in line as we expected.
As I said back on the last call we talked about 2014 we said mortgage would face strong headwinds in the first half of the year lessening headwinds in the back half of the year and that seems to be holding up pretty much as we expected and Lee will give you a lot of texture and color around the mortgage market expectation for the year.
For growth we said expect us in 2014 to deliver organic -- core organic nonmortgage growth in a range of 6% to 8%.
We're clearly anticipating being in that range for the year.
During the call Lee and I will give you greater transparency into the FX impact which I think you've all seen has had pretty significant volatility starting back in December and continuing into January.
So Lee will help you understand how the FX impact will impact both our revenue growth for the year and our EPS growth and again he'll give you more insight into the mortgage market outlook for the year.
So in summary and before I get into the details here 2013 was a great year.
It ended as we expected.
And as we sit here now in February 2014 with the exception of FX it looks very much like the picture we painted for you back during the third quarter call.
I hope that helps a bit.
And obviously we have ample time for Q&amp;A once Lee and I go through the details.
I'll now jump into my traditional comments regarding the fourth quarter.
Our fourth quarter performance reflects continued strong execution on our strategic growth initiatives as 4 of our 5 business units met or exceeded the guidance we gave you during the third quarter call.
For the quarter adjusted total revenue was $571 million up 7% from the fourth quarter of 2012.
More importantly our core nonmortgage market growth -- organic growth was 8% for the quarter enabling us to more than offset the mortgage headwinds that increased as expected from the third quarter.
The adjusted operating margin was 27.4% up significantly from 25.5% in 2012.
Adjusted EPS was $0.91 a share up 21% from $0.76 a year ago.
Year-to-date adjusted total revenue was $2.3 billion up 11%.
And adjusted EPS was $3.60 up 24%.
A very solid year indeed.
Lee will shortly give the detailed financials for the quarter.
But before that as I normally do I'll cover some key business highlights for the year and how we see ourselves positioned for 2014.
Looking back starting with USCIS.
With mortgage headwinds and the integration of its largest acquisition ever USCIS took on some very big challenges last year and then delivered an impressive performance.
As we expected our core nonmortgage market organic revenue growth accelerated from the third quarter ending the year at the upper end of the long-term growth target of 5% to 7%.
Through verticalizing of the sales organization USCIS has developed a much deeper understanding of our customers' challenges and new opportunities for growth.
Combined with our enterprise sales strategy we are developing more enduring customer relationships by integrating and cross-selling products from all of our business units.
In 2013 we expanded our key client program from 4 clients to 8 major clients including 4 large banks 2 telecoms and 2 large finance companies.
The success of our KCP program is broadening relationships with our largest customers and has elevated our interaction in these institutions to the very senior executive levels.
In addition to our more traditional products we are helping them with leveraging more sophisticated data and analytics to enhance underwriting decisions mitigating fraud and improving identity management [indiscernible] linking our data with their internal data regulatory compliance and improving collections effectiveness.
As the economy stabilizes and they turn their focus to growth and they will do so we expect even more opportunities to emerge that will further leverage our unique data assets and analytics and technology capabilities.
One of USCIS' most significant accomplishments in 2013 was the seamless integration of the CSC Credit Services asset we acquired in December of 2012.
By the end of the year they achieved all their financial and business objectives.
In addition all the former CSC Credit Service customer accounts have been assigned to the appropriate sales channel to ensure the best service levels for those customers going forward.
We talked about that acquisition being a low-risk acquisition but one we took very seriously and the team just did a heck of a job in delivering on the integration and financial package last year.
In 2014 we expect USCIS reported revenue growth to be in the 0% to 2% range as we cycle through the mortgage headwinds particularly in the first half of the year.
Their core nonmortgage market organic growth in 2014 is expected to be in the 5% to 7% range consistent with their long-term growth target we've communicated to you of 5% to 7%.
International.
They again had another strong performance in 2013 delivering 11% constant dollar growth which is at the upper end of our multi-year target range.
Throughout the year they strengthened their market position by continuing to invest in new product innovation and strategic acquisitions.
In 2013 14% of their revenue came from new products launched in the prior 3 years.
We call that our Vitality index.
Some highlights for International.
With the mobile phone penetration across the globe peaking our telecom customers face challenges in delivering faster organic revenue growth.
Leveraging our vertical expertise in the U.S.
we are working with customers to leverage data and analytics to develop high-value propensity models which can deliver as much as a 30% improvement to their decisioning process for postpaid account origination processes.
In Latin America approximately 65% of all adults are unbanked.
Here we're leveraging our experience with differentiated data assets to develop tools that will improve financial institutions' underwriting decisions for individuals who have no credit history.
Most recently we closed 2 very important strategic acquisitions for International Inffinix in Mexico and the TDX Group which is headquartered in the U.K.
These acquisitions broadened our decisioning and workflow management solutions offerings in collections and enables us to further penetrate existing as well as new customer relationships in our served markets.
Inffinix a small company provides collections workflow software on a licensed basis to companies throughout the Latin American region.
The software enables customers' collection staff to efficiently process manage and track accounts throughout the entire collections process.
Today Inffinix's geographic footprint includes customers in Mexico Brazil Chile Peru Colombia and Costa Rica.
And our plan is to take this product which is very well suited for Central and South America across our entire Latin American footprint in the coming years providing for additional growth opportunities.
TDX provides data and analytics-based debt management solutions.
Essentially they're the middleman between the institution and the collection agencies determining the optimal placement of accounts to maximize collections on the institutions' delinquent portfolio.
With their unique data and analytics TDX provides critical high-value solutions to customers largely in the U.K.
Spain and Australia.
And again we plan on not only growing TDX in that footprint but taking it to countries like Canada and the United States down the road for again additional growth opportunities.
Historically both these companies have experienced double-digit revenue growth and carry EBITDA margins which are comparable to our company average.
You think about it this way as well we play in the collections area today.
These give us 2 great opportunities TDX like a SaaS model and we said Inffinix has a license model that allow us to service our existing customers and new customers in ways we never could do before.
It puts us on a more level playing field with others in the marketplace also.
Over the course of 2014 both these companies will be fully integrated into International's Technology and Analytical Services business.
We also made an acquisition of the #1 credit bureau in Paraguay giving us a leading competitive position in another important geography across Latin America.
As you may know we were already in Paraguay.
This gives us the ability to combine #1 and #2.
The U.K.
and Spain had an outstanding year in face of difficult economic conditions delivering strong growth and gaining market share by focusing on new products assessing new data sources and developing new products.
For 2014 we expect International's constant dollar -- constant currency revenue growth including the TDX and Inffinix acquisitions to be between 30% and 35% growth over 2013.
And Lee will give you more texture around that and the impact on EPS later.
Workforce Solutions delivered one of the most outstanding performances in 2013 and revamped many of the go-to-market strategies and ambitiously entered new markets where we'll leverage their enterprise-selling initiatives with USCIS energize their organization with talent development and outside hires.
They also significantly accelerated their core nonmortgage market organic growth in the third quarter to a very impressive 14% growth in the fourth quarter.
As a result all of our key nonmortgage verticals and Verification Services delivered double-digit growth driven by market penetration and new products.
Our recently announced Decision 360 Solution to the auto industry is a powerful example of how Workforce Solutions is finding new opportunities for revenue growth by leveraging our data assets and verification resources.
Through a single-ordering interface a dealer can get verification of employment verification of income verification of address verification of rent and verification of auto insurance while the consumer is in the dealership a really big win for the auto dealers.
And these are all delivered via the Internet with a single sign-on.
Combined with our credit reports and scores this represents one of the newest Decision 360 product offerings and a true disruptor in the marketplace.
And historical records in the Work Number are also providing a new opportunity to drive revenue growth.
We now have 56 million active employed individuals in our database and over 235 million total records.
We now have over 3 100 companies contributing payroll information into our Work Number database.
We're very much on target to reach our goal of over 70 million active records in the next few years.
For new product innovation EWS has implemented triggering services that enable state governments to apply greater fiscal discipline in their administration of various social programs.
They can validate and verify someone's level of income are they employed or not employed before they provide a social service.
Finding new applications for our unique data demonstrates to our customers the commitment we have to innovation and to delivering high-value solutions that improve their underwriting decisions.
The Employer Services portion of Workforce Solutions also had an outstanding year in 2013.
One of the biggest initiatives was the implementation of SIDES which is the State Information Data Exchange System along with CaseBuilder to significantly streamline the unemployment claims management process.
Currently 31 states are on SIDES platform which standardizes streamlines and automates their entire unemployment claims process.
These 2 technology platforms are expected to contribute to improved operating performance as well as customer service market penetration and retention.
To be honest that part of EWS was underinvested.
Dan and the team have stepped up the investment.
We've gone from a business that was probably lagging to a business that's clearly leading in unemployment claims which bodes well short term and long in the marketplace.
EWS has also implemented a number of Lean initiatives to further streamline their work process improving the quality of service to our customers increasing our penetration of customers with employee services solutions strengthen these relationships and increases their contributions of data through the Work Number database.
Finally one of the most significant new product launches in 2013 was our Affordable Care Act management platform.
Leveraging the analytical expertise we acquired through our eThority acquisition in 2011 this product is helping employers understand the financial impact of and mainly as their ongoing compliance with the Affordable Care Act truly leading edge in the marketplace.
And as importantly this product has resulted in additional contributions to the data into the Work Number database as we sign new customers seeking to understand and ensure they're compliant.
Said another way one of the ways we can help those clients make sure they're compliant is if they give us their Work Number database which they're now doing.
So we add to the records database and we generate revenue through the analytics to ensure their compliant with the Affordable Care Act.
We began demonstration of this product in December of 2012 with the platform operational by May of 2013.
In October of 2013 this product was awarded the HR Tech Top Product of the Year a great example of our focus and commitment to solving our customers' most critical decision needs and our ability to rapidly deploy these critical solutions.
For 2014 we expect Workforce Solutions revenue growth to be approximately flat to up slightly when compared to 2013 reflecting the strong mortgage headwind we have been expecting particularly for the first half of the year.
Their core nonmortgage market organic growth in 2014 is expected to be an impressive 8% to 11% growth when compared to their long-term growth target of 7% to 9%.
On to Personal Solutions.
Personal Solutions delivered double-digit growth for the year exceeding the long-term growth target and expanding operating margins by over 100 basis points.
Through intense focus on customer retention and lifetime value we have consistently increased average revenue per subscriber and return on marketing spend.
PSol has developed some best-in-class management disciplines which we're now implementing not only in the U.S.
but in Canada U.K.
and we're taking it to Latin America as well.
The acquisition of TrustedID was PSol's first acquisition.
It significantly broadens our product line in identity protection market and gives us a technology platform that we can leverage in the delivery of indirect solutions to many of our B2B customers.
While North America Commercial Solutions experienced a market slowdown and project slowdown in the fourth quarter they delivered solid results in 2013 gaining share in what turned out to be an anemic market growth for small business [indiscernible] and they grew the business at 7% in 2013 in constant dollars.
Let me go back as I always do to a few of the corporate highlights and then transition to Lee for the detailed financials.
NPI new product innovation.
We've talked about that for 6 7 years now.
2013 was a very impressive year.
For the year we launched 47 new products and our NPI revenue was up 18%.
More importantly 4 of our 5 business units exceeded their NPI revenue targets for the year.
And during the year we also launched an initiative to reengineer our process to further institutionalize new learnings and experiences so we can continue to drive growth and strengthen our competitive position through innovation.
As you know when you've had something this long it's good to take a timeout reinvigorate it tweak it reinvent it if you have to and that's what we've done.
It's probably our second or third time we've done that in the 7 or 8 years we've had NPI.
In 2013 we launched 7 new products under our Decision 360 strategy and we currently have 16 active new Decision 360 product initiatives across 3 business units that will be launched in 2014.
We continue to leverage Lean to improve our operating efficiency and we're leveraging Lean to speed up time to revenue further enhancing revenue growth.
For example: In Workforce Solutions we totally reworked the process for loading new clients into the Work Number database.
This drove a 68% reduction in the time required improving our service to customers and accelerating the time to revenue.
We also leveraged our expertise in Lean with our customers to improve or streamline their operations and their interaction with us.
These initiatives have significantly enhanced our relationship with our customers and made us a more valued partner for future business success.
We see that Lean to the customer is a true differentiator in the marketplace and one that our key customers very much appreciate.
Strategic acquisitions play a critical role in our long-term growth strategy.
Since 2012 we made acquisitions in 6 countries supporting strategic initiatives in 3 of our business units.
We've also exercised our call option in Russia increasing our ownership to 50% which is the current foreign direct investment allowed by Russian law.
Our strategic acquisitions have been and will continue to be a part of our long-term growth model.
Each of our business units is involved in identification recording and the due diligence activities for all of our acquisitions.
Historically we have not participated in auctions preferring to nurture these relationships to better understand the opportunities culture and the integration challenges.
For example TDX is a great example of that.
For those that we've already made we continue to identify new applications that were not even contemplated at the time of the original acquisition.
That's important here.
As we buy companies good solid companies tuck-in companies that when we get to know them we find ways to grow their businesses at ways we had not contemplated within the pro forma.
Our pipeline of strategic tuck-in acquisitions continues to be robust and we expect to continue to see these opportunities where the valuation and strategic fit is optimized.
I'll underscore they're tuck-in acquisitions.
That is by and large our focus.
The leadership team of Equifax has relentlessly focused on both the opportunities and the challenges in 2013.
In many respects and I hope you agree 2013 was a record year for the company.
We delivered strong performance in the face of dramatic slowdown in mortgage originations penetrating new customers and new markets closed and integrated new strategic acquisitions and we increased our shareholder value by over $2 billion.
2014 is off to a good start.
We've already closed 2 strategic acquisitions in our International and Commercial businesses and launched a major new Decision 360 initiative that we just talked about in the outer sector.
We believe our diversified portfolio of businesses investments strategic acquisitions and the ability to drive core nonmortgage organic growth through innovation and execution will enable us to continue driving value for our customers and our shareholders.
And with that Lee if you could go through the financials.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll be referring to the financial results from continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
As we mentioned at the outset of the call we had a number of unusual or infrequent items which impacted both revenue and operating income in the quarter.
In order to facilitate your understanding of the operating performance for Equifax and its business units we have prepared tables attached to the earnings release which reflect our operating performance excluding these unusual items.
The non-GAAP reconciliations which are also attached to the earnings release provide a detailed reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to their respected GAAP measure.
Our fourth quarter performance was solid and very much in line with what we had expected.
We have a couple more quarters where the mortgage headwinds will challenge us but so far it's playing out pretty much as we'd expected.
Looking at the quarter's results.
Compared to the same quarter in 2012 for the fourth quarter of 2013 consolidated revenue of $579 million was up 8% on a reported basis.
Adjusted operating revenue which excludes the impact of the collection of certain reserved 2012 billings was $571 million up 7% and up 8% on a constant currency basis when compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Operating margin was 26.6%.
Adjusted operating margin which excludes the collection of certain 2012 billings and the resource realignment charge was 27.4% up 190 basis points from last year's adjusted operating margin driven primarily by operating margin expansion Workforce Solutions and Personal Solutions and lower corporate expenses as a percent of revenue.
Diluted earnings per share attributable to Equifax was $0.62.
Excluding acquisition-related amortization and associated tax effects the collection of certain reserved 2012 billings the resource realignment charge and the impairment of our investment in Boa Vista adjusted EPS was $0.91 per share up 21% when compared to the adjusted EPS of $0.76 in the fourth quarter a year ago.
During the quarter management of Boa Vista or BVS our Brazilian affiliate in which we hold a 15% interest developed a plan to invest more aggressively in technology platforms and market-facing capabilities to capitalize on the long-term opportunities in Brazil at the same time reduced near-term market expectations for credit and as a result credit information services.
This caused management to take a more cautious view of near-term growth.
As a result of these changes in plans and expectations we wrote down our investment in BVS by $17 million.
As a noncash charge related to a nonconsolidated investment we have excluded this item from our calculation of adjusted earnings per share.
We continue however to be optimistic about the longer-term prospects for BVS in Brazil.
Moving to the individual business units.
U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $256 million.
Adjusted operating revenue was $248 million up 12%.
The acquisition of CSC which we call our Central Region contributed 11% growth.
And our core nonmortgage market organic growth including strategic initiatives contributed approximately 7% to growth while the decline in mortgage market volumes subtracted 6% from growth.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $170 million up 12%.
Excluding the Central Region revenue was down 1% driven by the anticipated slowdown in mortgage activity.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $24 million was down 1% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Excluding the acquisition of our Central Region Mortgage Solutions revenue was down 14% driven by the decline in mortgage activity partially offset by newer information in analytical products.
This compares favorably to the Mortgage Bankers Application Index which is down 51% in the fourth quarter.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $62 million.
Adjusted operating revenue excluding the collection of certain reserved 2012 billings was $54 million up 20% from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Organic growth was approximately 12%.
The operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 41.4%.
Adjusted operating margin was 39.7% down slightly from 39.8% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Excluding acquisition-related amortization adjusted margins have expanded nicely.
Our International business unit's revenue was $132 million up 6% on a reported basis and up 11% on a constant dollar basis.
By region Latin America's revenue was $50 million up 5% in U.S.
dollars and up 18% in local currency driven by solid double-digit growth in Technology and Analytical Services as well as Information Solutions and Marketing Services.
Europe's revenue was $50 million up 15% in U.S.
dollars and up 12% in local currency.
Good growth in financial institutions telco retail and small and medium enterprise along with strong double-digit growth in Personal Solutions all contributed to this strong performance.
Canada Consumer information revenue was $32 million down 5% in U.S.
dollars but up 1% in local currency.
Strength in Technology and Analytical Services revenue was partially offset by a weaker market for Marketing Services.
International's operating margin was 28.6% compared to 29.9% in 2012 continuing in the 28% to 30% range of the last 2 years as we continue to invest in growth and infrastructure.
Workforce Solutions revenue was $112 million for the quarter flat when compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Verification Services with revenue of $65 million was down 7% when compared to the same quarter a year ago.
Strong growth in card government and preemployment partially offset the 32% decline in mortgage-related revenues.
Employer Services revenue was $47 million up 12% compared to last year.
The Workforce Solutions operating margin was 28.9% compared to 22.6% in Q4 of 2012 driven by reduced acquisition amortization and improved operating efficiencies.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $53 million up 9%.
Solid growth in our U.S.-based subscription revenue and in Canada along with the acquisition of TrustedID were the drivers of this growth in Personal Solutions.
Operating margin was 30.7% compared to 28.2% in the fourth quarter of 2012 largely driven by lower acquisition expense partially offset by acquisition-related amortization from our acquisition of TrustedID.
North America Commercial Solutions revenue was $27 million down 3% on a reported basis and down 2% on local currency basis driven largely by softness in our U.S.
risk and marketing data services business segments more than offsetting growth in Canada.
The operating margin was 32.5% compared to 34.4% in the year ago quarter.
For the full year 2013 consolidated revenue of 12 -- $2.3 billion was up 11% on a reported and an unadjusted basis and up 12% on a constant currency basis.
The full year operating margin was 26.5% while adjusted operation -- operating margin was 26.7% up from 25.3% in 2012 driven by operating margin expansion of Workforce Solutions and Personal Solutions and lower corporate expenses as a percent of revenue.
Diluted earnings per share attributable to Equifax is $2.69 compared to $2.18 for 2012.
Excluding acquisition-related amortization and associated tax effects the collection of certain 2012 billings the resource realignment charge and the impairment of our investment in BVS adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations was $3.60 up 24% when compared to the adjusted earnings per share of $2.91 in 2012.
Finally last quarter we alerted you to a comment letter we received from the SEC regarding our accounting for goodwill and intangibles in the CSC acquisition.
During the quarter we continued communication with the SEC about indefinite-lived intangibles including those assets associated with prior affiliate acquisitions dating back to 2001 to 2005.
However the issue remains open and we continue to work to understand the SEC's point of view and resolve the matter.
Any changes to prior acquisition-related intangibles and associated amortization would be noncash adjustments and would not affect our adjusted earnings per share or cash flow.
Looking forward to 2014 we see a few items that will impact our financial results.
As Rick mentioned we recently completed 3 strategic acquisitions in International one of which closed in January.
These combined with TrustedID and Personal Solutions and an acquisition in Commercial will add nicely to our product and geographic ranges and will add 5% to 6% to our revenue growth in 2014.
We expect these acquisitions to be non-dilutive in their first year and accretive thereafter.
As you all -- second as you all recognized we expect the mortgage market to be a meaningful headwind due to the decline in mortgage volume since interest rates increased in mid-2013.
We expect mortgage originations to be down between 40% and 50% in the first half of 2014 compared to last year and then down a more modest 10% to 15% in the second half of the year.
This is very much in line with our views over the past year.
Finally as you have probably seen foreign exchange rates for many foreign countries including emerging markets have experienced significant volatility over the past few months.
Specifically foreign exchange rates for a number of countries where we compete have weakened versus the U.S.
dollar starting in December and accelerating in January.
We generally expect a certain amount of year-to-year change in foreign exchange rates but these movements have been more significant than changes we have typically seen in the last few years.
The 2 markets that will impact us the most are Argentina whose currency depreciation accelerated in December and then dropped 19% in the month of January from the month-end December and in Canada where weaker foreign demand for oil and minerals have weakened the Canadian dollar.
The impact of these foreign exchange movements are significant for us because these 2 countries are among our largest foreign operations and they have strong leadership positions with above-average margins.
Along with movements in select other currencies we expect foreign exchange rates in 2014 will negatively impact our reported revenue growth by approximately 2% and will impact our adjusted earnings per share by $0.05 to $0.07 per share more than we had previously expected.
Because the impact of those 3 factors acquisitions the mortgage market headwind and foreign exchange is not uniform throughout the year particularly as regards mortgage we will provide a more detailed view of 2014 than we have in past years.
For the full year we continue to expect core organic nonmortgage market growth in our target range of 6% to 8%.
Acquisitions should add 5% to 6% growth while mortgage on average for the year will reduce growth by about 4% and foreign exchange will reduce growth by about 2% based on our current expectations.
We expect this will result in constant dollar revenue growth approaching 8% to 10% and reported revenue between $2 425 000 000 and $2 475 000 000.
For the first half core revenue growth will also be 6% to 8% while the mortgage impact will reduce growth by about 6 percentage points given that higher market decline we expect in the first half versus the second half until we anniversary last year's interest rate increases at midyear.
Acquisitions are expected to add 5 to 6 percentage points of revenue growth and foreign exchange will subtract about 2% yielding 3% to 5% growth for the first half.
In the first quarter the mortgage impact will be slightly greater about 7% negative and at the peak impact for the year while the acquisition benefit will be slightly less in the range of 4% to 5% as we will have less than a full quarter of acquisition benefit on 2 of the acquisitions.
As a result we expect reported revenue for the first quarter to be between $575 million and $588 million.
For the second half again we expect core growth of 6% to 8% but only 1% to 2% negative impact from mortgage.
Acquisitions should add 5% to 6% growth and foreign exchange is expected to subtract 2% from growth leading to an 8% to 10% total revenue growth for the second half.
With regard to profitability as I noted earlier the acquisitions will be non-dilutive in 2014 which means the revenue growth will not contribute appreciably to EPS growth until 2015.
Operating margins will decline slightly due to certain first year integration expense in acquisition and amortization although operating margins excluding the acquisitions will increase consistent with our long-term operating model.
Our tax rate is also expected to increase from 35.6% in 2013 to between 36% and 37% in 2014.
As a result of these forces adjusted EPS is expected to grow between 4% and 8% from 2013 to $3.75 to $3.89.
Adjusted EPS may be down slightly to flat in the first 2 quarters when the integration expenses and the seasonal pattern of revenue in the acquired businesses will cause the acquisitions to be slightly dilutive.
Then up single -- high single digits to mid-teens in the second half as the impact of the mortgage market diminishes and the acquisitions begin adding to earnings per share.
We don't normally look beyond 1 year in our public comments but it's important for me to put this in context.
In 2012 we had a great year driven by 7% core growth and a strong mortgage market yielding double-digit revenue growth and 18% growth in adjusted EPS.
In 2013 we had an even better year driven by another year of 7%-plus core growth and the benefit of the CSC acquisition yielding 11% revenue growth and 24% growth in adjusted EPS.
In 2014 we expect another year of core growth solidly in our target range.
But with the mortgage and foreign exchange headwinds we expect 2014 to be a little below our long-term target performance.
However our 3-year cumulative performance will be well above our long-term goals.
Importantly as we look to 2015 our long-term business and financial model is clearly intact.
We will continue to target 6% to 8% core growth and have shown the ability to add to that through intelligent strategic acquisitions.
Early forecasts for the mortgage markets suggest that mortgage origination activity will return to growth in 2015 adding to our total reported growth.
Our recently completed acquisitions should also become accretive.
And if we only pursued a normalized level of acquisition activity during 2014 share repurchase during the year will lead to a decline in shares going in [ph] 2015 adding further to EPS growth.
As you can see while short-term factors may cause our results to vary from our longer-term targets in individual years the underlying dynamics of our business and our management's ability to deliver against core growth and margin improvement objectives makes our business an attractive one with continued good prospects.
Let me turn it back to Rick.
Thanks Lee.
And we started 45 minutes ago talking about a number of moving parts and it was our intent to provide you with a new level of transparency and insight to 2013 2014 and as Lee also gave us an insight into 2015 so hopefully you felt we met that expectation.
So let me summarize before we go to Q&amp;A.
Despite the headwind in 2013 our strategy and execution delivered an impressive broad-based performance and the business model continues to be sound and the strategy we've been executing against continues to offer attractive growth opportunities.
The road map that Lee just gave you details the transitional nature of 2014.
We fully expect to exit this year with very good momentum positioning us for stronger performance as we enter 2015.
Given our outlook for 2014 we have increased our dividend 14% to $1 per share per year.
This represents what we expect to be a payout ratio at the upper end of the board's policy which if you'll recall is 25% to 30% of our net income going back in the form of a dividend.
So in summary for 2014 core organic nonmortgage growth of 6% to 8% remains solid and within the model we've given you over the past few years.
The mortgage market performance will be as we anticipated and as we've communicated to you in the past year.
Foreign exchange is a headwind this year but should abate as the world economies stabilize in the future.
And we should move up to an 8% to 10% revenue growth range in the back half of 2014.
And we should be aided by the mortgage market returning to growth latter part of this year and into 2015.
So with that operator we'd like to open it up for some questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take your first question from George Mihalos from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just looking to reconcile some items.
You called out a 32% decline in mortgage-related revenue for Workforce Solutions.
For mortgage-related revenue Mortgage Solutions was down about 14%.
Why wouldn't we see those 2 numbers kind of converge a little bit more? Why is Mortgage Solutions sort of outperforming Workforce there? I'll jump in then Lee can give you some details George.
It's a couple things one is the 1% in USCIS then moved to 14% was for mortgage reported revenue so it's 1% including CSC.
If you exclude CSC it's the 14% that you alluded to.
That's just mortgage reporting that's online.
There's other mortgage-related revenue streams that were not captured in the 1% or the 14% that's number one.
Number two as we always say there's some timing differences between EWS and USCIS.
Number three we've been at the differentiated products in mortgage longer in USCIS things like UDM and others than we have in EWS.
So we don't break that detail up.
But if you were to normalize it you'd probably find USCIS total mortgage when you exclude CSC is closer to that of what you saw in EWS.
Yes and just George I would add that pure tri-merge activity within mortgage services was down in the low to mid-20s.
And the difference between that and the 14% organic was some of the newer information analytic-based products that we sell into the mortgage market that are actually still gaining traction and increasing share even in a declining market.
So just the pure market activity effects are a lot more similar than the headline numbers would make it appear.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great color.
And then just sort of moving on if you can sort of update us as to your expectations around the CMS contract for 2014 and maybe how you're thinking about it beyond.
Yes we're still very optimistic.
Long term this is going to be a great revenue generator for EWS and for Equifax.
You've seen and read about all the trials and tribulations that the Affordable Care Act has had in rolling it out.
There are a number of things that Dan and his team are trying to do now to help the CMS get to a greater coverage.
We call it Tier 2.
We continue to get very excited about the analytics that eThority is bringing to the table.
So it's not a huge number that we're anticipating in 2014.
It'll be bigger than 2013.
I'm hopeful as we exit 2014 this thing starts to click in 2015 and deliver some really really good revenue for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just the last question for me.
I know you called out acquisitions in aggregate but can you comment a little bit more on the contribution from the TDX acquisition? I know it was $90 million in '13.
Is that going to be somewhere around $100 million of revenue contribution for '14? Yes that's a reasonable estimate.
We'll take your next question from Andre Benjamin from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first question what is the magnitude of incremental revenue opportunities specific to some of the new verification products that you rolled out in the auto vertical? And do you have any more products in the works there or you're pretty much done? Are there some other verticals that you see as low-hanging fruit or good near-term opportunities? Thanks Andre.
Now the verification opportunities in the auto D360 solutions we just launched you should think of those as being incremental margin very much like the rest of the work very very high margin.
And as I alluded to D360 in general terms I can't remember the number now but we have double-digit pipeline of D360 that we'll be launching in 2014.
So that robustness of NPI -- new revenue from NPI and Verification Services and beyond will continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the North America Commercial Solutions segment in terms of the small medium businesses talk a little bit about what the competitive dynamics you're seeing there what's your current level of commitment and investment to that segment versus some of the others that you talk a little bit more about and maybe where some of the successes gaining share are versus not.
Yes good questions.
We're as committed to Commercial as we are any other business.
We don't talk about it as much because it's a smaller business Andre as yet.
But we continue to invest.
We have mentioned an acquisition small tuck-in acquisition we just made for Commercial.
We invest in platforms we invest in new products we invest in people.
So it's a market that's always going to be there.
It's going to go through cycles like the consumer pieces but I think it's important for us as a business to continue to build out a sizable successful commercial business to augment what we do on the Consumer side.
We'll move next to Paul Ginocchio from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a question about Brazil.
It looks like the charge is about 27% of the book value.
It seems pretty significant.
Has it been a marked slowdown to start the year in Brazil? Or is it more just about the reorg and the investment opportunity you need or the investment you're making to capture the opportunity there? Sure Paul.
It's both.
The only caveat I'd give to your question was it's not just the recent slowdown.
If you look back the last couple years the GDP has slowed the use or the demand of credit products has slowed.
If you follow experience historical growth patterns in Brazil that's a good proxy for what the market sees.
We obviously don't disclose that level of detail because we don't consolidate Brazil but there's no doubt that the U.S.
-- or the Brazilian economy has slowed.
Secondly we are investing as you noted and we've talked about now for a number of years in 2 -- 3 very important areas.
One is integrating the core platforms in which we operate which is important to do.
It simplifies and shortens your time to market for new products.
That's a heavier investment than we anticipated early on.
We're also investing in positive data capabilities in IT.
That's still maybe multiple years away but it's important we invest now so that when the country embraces positive data we're in a position to jump on that.
And third is we'll continue to invest in sales people sales processes.
I was just down there with Paulino late last year; we are still committed to Brazil.
I think it's a place we've got to keep our pulse on and stay actively engaged.
I believe in what Boa Vista is doing combined with TMG and our leadership.
So while it was a write-down a noncash write-down for the fourth quarter we're still committed short term and long term in Brazil.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate it.
And maybe just a little quick one.
Has been an even further slowdown into the first quarter? I don't have any data on the first quarter this time.
I think if you look throughout 2013 you'd see the year continue to slide throughout the year in Brazil.
Moving on to Andrew Jeffrey from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to catch my breath after that.
Rick lots of moving pieces.
Can I just have you summarize if you look at the business from 30 000 feet when you look to '14 versus say where we were a year ago core business noise notwithstanding better worse the same as far as the growth and profitability profile of Equifax compared to 12 months ago? I'd say better for these reasons: So the core business the core organic nongrowth business is as solid today as it was a year ago.
And I think we'd all agree last year was just a great year building on a great year in 2012.
And 2014 and 2015 will be solid.
It is better for this reason.
TDX is a strategic acquisition that gives us capabilities that we didn't have before.
It will start to monetize I think in very meaningful ways at the back end of this year and into 2015.
They connect capabilities to new geographies existing customers in new geographies I'm very hopeful that that is going to bode very well for us long term.
The other point I'd make is we get smarter and smarter every day in this verticalization and enterprise selling that we're doing through USCIS.
Andrew I know you know this but we've taken the commercial products we've taken the verification deployment products verification income products and all the products we had to bear to our core customers in the U.S.
and differentiating our offering from anyone else.
So we've been at that a couple of years.
Each and every day goes by that gets better and better.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if TDX is your call-out in terms of incremental excitement in '14 when you look at the core business beyond the acquisitions what are the things about which you're the most enthusiastic? I just think the execution the team has delivered now for 4 or 5 years in a row continues to hum such things like NPI.
If the verticalization that we have if you've seen some of the leases we've had for example in auto that is a true differentiator that no one else has done.
We get smarter and smarter.
In other words we get domain expertise in each of these verticals and that in itself isn't a solution.
Anybody could do that.
It's taking that vertical expertise with the unique data assets we have to accelerate growth and with that obviously the D360 is another thing that really excites me this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So auto has been a pretty important share driver for you.
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Lee just a couple of housekeeping questions if I may.
What do you anticipate the net acquisition-related weighted amortization to be this year? Andrew I don't have that off the top of my head.
I would have -- we'd have get back to you on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Suffice to say it's up? It's a significant number yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And as far as the tax rate is concerned you called out the FX headwinds.
You called out the mortgage headwinds.
Do you have a sense of what the higher tax rate is costing you just in terms of reported earnings? Yes that's actually a couple of cents a share.
I mean if you take from 35.6% call it to the midpoint of the 36% 37% 0.9 point on $500 million to $600 million of pretax you're talking $0.03 $0.04 a share.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally puts and takes notwithstanding again and this may be more of a question directionally as we look to '15 is there still some operating leverage left in the business? I mean I guess I'm thinking more about EBITDA because of all the intangibles amortization now.
Yes it's a great question because it'll get muddied through the acquisitions in 2014 even on the EBITDA line as well because of some initial expenses we incur as we integrate companies.
But both on an operating margin basis and what I'd call cash margin it's not EBITDA margin but cash margin the way I look at it would be operating profit adding back just the acquisition amortization.
Both of those measures will get better on our core business in 2014 if you take out the acquisitions.
So the underlying model remains intact.
And then as we have some experience with those new businesses we will expect those partly through expense management but a lot of it from revenue leverage given the growth prospects of those businesses those will start contributing to widening.
So yes I think the margin model is intact.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move next to Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Can I just ask on the margin side I think you said for the full year it's going to be flat to slightly down.
Are there any specific within the segments that you'd need to call out in terms of any directional moves that will be different than what we've expected in the past? Let me jump in with a general.
We always do give some more color.
It's largely being driven by the fact that you've got some acquisitions coming on with increased revenue and in the first year not adding a lot of profit.
We call that as being nondilutive so that's putting a little bit of margin pressure.
The fundamentals of each of the 5 business units from a margin perspective are largely intact.
You have slight movement quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year for each of the business units.
But at the company level most of it's being driven by adding the revenue we're getting from TDX and Inffinix without adding profit to the bottom line.
Lee anyone else you'd add? Yes Manav I think the key place you'll see some downward margin movement and it's because of the acquisitions is going to be International.
That's where the bulk of the acquisitions have occurred.
And you'll see that affect International margins by a couple hundred basis points.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just sort of big picture Rick.
I think you mentioned I guess it was 47 new products this year.
I think in the past you've been in the mid-60s range not that that number sort of means a lot from a year-over-year perspective.
But just on your NPI targets 10% I think was your range.
Just your comfort level with all the good work that you've been highlighting.
Is that becoming a conservative target? Or do you still stick around in that 10%? I still think the 10% makes sense.
Let me allude -- I'll give you some more color in a second.
The 47 I'd mentioned in my opening comments one of the things we had done is kind of re-energize and we've done this a couple of times now with NPI -- with a focus on NPI.
One of the things we decided to do very intentionally in 2013 is focus on a fewer larger products.
We've traditionally been in the 65 to 70 products per year so our goal is to reduce that.
We didn't target 47 specifically but a reduction in larger more meaningful price and that's what you saw last year.
Revenue was up 18% year-on-year from NPI.
So extremely healthy year.
And long term yes I still see a Vitality Index of 10% is kind of the right range for us.
You're going to have ebbs and flows as you sunset large classes 1 year.
Maybe the next year you don't have large classes you sunset so you'll be above the 10%.
Yes I think 6 7 8 years into NPI that 10% number still makes sense.
And it becomes 10% of a larger number as you might guess obviously.
Research Division</strong> Yes correct.
Fair enough.
And then just one last one.
I was just wondering on the PSol side you obviously have some headwinds out there with the data breaches and all those sorts of issues.
But I was just curious on is there a potential tailwind now that a lot of these banks are giving the FICO score for free and then you get your free credit report? Does the combination of the 2 maybe have any impact on your underlying PSol business? Yes Manav I think that's a great observation.
I think the growth -- likely growth expectation for PSol probably is moderating which helps us a little bit as you see more breaches out there.
But you're right the banks -- number one the banks are under some pressure relative to the way they sell add-on products to their customers as a result of the way the regulators view any kind of cross-selling activities.
And you're seeing an increased presence in the marketplace of some free models which are based on lead generation for other products.
So I think you might see a little bit more moderate growth in our PSol business over the coming year.
The flip side Manav which you don't really have the benefit of seeing but we do is the PSol business is gaining traction accelerating at a faster growth rate outside the U.S.
So the things that we're doing taking PSol and all the great tools and capabilities that Trey has built again to Canada U.K.
now Latin America helps.
And we're at the early days of really understanding what we can do and how far we can take TrustedID with a lot of capabilities for our partners which as you know is new to us as well.
We'll hear next from David Togut from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> This is Mike Landau in for David.
Can you talk a little bit about the competitive landscape that TDX would participate in when you bring the product to North America and maybe quantify the opportunity in that region? Yes Mike you should know this that one we did a very -- one let me back up.
My comments kind of alluded to this.
We had been working with TDX for about 2 years just really to get to know their culture their people their management their pipeline their capabilities.
We did very thorough studies brought consultants in to help us understand their uniqueness versus competition in the current footprint in U.K.
Spain and Australia as well as their uniqueness in countries where they were not places like Canada and U.S.
is 2 obvious ones.
The second point I'll make there on TDX is we did not contemplate any acquisition or justification of the purchase price TDX coming to the U.S.
or Canada at this juncture.
There's enough growth short term in the next couple years to grow nicely in the current footprint.
We will very systematically think through the launch plan.
In fact I've chartered Paulino and Rudy Ploder with putting that launch plan in place by the end of this year so we can really understand all the nuances of who's in the U.S.
who's in Canada and how you systematically make this thing work in those 2 countries but the business has to stand on its own merits in the current geographical footprint.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I know you had a quick comment on acquisition-related amortization expense.
Would you have an idea of the impact of just TDX to that number? Yes.
I'm sorry I do not have that with me.
Moving on to Jeff Meuler from Baird.
Research Division</strong> Actually a follow-up on the NPI and Vitality Index.
Rick should we think about -- looking back over the last couple of years is this -- is the Vitality Index kind of the accumulation of a lot of singles and doubles? Or are there any triples and home runs that you guys have hit that you can discuss? Yes it's great.
I kind of think about home runs as transformational from a revenue respective.
If that's how you define it which is how I do define it those are few and far between.
I think I've got a lot more singles and a lot more doubles financially.
However what you can find is there are some things that disrupt the marketplace that over time will allow you to get additional revenue streams from add-on products if you will.
So trying to chase the home runs I think is a bit of a gamble.
That's why you see us in the range of 47 products last year up to I think our high ever was maybe 70-something.
If there were home runs you'd find these being in 5 10 15 kind of products.
So that's a big risk.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Key Client Program it seems like you continue to add clients 1 2 at a time.
It's still a relatively small number.
It seems like it's going well.
I guess just why not roll it out faster? Is it just that you need to add headcount to that organization? Or is it that there's only call it 10 to 20 potential accounts that could get slotted into there? Good question probably requires some clarification.
Think about KCP under the same banner as verticalization.
It is no different.
So I go back I think it was 2007 or so in the recession we were looking at the banking sector and said "What might the banking sector look like postrecession versus pre the emergence of 4 very large powerful banks seemed inevitable.
I wasn't confident in our positioning with all 4 of those banks at that time so we created KCP at that time.
We then added on larger more strategic accounts 2 examples I just talked about that is now 8.
But beyond the KCP accounts we've got vertical focus now in mortgage.
We've got vertical focus in auto we have vertical focus in telco probably missing a few more as well.
Retail banking.
So verticalization in total of which KCP is one element has really transformed our go-to-market approach over the past 6 years.
And KCP is one piece of that and that's working very well.
By the way if I can tag a completely unrelated comment on to that.
I've had -- we've had 2 questions about acquisition-related amortization.
I've been shuffling through my papers here and I would tell you that the acquisition -- in total acquisition-related amortization looks like we'll be up around $15 million to $18 million year-over-year.
Again the biggest impact will be in our International business.
That $15 million to $18 million is actually a net number because we'll be down some and we'll see some benefit in Workforce Solutions as we complete the amortization of certain assets from prior deals but the net for the company will be up $15 million to $18 million.
We'll move on to Shlomo Rosenbaum from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to focus a little bit more about the demand in the core markets.
You're seeing Consumer Financial Marketing has had very good growth for the last 3 quarters.
Is this -- are you guys working out kind of the concerns that the banks had in terms of using the IXI data? Or is it really that you're seeing good pickup in the core kind of marketing for -- to consumers within various aspects of the business that's much more related to what I would say kind of the core business? Yes I think it's a combination of both Shlomo.
We have new leadership in IXI.
That combined with our legal team really working with customers understand what the regulation really means it doesn't mean it has helped.
You're also seeing the prescreen business continue to increase.
That entire Bancard business is up 8% to 10% per year which is low so well below the prerecession highs of pre-2009.
But yes we're clearly getting market base momentum market share gains and improvement in IXI.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So if I wanted to isolate the market share gains that you guys are doing over there would you say that we're starting to see the banks excluding the auto that everybody's talked about just on the credit card thing are they loosening up the credit standards? Or is it a matter that you guys are able to go ahead and help them dice the market better because of your analytics and unique data and therefore you're getting better growth there? It's a combination of both.
For example there's no doubt that the banks are getting a little more aggressive in their lending standards.
For example if they're going to be more aggressive in auto go down the store chain they're requiring a larger down payment or deposit upfront.
So they're all looking for ways to grow in a reasonable risk base and our ability to help them make those decisions with our Decision 360 helps us differentiate and gain share.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just in commercial can you just give us a little bit more detail? You had 3 really solid quarters and then a quarter where things dropped down.
I know that things kind of bump around.
Is it really project-related revenue timing? Or is there anything changing underlying in that market? It's -- I don't think there's any underlying.
It's so small and this is not in a derogatory sense.
It's a small business Shlomo so going from -- I don't have the math in front of me -- going from I think it was negative 3% in the fourth quarter deposit at 10%.
It is a small swing in total dollars.
So you could have nuances and movement quarter-to-quarter.
I pay more attention to the long-term trajectory of the business and I still remain committed that that is a growth business for us and it did grow 7% yes in 2013.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then in light of what you're seeing in PSol can you give us more long-term expectations? Have you -- the revision that you guys have in your own mind in terms of what to expect of growth over there over the multiple years.
Yes I can't remember the growth model we provided for PSol long term.
Upper single digits.
Long term with a margin profile of x? The margin profile mid to upper 20s.
So I think Shlomo that long-term model still exists.
Even though there may be some pressure and you've seen PSol growing at the upper end outside that range for a number of quarters if not years you're seeing some moderate slowdown and we expect that to continue.
The regulatory environment is unknown.
So our challenge is to find ways to continue to innovate take trusted ideas in levels.
And I still think we're in that long-term model we told you guys a number of years ago upper single digits in the margin profile that we talked about.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
There's really -- it's just a bit of coming from maybe above that range to just within that range.
That's all we're talking about here? That's a great way to think about it.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move next to Bill Warmington from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Rick I had a question for you.
You've thrown out the Vitality Index being 14% of revenue for International.
Did you give that also for the company as a whole? I did not.
I think what I talked about was the entire revenue was up about 18% year-on-year.
I think the Vitality index is around 9% if I remember right Bill.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay about 9% currently okay.
Yes for 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Lee the CSC had provided some pretty healthy revenue and margin benefits in 2013.
Can it continue to help performance in 2014? Is there more juice in the lemon so to speak? Well I think that we've captured most of the margin benefit the first quarter will still be advantageous year-over-year because we had some initial expenses in integrating CSC in the first quarter last year.
The -- now I think we're into the steady process within USCIS of driving a little bit of growth every quarter and getting them to perform fully at the levels that we think is possible.
That's much more of a steady year-by-year effort.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I wanted to ask about the collections market today in terms of what's the opportunity there for Equifax.
It's a place where you've been making investments Inffinix TDX.
I've always thought of it as being a fairly mature market.
I mean some people call it the second oldest profession so...
That's good Bill.
Think about it this way.
It's servicing our -- one we're in collections today and I think you know that we do collections in many geographies around the world.
It's an important offering we must have for our customers; two think about TDX is kind of a SaaS model which is really our sweet spot that's what we do.
Think about it as Analytics and Technology platforms as right what we do today.
So they are a very very powerful player in the U.K.
having great early successes in places like Spain.
So I am confident we can bring that capability with our bigger pipes.
We've got far bigger distribution network than they do growing their capabilities for our current customers and new customers in a model that's very financially friendly to us SaaS model.
And think about Inffinix as a little different.
If you know our vernacular you find TDX more akin to InterConnect.
It's sophisticated it's upper end in its capabilities.
That's TDX.
If you think of a decisioning platform we have across Central and South America Experto it really fits those market needs.
Inffinix is more like an Experto for us so it's the same concept there.
They're good really in Mexico plus a few other countries.
We've got the largest footprint in Central and South America.
We can bring their product through our pipeline to our customers and add value.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And now last question was helping banks comply with regulation as a revenue driver getting better weaker flat? Early stages but hopeful and I think if we are -- as an industry including banks long term going to successfully navigate the regulatory environment we're going to have to do it as partners.
And that's our intent was to reach out proactively to some of the larger banks out there last year and proactively help them because if we can help them become more compliant on data accuracy as an example that helps us.
So early stages.
Brett Huff from Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One is on the restructuring you haven't talked much about that.
Can you give us a sense of where the restructuring happened? And I'm less concerned about the current period costs and I'm more interested in what are the benefits in terms of better margins? Will we see them -- where will we see them? And when will we see that? Yes.
I'll take a crack at it and Lee I don't know if you would please.
One in the scheme of things the size of restructuring we took is relatively de minimis.
We take restructurings and repositionings very very seriously because it impacts people's and families' lives.
But the economic environment in which we operate isn't static.
It's very dynamic.
The opportunities you may have in one part of the world are not static it's dynamic.
So our challenge as leaders is to always make sure we are reallocating repositioning our human capital resources and financial resources in order to get the best return.
So it was nothing more than that and taking some areas that were offered lower growth and in cutting back expenses there and repositioning to higher growth areas.
So that is a normal process in my 8.5 years here that we have done so many times over the 8.5 years.
This is a little bit more meaningful and as we called it out as a non-GAAP item.
As far as margin impact Lee? Yes.
I mean I think the other thing to about think our margins is that we continue to expect to grow our staffing over the course of this year.
It will be at a modest rate and in line with a recognition of where our revenue for the year is going to grow.
So this really is much more about realigning resources to where the best opportunities are.
It helps us accommodate the softer revenue we'll see in the first half of the year.
But for the year as a whole you take our revenue growth subtract a couple percentage points that has to go to salary increases merit increases.
That's going to give you just about what our headcount growth will be.
And that's kind of consistent with the [indiscernible] model.
So it's not really a margin-driving action so much as staying focused on where the returns are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question is -- and people have asked a little bit about NPI already.
But can you just give us a sense -- you've been added I think you said 6 or 8 years with a very systematic way of hitting singles and doubles and hopefully getting some triples in there too.
What -- as you guys look forward how much of NPI is going to come from sort of brand-new data sets versus analytics or add-on products for existing data sets so we have a better idea of kind of what -- how proprietary some of those NPI revenues are? That's an interesting way to ask.
As you think about product I'd say this.
If you think of a continuum I think the next 3 years the greater NPI growth comes from mining the current unique data assets we have around the world more fully.
There's a lot of juice as someone had mentioned earlier on a comment an earlier comment about juice left and a lot of juice left in just mining the current data by taking those unique data assets to new verticals with unique data with unique domain expertise.
The auto example is a prime example.
We've had the wealth data -- or the employment data.
We've had the income data.
We've had all those data assets now for a few years.
But getting domain expertise in the verticals to focus on that and bring those through to deliver new products is an example.
I think there's more opportunity over the next 3 years.
We'll always go out looking for the next unique data asset.
We've got a lot more we can still do and mine what we have today.
We'll hear next from Andrew Steinerman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could make a comment about credit card applications.
Rick I definitely heard you talk about prescreening up in the quarter.
Do you think that was just sort of Christmas holiday related? What's your sense of credit card application as we're going into 2014? Often it's a very big driver for you but it hasn't for a while.
Yes I'd say it this way Andrew.
Since the lows the trough of the recession you're steadily seeing that increase in the last couple years anyways the upper single-digit range and we expect that to continue.
But still I think I mentioned before 39% 38% below the prerecession peak.
So nowhere close to what we were before the recession but I expect it to continue in 2014 and up.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And you're not just talking about the prescreen you're just talking about the follow-through where you get the application you get the consumer credit report as well right? Yes and I got to be -- the answer's yes but I have not actually tracked the linkages we've done in the past between prescreen and credit file pool.
I don't have that number off the top of my head.
If you remember there was a very strong correlation prerecession.
I think it was 30- to 45-day lag between prescreen and credit file pool.
That lag was impacted dramatically during the recession.
I can't tell you exactly where it is today but eventually yes prescreen leasing pools were up.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So it sounds like moderate recovery.
Yes.
Thank you.
And operator I think that's about it.
We're about 1/2 hour over our normal time unless you have one more question that has to be asked from the phone.
And at this time there are no further questions in the queue.
Mr.
Dodge I'd like to turn the conference back over to you for any closing remarks.
Okay.
I want to thank everybody for their time and their interest in Equifax.
And I think with that we'll conclude the call.
Thank you everybody.
Again that does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the quarter one 2014 Equifax earnings release call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations and with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Lee Adrean Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our businesses are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2013 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measure including adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax that will be adjusted for certain items which effect the comparability of the underlining operation performance.
Adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and the associated tax effects.
This measure was detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Also please refer to our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section under the About Equifax tab on the website for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
As I always do I’ll start off with a couple of high-level comments on how the company performed in the first quarter.
I'll then gravitate towards some details at the business unit level and then come back to the corporate level and give you an update on a couple of key initiatives company wide and Lee will go through his detailed financials and we’ll come back and look at the second quarter the balance of the year and then we’ll do some Q&amp;A.
Our first quarter performance in our opinion was solid.
We came in a little bitter than we had initial expected all the business units continued their strong execution of their strategic initiatives and that will enable us to offset both the mortgage and the currency headwinds which we described here during our last quarter call for the fourth quarter.
For the first quarter revenue was up 3% to $585 million on a reported basis about 5% on local currency basis versus the first quarter 2013.
The strategic acquisitions which we recently completed are enabling us to further leverage our core business assets and drive new sources of growth.
Early stage integrations are off to a good start and we are optimistic that all the acquisitions we made late fourth quarter and the first quarter will bode well for us going forward.
For the quarter our core non-mortgage market growth rate was 7% solidly in the range we had targeted about 6% to 8%.
Operating margin was 26% down slightly from 26.3% a year ago and our adjusted EPS was $0.89 up from $0.87 last year.
Our U.S.
now are going to the individual business units starting with USCIS.
They delivered another solid quarter with strong execution.
Their initiatives are consistent with our expectations.
USCIS core non-mortgage market organic growth for the quarter was a solid 6%.
They are continuing to leverage innovations to develop and deliver unique insights to the customers through partnerships and multi-product offerings that leverage our unique capabilities.
I’ll give you a few examples there.
First is we’ve announced recently the partnerships with IHS you remember HIS versus Polk last year.
So we announced this partnership we’re going to develop product offering for one of our focus verticals we talked to you about and that’s automotive.
Our first product is lost sales analysis for lenders which helps them understand an actual situations where they lost good opportunities to competitors and helped them build a strategy to not loose those in the future.
Off to a great start automotive is a great growth vehicle for us going forward.
Another example we’ve have identified a number of opportunities for integrating multiple data assets along with some of our proprietary analytics to develop what we call ‘super scores’ that enable our customers to make better decisions on higher risk opportunities about something they would normally pass on and they now able to underwrite those risks.
The market interest is increasing nicely and our customers are increasingly focused on growing their running portfolios.
We talked about Mobile Commerce.
We’ve got a great initiative a partner called Jumio.
They are a next-generation payments and ID company to help our customers maximize their opportunity with Mobile Commerce while reducing fraud and streamlining mobile payments; really exciting early state opportunity.
In the mortgage space we continue to bundle undisclosed debt monitoring which we’ve talked to you about our 4506-T product verification of employment verification of income and bundle all those products to a very unique decision platform which we have in a mortgage market and these solutions are allowing us to increase our market penetration and to drive growth.
This continues innovation in this large market has enabled us to mitigate the impact of the market decline while positioning us to accelerate faster when the market conditions improve.
We’ve seen the MBA data for the quarter; we’ve seen how we’ve outperformed the MBA.
We’ll talk about that in the Q&amp;A as well and that’s largely driven by our unique offerings in our new decision platform.
In Fraud and ID Management we’ve made significant progress particularly in the government sector.
We are providing identity authentication for selected IRS portals in support of the strategic goals for reducing fraud improving service extending processes and improving efficiencies.
We are also undertaking projects for health and human services leveraging our proactive fraud solutions products and we continue to sign new accounts in the state agency market with our identity proofing services.
International; its a critical long term growth early for us and in the first quarter they performed well.
Retained a little over 24% constant dollar growth driven by solid organic growth in addition to contributions from their recent acquisitions.
In the midst of integrating TDX you recall quite a few hits recently and we are aggressively working on a plan not only to integrate them but to take their capabilities and solutions to countries outside their current footprint.
They are predominately if you recall U.K.
based company we saw our operations in Spain and Australia.
We have high hopes that this is going to have a fit in places like Canada Argentina Brazil and the U.S.
and teams are working diligently to lay those plans out for execution later on this year.
We now have InterConnect implemented in five additional countries with a sales pipeline extended into six other countries.
InterConnect ultimately enable us to deliver Decision 360 products in these counties and most importantly as you know we’ll get these decision platforms ingrained into our good customers our stake in this goes up significantly.
In our non-consolidated investments overseas both Russia and India are exceeding our expectations.
We also made very good progress with our Brazilian partners and expect solid growth with them in 2014 and beyond.
Following an outstanding performance in 2013 Workforce Solutions delivered core non-mortgage market organic growth of 10% in the first quarter another outstanding quarter for Workforce Solutions.
They continue to deepen our penetration of many of our existing served markets while broadening the markets they serve with unique high value products.
For the first time in a long time home equity lending is up dramatically and the need for employment and income verification services provides new growth opportunities for us.
We are at the very early stages of home equity lending coming back and late in the first quarter we started seeing the benefit of that.
We expect that to continue throughout the balance of the year.
One of Workforce Solutions newest offerings is getting very good attraction.
The solution offering the ACA Management Platform provides customers with automated dashboards that enable them to evaluate track and report their compliance with the Affordable Care Act.
If you recall few years ago we acquired eThority which is a major analytics company.
We leveraged that capability to help our customers employers be sure they are complying with the Affordable Care Act.
We have now signed up more than 100 major organizations with this platform to ensure they are compliant; exciting for those guys.
In another way we bring analytics to every part of our company now including EWS.
We are also making good progress on our targets on the Work Number database.
We now have almost 3 400 companies contributing their Work Number records up 7% from year-end.
Our records are now exceeding 240 million in our database and we are well on our way to reaching our short term goal which we’ll talk to you about of 250 million total records and 7 million active records will soon come back with a new base line for your larger target going forward and any other implications of that.
Finally our contract with CMS Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services was renewed for another year.
If you recall we signed the contract a year ago.
It was a one-year contract with one-year renewals they have come back and have renewed it.
We could talk about that in the Q&amp;A session as well but getting off to a good start there.
Personal Solutions continue to make good progress with the integration of TrustedID while continuing to execute at a high level on the strategic initiatives.
TrustedID has been successful in opening up new growth opportunities for PSOL in indirect market and providing us with opportunities to redirect our resources to better address the change in the competitive landscape.
In fact I think as we look forward to the next one two three four years of indirect market we’ll be in fact the significant growth driver within PSOL.
And PSOL on the core business they kind of tweak their business model to address the inroads being made by free scores free services marketing expenditures in that core business have been reduced a bit which is resulting in over time higher profits and slightly lower growth we talked to you about last quarter that combined a great combination with indirect and direct.
Finally North American commercial solutions began the integration of Forseva whose decisions platform enable us to deliver high value decision solutions to small business information market.
High single digit growth in transaction revenues for the quarter were largely offset by a decline in the project-oriented revenues.
You know the project revenue can be lumpy but the good news is we are seeing the transaction revenue growing which is a good sign.
A couple of quite highlights for the company now.
As you all know successfully executing on all of our enterprise wide initiatives in a critical comparative to us.
The management’s discipline that underpin our ability to execute a high level and ingrained almost every time we give you a couple of examples.
As you know seven years ago we launched NPI New Product Innovation Program.
We’ve had great success over the seven years.
In fact 2013 represented our largest revenue contribution from products over the previous three years.
At this juncture with seven years into it and to keep it fresh we have launched a new program called NPI 2.0 which is really to reinvigorate NPI innovation across the enterprise to again like four five years of great runway from NPI.
We launched that earlier this year it’s off to a great start.
LEAN continues to be an important part of our DNA.
Its delivering significant benefits internally which we talked about but also externally with our customers who engaged us to help them operate more efficiently and more effective another way to differentiate ourselves from the competition.
As we enter 2014 I expected the first quarter to be the most challenging quarter we’ve faced due to the fact we had mortgage headwinds.
The sluggish economy that’s weather and FX.
It was a difficult environment but in that environment this team brought a very very solid performance and as I looked at the balance of the year we started to see signs of strengthened economies around the global in which we operate.
We are seeing that the mortgage headwinds will start to abate towards the end of this quarter improve a little bit in the third quarter and with wins back in the fourth quarter.
We continue to executive at very high level on our innovation.
The things that we’re doing on vertical focus is really making a difference and I can tell you I’ve seen more share gains and wins in the market place in these key verticals with the Decision 360 platform than I have seen since we’ve launched Decision 360 a number of years ago.
So I believe right now we are saying with the convergence of all these good things it will position us very well towards the balance of 2014 and into 2015.
So with that Lee.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
This morning I'll be referring to the financial results from continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
Our first quarter performance was solid in the phase of the challenging mortgage headwinds which we anticipated.
As we indicated during our fourth quarter release those headwinds will continue into the second quarter and moderate substantially in the second half.
Our full year outlook has not changed.
Let me turn to the quarterly results.
Compared to the same quarter in 2013 for the first quarter of 2014 consolidated revenue of $585 million was up 3% on a reported basis and up 5% on a constant currency basis when compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Operating margin was 26% down slightly from 26.3% in the first quarter of 2013.
Diluted earnings per share attributable to Equifax was $0.67 per share.
Excluding acquisition related amortization adjusted EPS was $0.89 up from $0.87 in the first quarter 2013.
Moving to the individual business units our U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $244 million essentially flat when compared to the first quarter of 2013.
Our core non-mortgage market organic growth including strategic initiatives contributed approximately 6% to growth although decline in mortgage market volumes subtracted 6% from growth.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $179 million up 2%.
Core credit decisioning transaction volume was up 9% while average revenue per transaction declined 8%.
The decline in revenue per transaction resulted from fewer mortgage related transactions which are typically at higher than average per transaction and from expansion that select larger financial institutions in Telco’s which have lower than average pricing due to their size.
Mortgage solutions revenue of $24 million was down 18% compared to the fist quarter of 2013.
This compares very favorably to the mortgage bankers application index which is down 54% in the first quarter.
Consumer financial marketing services revenue was $41 million up 3% when compared to the year ago quarter and the operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 38.9% up from 37.5% in the first quarter of 2013.
Our international business unit’s revenue was $144 million up 16% on a reported basis and up 24% on a local currency basis.
The acquisitions we that completed in the fourth quarter and first quarter contributed approximately 15 percentage points at the local currency growth.
Strong organic growth was aided by above average growth in small and medium enterprises government insurance and utilities.
By region Europe’s revenue was $66 million up 48% in U.S.
dollars and up 39% in local currency driven by the acquisition of TDX and upper single digit organic growth in our core business.
Latin America’s revenue is $47 million flat in U.S.
dollars but up 23% in local currency driven about equally by organic growth in technology and analytic services marketing services and by the acquisitions in Paraguay and Mexico.
Canada consumer information revenue was $31 million down 4% in U.S.
dollars but up 5% in local currency driven primarily by solid growth in information solutions and technology and analytical services.
International’s operating margin was 20.4% compared to 28.1% in 2013.
Approximately half of the decline resulted from the increased acquisition related amortization expense of $5.8 million related to producing acquisitions.
The remaining decline resulted from seasonality in our newly acquired TDX business and inflation driven pressures on margin in Argentina.
We expect to exit the year with operating margin over 25%.
Workforce Solutions revenue was $120 million for the quarter down 3% when compared to the first quarter in 2013.
Verification Services with revenue of $64 million was down 7% when compared to the same quarter in 2013.
Strong growth in government and pre-employment partially offset the 31% decline in mortgage-related revenues.
Revenue in our non-mortgage customer segments was up 16%.
Employer Services revenue was $56 million up 1% compared to last year.
The Workforce Solutions overall operating margin was 32.3% compared to 30.3% in the first quarter of 2013 driven primarily by the benefit of reduced acquisition amortization offset partially by the negative effect of lower revenue against the primarily fixed cost expense base.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $54 million up 6%.
Growth was driven primarily by the acquisition of TrustedID.
Solid mid single digit growth in U.S.
subscription revenues and strong growth in Canada were largely offset by declining revenue in breach and transaction products.
Operating margin for Personal Solutions was 28.2% compared to 28.4% in the first quarter a year ago.
North American Commercial Solutions revenue was $23 million flat on a reported basis and up 2% on a local currency basis driven by growth in transaction revenue partially offset by weakness in project oriented revenues.
The operating margin was 19.4% compared to 21.3% in the year ago quarter.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Thanks Lee.
Before we go to Q&amp;A I thought I’ll just give you a couple of thoughts front up and how we think about the remainder of 2014 and how we think about – our overviews of 2015.
One our core organic non-mortgage market growth of 6% to 8% we talked about for a number of years remains solid and we continue to make great progress on all of our initiatives to ensure we deliver in that range as we did in the first quarter.
Secondly the integration of the acquisitions we’re talking about are on track and we’re more optimistic about the potential for TDX and Inffinix together with different markets than at the of the acquisition and these acquisitions are expected to move to be accretive towards the back end of this year.
Three as we talked about in the largely through the mortgage headwinds that will start to abate as we exit the second quarter and continue to abate in the third quarter and put it in the fourth quarter and they are coming back in 2014.
At this point the foreign exchange headwinds we’re talking about and we’re probably getting more seeing some stability there and when we put that all together it says that at this juncture versus the fourth quarter earnings call that we did Lee and I would be more confident in the outlook for the balance of this year and 2015 as we still have time.
We still have to execute obviously as a company.
As was always we reconfirm our full year guidance; we gave it in the last call.
We expect core organic non-mortgage to grow there in the 6% to 8% acquisition added to our growth to our FX and mortgage will continue to be headwinds and going through the second quarter and the early third quarter very much as we expected which is encouraging.
We should expect the total revenue for he total year to be $2.425 billion and $2.475 billion and our adjusted EPS as we told you in the last call between $2.75 a share and $2.89 a share.
In the second quarter we expect reported revenue between $606 million and $619 million and adjusted EPS between $0.92 and $0.95 so very much in line with what we’ve expected from the year.
So with that operator we’d like to open up the phones for some questions.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
So I wanted to – Rick there’s a lot of things your throwing out in terms of initiatives that are taking place and I just wanted to parse it a little bit when we think about this conviction going into the second half and I guess what I’m trying to figure out is how much of the benefit really needs to be kind of cyclical and then the second part is versus what I would consider to be kind of contractual obligations or what your seeing kind of spool up in all of your new products.
I’m just trying to split those two a bit.
Yes it’s tough to quantify the exact breakup.
But let me give you some color around it Dan.
One vertical markets the we’ve doing and have been doing that for a couple of years focus on verticals like autos for example insurance Telco are very more frequently anticipate just a few months ago a few quarters ago that’s number one.
Number two like we mentioned the acquisitions that we have which are great strategically and they become accretive a the back end of year that helps us.
And two the mortgage market as I said before is abating almost as expected.
So it really comes down to continuing to do the things that the group has been doing for a number of years now focusing on customers needs bundling price together in a unique way to solve this problem and executing on a high level.
That combined with a little bit of market help.
I think the economy will start to improve we’re seeing it in some of data right now in many parts of the world.
is that the economy is improving; that helps us as well.
Okay and then on the home equity lending side you know that sounds like something that’s new and could be meaningful.
When we think about that I guess how fast are you seeing that kind of pace or play now and is that something that also gives you some confidence as you think about second half and just I want to be clear where that falls in the P&amp;L.
Is that in verification services or is that up in somewhere else.
Thanks.
Great question Dan.
Its early stages and I’m very encouraged.
We saw some nice volume in the end of the first quarter we expect that to continue in the second quarter.
So I think you'll see that home equity is right at the historical numbers in home equity loans in the marketplace.
You’ll see us returning closer to more normal levels versus the fresh levels we’ve had last four or five years.
As far as where it shows up it predominantly shows up in our EWS business and verification of employment and income.
Okay and then just a last one congratulations on renewing the CMS deal.
But now we’ve got some framework for numbers around that.
Should we come to expect that the contractual minimums is something that is just the jumping off point and you guys should earn a lot more of that revenue possibly into ’14.
Thanks I’ll jump off.
Yes sure I hope so Dan.
Thank you for you for the congratulations on the renewal.
Dan Adams is a doing a heck of a job with CMS for the last 18 months is secure has been re-secured.
There’s a lot of noise in this and frontline of 8 million people who have signed up and you should think about it around the contractual minimums at this point and as far as ramp up you know I expect that in 2015 not 2014.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
Thanks.
I think we talked about that IHS JV that you said it was your first product.
Can you just elaborate on that? Is there potentially more products in the pipeline with them.
Thank you.
Yes thanks Paul.
Yes it’s pretty cool.
Lee and his team have been working with Polk a standalone company for a number of years now and the good news is post IHS acquisition of Polk the doors have continued to remain open.
The see us a unique provider of solutions for the automotive vertical they know this is a unique focus for us.
So we've already had a couple I mentioned one on the call which is the lost sales analysis which is really its helps the underwriters of risk understand why they lost the risk how to place the risk where the ultimate buyer ends up going and why and how they might reposition the next offering better to reduce churn of loss sales.
That is one of the many products that we are currently working with IHS on.
And again I think that’s an example.
Maybe goes back to Dan’s question of what’s different is when we restructure a company we want deep execution on different verticals like auto.
You get intimate with that industry and you understand their needs and challenges.
So our ability to bundle our new products is so important now and so much more effective than it would have been and that sales analysis with IHS is one example.
Great.
If I could just ask a follow-up to Lee.
Lee any way to give us what the total acquired revs were in the first quarter and what the rough range would be for the second quarter? I don’t know about the dollars but the growth was about 4% contributed 4% to growth so it would be roughly 4% against last year’s revenue that’s in the low 20’s.
That will actually step up some in the second quarter because we’ll have a full quarter on TEX and also just the effective acquisition accounting.
When you first do an acquisition you loose some of the differed revenue that the acquired company may have and that tends to affect the first period the most and then diminish over time.
So you’ll see a somewhat bigger effect on growth in the second quarter.
There is about 4% in Q1 and the next quarter the growth and contribution is probably more like 5%.
If I remember the mortgage headwind cost us about six points relative to this quarter is that right? Yes and probably something roughly similar in the second quarter.
It really doesn’t start and then it falls off in the third and fourth quarter to much smaller impacts.
Thank you very much.
Hey guys thanks for taking my questions and congrats on the solid quarter.
I just wanted to dig in on the international side a little bit.
Canada seemed to really accelerate from the fourth quarter.
I just wonder what’s driving that and then also it seems to me that Europe constant currency slowed a little bit.
Is there anything going on there or are there any sort of variations that will sort of play out throughout the course of the year.
Yes there is nothing unusual on either side that is either drawing optimism or concern you got some seasonality in both areas.
As I look at the long term forecast for both Europe excluding Russia but Europe is a little solid performance outperforming the marketplace growing at multiple of GDP.
I see it continuing but I don’t see anything that is really unusual either on the upside or for the downside in that geography.
And George I would add two things.
One on Canada we have had continued good success with our technology and analytical services offerings.
We also saw a little bit stronger growth in just our traditional online credit reporting in the first quarter and I don’t know if there’s any predictability to that.
It will strengthen or weaken a little bit from time to time.
I think Canada continues to be in the low to mid single digit kind of core organic growth trend.
On Europe you know we’ve been indicating that last year it tended to run at very high single digits on organic growth but looking at a very relatively stagnant U.K.
economy and the weak Spain economy reflected just great performance in growth on our part but we’ve been flagging.
That could moderate a little bit and I think that’s what we saw that it continues to perform well across a number of product and customer segments.
Yes I think the organic growth in Europe is about 8%.
7%.
7% for the quarter so we think that those two economies that continue to be fully processed.
Okay great that’s very helpful.
And just one more question Lee the general corporate expenses were down considerably year-on-year.
What’s driving that and how should we think about that line item going forward as it compares to your revenue growth.
Thank you.
The corporate line in addition to having certain of the corporate staff expenses which tend to be pretty stable include the number of activities that are project related discretionary certain investments that we make that are corporate wide and that line can fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter.
It was down year-over-year in the first quarter which would not be the normal trend.
I would say that you should expect for the year that the corporate line will be up but by less than revenue but you will see fluctuations quarter-to-quarter as we have seen some times in the past.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Hi good morning and thank you for taking my questions.
Hey Rick I want to focus a little bit more on the super scores.
It seems to me that if I look over the last kind of seven years or so at Equifax went through a period of focusing more on buying unique assets and then a period of kind of I guess that’s you are still in in terms of integrating the different assets and it seems like the end game or at least part of the end game should be coming up with a lot more of these super scores in areas where your competitors can’t do that.
Can you talk about where – which verticals do you feel like you have that in and where you think you have a lot of potential and how important that is for kind of the strategic revenue growth of the business overall? Yes good question.
As I think about the tenants the long-term growth for the company kind of new area source and talking to you in the past about fraud and ID prevention as being one we talked about analytical solutions being another.
So clearly we’re investing in a very heavy rate.
We brought a great guy in who's steeped in his understanding of and developing of analytical products.
He's done analytics for Hewlett-Packard and he has been for about a year now.
So one having the focus and the talent around analytics and two having the unique data assets available to build those new analytics and insights.
I think we’re in a pretty good position so its clearly a place where we have been and will continue to make a bet on investments in because I think we are uniquely positioned because of our unique data assets.
As far as verticals its going to start off with the verticals where we think we’re uniquely positioned with our unique dated assets automotive is one mortgage is one Telco is one insurance is one.
To start with those are the key areas we can start and maybe also (Inaudible).
How far along do you feel you are in terms of coming out with some of these super scores? Do you feel like there’s lot of open terrain in front of you? I do for one primary reason we have developed some technical capabilities that maybe was to – maybe write the data in different ways than we could before to do it real-time and do it cost-efficiently.
Those capabilities have started late last year early this year that continue to be the third quarter and I expect us to be in position where we can run a much faster rate in an economical way in the fourth quarter this year.
It's early days but very encouraging days.
Okay great.
Just jumping back to the ACA question are you seeing these amount of sign ups actually flowing through and kind of hitting your numbers in terms of expanding the revenue for you guys? Yes yes great question.
To make sure I understand it I’ll expand on time the differences.
We have a analytical capability that builds a company.
They said give us all of your data and with that data we can analyze and tell if your complying with Affordable Care Act.
Two revenue streams that have been important to acknowledge; one is we charge those hundred plus companies for that analytical solution.
Secondly in many cases those companies that were using our platform our analytics have not been Work Number contributors in the past.
So we use this platform analytics platform to not only solve their problem.
But in many cases added a Work Number database which has exceeded our expectations so far and so the monetization of that is once you get on the database people start hitting that database looking for verification and for an income and you know if those record cost records looks like there.
So there’s two revenue streams.
The latter Work Number database lags obviously you get it at the end cleansed and people start hitting it project revenues is more immediate.
What about the substance coming from the government? I’m trying to understand there’s a big number that the government put out and just if you do some machinations around them I’m trying to figure out based on the levels of sign ups and where your seeing the revenue flow they hit the quarterly $50 million $60 million year potential that contract would imply.
Okay great question and again the governments proclaimed 7 million to 8 million people that have signed up.
There is so much more in those numbers than you’ve expected.
So again you can find that many of those people are retired people so there’s more people on the record at this juncture.
So we are not seeing – I think someone asked the question earlier.
If you think about 2014 think more in the framework of the minimum security by CMS and my hope is if this thing ramps up in 2015 and beyond you’ll see revenues move well beyond the minimums its too early to claim that now.
So as I said in the past calls as we more and more get smarter to see what’s occurring in the market place you guys will be the first to know.
Okay if I can I want to squeeze in one.
I want to ask a housekeeping one for Lee.
You purchased a 0.4 million shares the share account still went up a little bit.
Is there a kind of a timing difference is it a stock price or issuance in the equity timing.
How should we think of that in terms of repurchases? Yes I haven’t looked at it quite that closely.
But we probably need to buy between 1 million and 1.25 million shares over the course of the year to offset the effected equity compensation.
I have the average shares that could be timing.
I don’t know have it right in front of me the ending shares.
My guess is the ending shares many have come down just slightly.
But the average shares would be affected when it comes to that timing.
We would have been buying relatively late in the quarter because of the timing of our year-end earnings release.
So its probably a function of timing and the effect on weighted average shares.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Good morning.
This is Rena Kumar for David Togut.
You discussed a lot of your new products in your opening remarks.
Can you just call out which of your new products made the biggest contribution to revenue in the quarter? I don’t have that off the top of my head but again you got to put it in perspective.
We launched anywhere from 15 to 75 new products every year.
Have been so for about seven years so its truly broad based.
We don’t typically look at or get what you call home runs with products.
In total it ends up being a significant number of goals.
As you know there’s a vitality mix of 10% and 11% coming from possibly just three years ago.
So it tends to be a bunch of singles and doubles and it’s truly in almost every geography we have around the world.
I can give a couple of examples some of the bigger categories.
The products that we have developed from the Telco positive database are relatively larger products that have developed in the mortgage base taking advantages of our additional sources of data.
We’re bringing some of our technology decision in platforms much more broadly across our international space and there we have high-end platforms and low-end platforms depending on the size and sophistication of our customers.
Some of the things we’ve down with identity authentication are another one of the larger categories that we’ve brought out.
So those are a couple of the product families that have been the most significantly over the last year.
And just – that’s a good point Lee.
For your benefit those categories have been largely consistent not just this first quarter but as you said the last year or two that’s an area of focus.
Great and if you can just discuss your current acquisition pipeline.
Yes at this juncture we are really focused on integrating TDX Inffinix Paraguay and taking strategically the Inffinix and TDX platforms as I mentioned earlier to different geography.
I think that’s a key to the business occupying for quite some time.
For M&amp;A we continue to look at M&amp;A.
We’re focused more on strategic tuck-ins than there are large deals and so it’ll always be an important part of our strategy.
There’s noting that’s imminent to talk about this juncture.
Thank you.
Sure.
Yes thanks for taking the question.
You mentioned continued expectations from mortgage improvement.
I think last quarter you guys quantified your MBA expectations.
Could you put a number on that for 2Q if possible? Let me speak from memory.
Maybe you have that later Jeff.
We talked about – the MBA was – talked about being done probably in the first half of the year modestly in the second half of the year total year down by 30% for the year.
Second quarter will improve over first quarter is it is down 15%.
It maybe down 20% to 30% for the second quarter.
Does that sound about right.
My word of caution on the MBA industry is that we have had difficultly over time tightly correlating our revenue growth but even some of the flow of closed mortgage loans with the MBA industries.
There’s a lot of different sources for data.
You can look at different economists and they forecast different things.
So there is a lot attention on the MBA indices.
Its as good an index as others but the correlation is a little loose.
So be careful about using that as our – a benchmark for our revenue.
Does someone known what the published MBA is? The Q2 forecast? The trend is everyone is expecting mortgage in general beyond MBA.
The mortgage market in the second quarter was a modestly better than the first quarter.
Okay that helps.
And you mentioned the NPI 2.0 introductions.
Could you just talk more about what your doing differently there and then just in general the pipeline for that product line.
Yes I think it’s more of a process than a product line.
NPI was launched seven years ago and after we’ve waited for seven years it runs the risk of becoming somewhat stale when the entitlement sets in.
So its just our way of reenergizing redefining the parameters on NPI think about NPI.
How you get new ideas in from clients and working with VC firms and Silicon Valley firms.
Just to continue to make sure we got great ideas coming through the funnel.
So its our way of reenergizing it and we started it late last year and its off to a great start.
My hope is that this keeps the energy around NPI going for another four five years.
Okay great and just one last one for me.
You talked about the vitality index in the past three-year contribution mix.
I think previously you said that international sees a large benefit from that.
Any other segments where you’re kind of running above that 10% run rate? Is it pretty spread out across all of them? It will ebb and flow because sometimes you’ll have large products in one particular venue that will run off in a particular year so its accounted.
The last four years as you get into the fourth year we’re counted as part of the core to them not the vitality.
So every business unit will have its ups and downs if they have a good product launch in any one given year so.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Good.
Hey good morning everybody.
The first around the sort of new product and the partnerships you talked about.
So firstly you know you mentioned auto obviously is a key vertical.
You are partnering with IHS Polk.
I was just wondering over the longer term like what your appetite for acquisitions in that area is with respect to sort of building out that capability.
And just around partnerships I know you mentioned HIS.
I was just wondering you guys had an announcement teaming up with CoreLogic as well.
I was wondering you know how significant or incremental could that be? As far as acquisitions we’ll obviously look.
At this juncture as outlook is specifically auto to answer your question.
A key focus here for us I think we’ve assembled unique data assets that we need to succeed there.
I think we’ve assembled the right partners and there are a number of key partners who have capability in the pipes into the automotive industry that they see the value we bring and we see the value they bring.
They tend to look towards commercial agreements versus hard core JVs at this juncture.
I don’t see we need to do anything on the M&amp;A front because that obviously may change.
I think we can do as we have been doing and be quite successful.
As far as CoreLogic I’m not going to break that out.
The partnerships are important to us as we get into verticals and vertical focus to find people like CoreLogic who are very good in a particular spacing and we’re going to bring value and do bring value.
It’s a win-win situation.
So we are not going to quantity the size of that.
Fair enough.
Your not quantifying it but would that be an added lever in terms of offsetting the market growth more than what you already are doing.
Yes I think so.
I think you think of any time we can find it it will bring value to the mortgage market that we couldn’t bring in the past.
That’s offset the revenues yes.
Okay and then Lee just on the margin side I was just wondering if you’d help us sort of cover the things out.
So on the corporate expense line you said the total year number should be I guess higher than the 2013 number and you said less than growth.
I’m guessing up 10% or so.
I just wanted to see if you give us a little more specificity there.
And then on the international side I think you said exit the year at 25%.
I just wanted to clarify that meant the full year number should be 25% or just the fourth quarter should be the 25%? On the corporate expense I would expect that they growth probably in the range of 4% or 5% although again that can change as we make decisions through the year on various projects and initiatives we want to undertake but my current expectations would be we might be looking at 4% 5% growth for the year.
In international that 25% probably a reasonable number for the second half but that’s not a full year number that’s a half number.
Particularly as we get TDX integrated recognizing the seasonality of its business as well as we get through the period where we’re running off or is not able to recognize their past differed revenue just give a nature lift in what TDX is contributing.
And then for the second quarter international is similar to the first quarter? Probably a little bit better but we’re still below where we would expect it to be over time.
Okay and just one last one I don’t know if I remember this but in terms of the CMS minimums that you talked about that have you guys disclosed that before? I think we have.
Jeff hope you – have you given the numbers? Yes we though that that number is around $8 million to $10 million.
Okay all right thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Okay with that I’d like to thank everybody for their interest and support in Equifax and with that operator we’ll conclude the call.
No there are none.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the Q2 2014 Equifax Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks and good morning to everybody.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations.
And with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and John Gamble Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section of the About Equifax tab on our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we will be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2013 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax that will be adjusted for certain items which affect the comparability of the underlying operational performance.
Adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax excludes the acquisition-related amortization expense and the associated tax effects.
This measure is detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Also please refer to our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.equifax.com for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Thanks to -- as always for making time to join us on this call today.
Before I jump into my -- to the overview of the strategic accomplishments for the second quarter let me at least by phone introduce John Gamble.
I think everyone knows John is our new CFO.
John's been with us for about 2 months now and off to a great start.
As you would expect the transition between Lee Adrean and John Gamble has been a very thoughtful one a well-thought-out one smooth and is going extremely well.
John has inherited a really good team good processes and he's off to a great start.
So John welcome.
And as always after I go through my strategic update John will jump in and give you the financials.
And we'll both be here on John's first call to answer any questions you may have of either one of us.
Our performance in the second quarter was very strong.
It was above our guidance and it was really driven by a continued strong execution of our core strategic initiatives.
And those initiatives again offset the mortgage headwinds that we saw in the first half of the year and that continued in the second quarter.
And the execution that we continued to deliver positions us very well for a strong performance in the second half of 2014 and into 2015.
For the quarter revenue was $614 million up 5% on a reported basis and 6% on local currency basis versus the second quarter of 2013.
When you exclude the mortgage market headwinds and include our acquisitions that we made last year and some in the early part of this year revenue grew 9% in U.S.
dollars and 11% in local currency.
Our operating margins was off to a strong 27.3% up from 26.9% a year ago.
Our adjusted EPS was $0.96 up from $0.92 last year and up from our guidance of $0.92 to $0.95.
So I think any way you look at it a really strong financial performance for us in the second quarter.
And now we'll all go through each of the BUs with some detail there.
First with USCIS and that team continues to innovate.
It continues to have rigorous execution against these initiatives and as a result of broadening and deepening our customer relationships.
And for the first half their core non-mortgage market organic growth rate was a solid 6% and I'll give you some details around that 6% that good performance.
With one of the top 4 banks in the United States we have leveraged our successful implementation of the analytical sandbox which we've talked to you about a number of times on this call.
We've now taken that analytical sandbox to the next level.
It's allowing us to develop tools to help them forecast.
Our longer-term focus with this institution is to develop an insights-based enterprise-wide analytics ecosystem that will support multiple decisioning applications including modeling forecasting market analysis account management and prospecting.
So think of it this way when we talked to you about a year ago I think it was about launching these very unique analytical sandboxes we said there's multiple ways to make money.
One was the actual implementation of sandbox which that was at the time that we launched.
The second phase we talked about was the ability to develop new products and capabilities.
That's what this is all about and that's what they're paying us for not the sandbox but for the products and capabilities that come out of the sandbox.
And the third potential bite of the apple we talked about was the potential of actually having them outsource their analytics to us that's still to come.
But a great great step with one of the most important banks in the United States.
Secondly our enterprise-wide focus on key industry verticals broadens our reach and strengthens our competitive position.
We recently signed a multiyear agreement with our largest insurance customer to build a prospecting database that will be their primary source for marketing campaigns.
This particular opportunity was a competitive takeaway and further solidifies our exclusive relationship with a very large customer in one of the targeted growth sectors we talked to you about.
We are also deepening our relationship with customers by helping them drive synergies within their organization create better standards and governance processes reduce waste within the organization and improve the quality and effectiveness of their marketing efforts.
For another top 4 bank we are undertaking a 1-year professional service engagement to help them deploy Lean in their customer credit marketing organizations.
So think about this we deployed Lean which is a strength we've had in our company now for a number of years.
When we deploy that into our customers' operations especially like this one of the top 4 banks it positions us as a thought leader and different than our competition which opens doors for revenue down the road.
In our auto vertical we have developed a unique solution leveraging our Customer Services Database called the CDS -- CSD and our patent pending fusion modeling technology.
With this solution one of the largest direct auto lenders we'll be able to approve more applications real-time improve its overall close rate in enhancing its competitive position with the auto dealers.
Remember the Consumer Services Database CSD as we call it we used to call it NC+ [ph] that's our positive telco database.
A combination of fusion modeling and that unique database is allowing us to gain share in the automotive vertical in the U.S.
Again another very important vertical for us for growth.
Our Decision 360 strategy to provide unique high-value insights for customers' decision needs continues to be an important growth driver for us.
We're a very large credit card issuer.
We combine the verification of income with credit data for their credit line increased program.
The solution will enable to be in compliance with the Reg Z requirements while at the same time providing additional insights to improve their overall decisioning on these opportunities.
Another example how D360 is really making a difference in the marketplace.
For 2014 we continued to expect USCIS to deliver non- -- deliver core non-mortgage market organic growth in their long-term growth range of 5% to 7%.
On the International they're making very good progress integrating the recent acquisitions particularly TDX.
If you recall that was domiciled in the U.K.
and Inffinix which is domiciled in Mexico and delivering -- in developing our global collection strategy.
The second quarter performance was in line with our expectations demonstrating ability to deliver performance on both their critical strategic priorities and operational initiatives.
Strong organic growth in the FI and SME segments were the principle drivers of growth for International.
PSol in Europe continues to deliver strong double-digit growth up 32% from the second quarter of 2013.
I think you'll recall we have deployed the efforts of Trey Loughran in the U.S.
PSol team to the International footprint and that's really paying dividends in places like Europe and now Latin America.
Our international telco vertical had 2 major wins in the quarter for a large U.K.
telecommunications company.
We were selected to deliver customized decisioning solutions for their mobile operations with our InterConnect platform.
You might recall that deploying InterConnect globally has been a top priority for us over the last 4 or 5 years another example that's gaining traction for us.
And in Chile we're delivering an ID management solution for a customer acquisition which will lower their cost of acquisition in addition to some of their back-office expenses.
Quickly on TDX.
TDX continues to make really good progress.
It's early days only 6 months or so but they're making very good progress.
And strategically we are very optimistic on the long-term fit for this company not just in the current footprint but in additional footprints as well.
We've added a second large customer in Australia in the last couple of months and we're building a very robust pipeline of opportunities in Australia.
In U.K.
we continued to have significant contract wins in the pipeline we currently have should enable TDX to deliver a very strong double-digit growth in 2015.
Workforce Solutions is making a significant progress in diversifying its revenue.
Through their suite deployment and income verification solutions they are enabling deeper transparency for risk decisioning and their employer community they have become an industry leader in providing employers with insights and capabilities to support their compliance activities.
You've heard us talked about that how Dann Adams and his team have brought data and analytics mindset and capabilities for not only the verifier side but also the employer side.
You've heard us talk about the CMA analytics in the past.
Some records for the Work Number database are up to just shy of 245 million records and we now have over 3 700 companies contributing their employment and income information to that database.
As you recall our goal is not just to add the number of records but also add more and more employers who contribute that data to us and Dann has done a heck of a job on both fronts.
We are lessening our dependence on mortgage activity in EWS.
During the quarter our non-mortgage product revenue grew a very strong 10%.
Through new product innovation and diversification into new markets our verifier revenue is now over 60% of Workforce Solutions revenue up significantly from the 35% level in 2007 which is the time we acquired the company.
And the value of an active record in the Work Number database now is up 94% since the acquisition of TALX in 2007.
That comes through a lot of strong effort in our pricing team that comes through mix that comes through vertical market expansion diversification.
So it's not just adding records to the database but it's also the value of the record and a combination of both those is pretty powerful financial model.
Our focus on the government sector is progressing well due largely to our strong working relationship with the Centers for Medicare &amp; Medicaid Services in support of the Affordable Care Act.
We have identified a number of strong opportunities to assist them and other government agencies with employment and income verification ID management and fraud solutions.
I'm sure that everyone or many of you have read the Wall Street Journal articles earlier this week.
We'll during the Q&amp;A answer any questions you might have regarding the recent appellate court decisions.
We are also uniquely positioned to help financial institutions meet their regulatory compliance obligations.
Recently a top 4 banks signed a contract to use our employment and income verification solution to meet CFPB requirements for their credit line increasing offers -- increased offers.
Workforce Solutions core non-mortgage market organic growth rates continue to be above their long-term range of 7% to 10% so a strong execution in EWS.
The current environment for our Personal Solutions segments continues to be challenging.
As we thought in the past the free market that has emerged.
Growth in our transaction and part revenue has slowed but the acquisition of TrustedID last year enables us to pursue a whole new set of indirect opportunities in the pipeline there for the indirect opportunity is as strong as we have seen in quite some time and gives us great hope that PSol will in fact turn -- return to their long-term growth model.
We are currently developing new strategies to optimize the return on general marketing spend and plan to test the launch of these campaigns during the second half of 2014 early part of 2015.
Assuming no change -- no significant changes to the regulatory environment I am confident that the strategic path that Trey Loughran and PSol are on that PSol will return to their upper-single-digit growth rates in 2015 and really leveraging the TrustedID indirect market opportunity as well as our new strategic plan for the core business.
Finally North American Commercial Solutions.
A few years ago we shifted to a customer-centric model.
We embarked upon what we called an enterprise-wide distribution marketing strategy to maximize our penetration of products and services into targeted market segments.
USCIS was designated as the business unit responsible for executing strategic initiatives.
They were the biggest they had the most pipes and most customers.
We first established our key client program with 4 of our largest customers.
We now have 8 customers in KCP.
We quickly followed that organizing our enterprise-wide marketing teams.
We've targeted verticals like mortgage auto telco utilities and insurance.
This strategic initiative has contributed greatly to North American Commercial Solutions' historical growth and market share gains.
The environment is changing and our customer relationships are now much broader and deeper.
At the same time our successful enterprise selling gives us tremendous opportunity to continue driving growth and market share gains for our commercial business.
The next logical step in the evolution of our enterprise distribution strategy is to simplify the way our commercial customers interact with us to allow us to accelerate growth and penetration.
To accomplish this we're going to consolidate the U.S.
portion of the commercial business into USCIS and the combined entity will be renamed USIS versus USCIS.
The Canadian piece of commercial will go into international and leverage their strong relationship in Canada.
As you will recall it wasn't that many years ago that was the structure for commercial.
And to allow us to have a little bit more focus to get more scale which we have done I broke it out as a direct report to me.
So it's not going back to the old structure we used to have in the USCIS in Canada.
We are as committed today as we have ever been to growing commercial and I'm convinced now that we've incubated it for a few years combining with International and USCIS will do just that.
So in summary all the business units are performing at a high level.
Best practices regardless whether they originated or being leveraged across the organization.
With depth of experience our management team has enabled us easily move people and ideas across businesses.
And while the individual business units will have difficult challenges from time to time our portfolio of businesses could not be stronger or better positioned than we are today.
We're now halfway through 2014 with 2 strong quarterly performance behind us.
I'm proud of our team and how they've executed against their strategic initiatives enabling us to overcome the mortgage headwinds in a much better shape than we anticipated when we entered the year.
We built good foundation for continued growth in 2014 and beyond.
And with that John officially welcome to your first earnings call with Equifax.
I'd like you to kind of walk us through the financials then we'll come back and do some Q&amp;A.
Great.
Thanks Rick and I'm very excited to be joining the team and looking forward to a long and successful career.
So as Rick already mentioned we had some exciting opportunities in front of us.
We're successfully maneuvering the headwinds and feel very good about our positioning and our various markets and the growth we should be able to deliver for ourselves our customers and our shareholders.
I'll be referring to the financial results from continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
Now let me turn to the quarterly results.
Rick already covered the total company financials so I'll focus on the individual business units.
Overall U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions came in a bit better than we expected.
Revenue was $264 million up 2% when compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Online Consumer Information Solutions revenue was $191 million up 4% when compared to the year-ago period and up 7% from the first quarter of 2014.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $28 million was down 15% compared to Q2 2013.
This compares favorably to the Mortgage Bankers Application Index which was down 52% in the second quarter.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue was $45 million up 7% when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The operating margin for U.S.
Consumer Information Solutions was 41.5% up from 40.2% in the second quarter of 2013.
International revenue was $153 million up 18% on a reported basis and up 23% on local currency basis.
Acquisitions contributed approximately 17 points to the local currency growth.
By region Europe's revenue was $72 million up 53% in U.S.
dollars and up 40% in local currency driven by the acquisition of TDX and mid-single-digit organic growth in our core business.
Latin America's revenue was $48 million down 1% in U.S.
dollars but up 19% in local currency driven broadly by double-digit organic growth in consumer and commercial information solutions decision solutions analytical services and personal solutions.
Canada Consumer revenue was $33 million down 3% in U.S.
dollars but up 3% in local currency.
As you know our International margins have been impacted by the recent acquisitions.
For the second quarter International's operating margin was 21.8% up from 20.4% in the first quarter of 2014.
As we indicated in our first quarter call we expect to exit the year with an operating margin of over 25%.
Workforce Solutions revenue was $119 million for the quarter down 3% when compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Verification Services with revenue of $72 million was down 6% when compared to the same quarter of 2013.
Employer Services revenue was $47 million up 1% compared to last year.
And the Workforce Solutions operating margin was 33.9% compared to 31.1% in Q2 of 2013.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $54 million up 5%.
Growth was driven primarily by acquisition of TrustedID.
Operating margin was 30.5% compared to 27.6% in Q2 2013 largely driven by reduced marketing expense in the quarter.
North America Commercial Solutions revenue was $23 million up 1% on a reported basis and up 3% on a local currency basis.
Operating margin was 17.3% compared to 16.8% in the year-ago quarter.
And I will turn it back to Rick.
Thanks John.
As we enter the third quarter we are very encouraged by the various market opportunities we have for growth in each of the business units and continue to be very pleased with the execution of each of the BUs and COEs.
While we still have a bit of mortgage headwind for the balance of the year it has improved dramatically versus what we saw in the first half of the year.
And as I've said before the mortgage market is really unwinding very much like we had anticipated back when we gave guidance early part of 2014.
For the third quarter some of the current exchange rates we'd expect the reported revenue will be between $620 million and $625 million.
Adjusted EPS is expected to be between $0.96 and $0.99 for the full year.
We're still on the path to deliver our core organic non-mortgage market growth rate of 26% and 8% and with the team's high level of execution and the opportunities we see before us we are now in a position to increase our full year guidance.
Assuming the current exchange rates we should end the year with revenue between $2.440 billion and $2.465 billion and adjusted EPS between $3.83 and $3.91.
And I always said versus our previous guidance of $3.75 to $3.89 and the current consensus of $3.83.
With this full year guidance our revenue growth accelerates from about 4% in the first half of 2014 to a level of about 9% to 12% in the second half of the year.
And most importantly that gives us really good momentum and confidence as we go into 2015.
So with that operator if you would please open it up for any questions that they may have.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from George Mihalos with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start off the USCIS again had another really strong quarter revenues and margins certainly better than what we were looking for.
Just curious outside of auto which has been hot for a while now can you sort of call out another 2 or 3 end markets that you think are really sort of picking up steam recently? Yes it's markets and it's share gains.
So -- and I mentioned a few of them in the call towards -- we have insurance sector some nice wins there.
In our online business especially with our KCP accounts.
If you recall KCP has gone from 4 large banks to 8 very strategic accounts including the 4 large banks.
And then online business area continues to accelerate.
We're gaining share there.
We talked about an analytical win we had with the sandbox one of the top 4 banks.
Auto continues to be fantastic for us.
So it is really really broad-based that's giving us great growth there.
And obviously with that kind of growth in a high fixed cost business all that margin falls to the bottom line.
You've seen a great acceleration of margin there as well.
Research Division</strong> That's great color.
And I just wanted to dig in a little bit on the guidance for the full year.
You have sort of tightened the range around your revenue with a higher midpoint.
Just curious relative to your expectations what is outperforming from a revenue perspective versus what might be coming in a little bit lighter now that you've sort of updated that range? Well PSol will take another quarter or 2 to implement their new strategy and execute what I mentioned on the call the TrustedID indirect wins.
So that softened a little bit with a little bit of headwind.
A few countries in Central and South America have softened a bit.
But then you're seeing stuff like the core organic non-mortgage market growth rate in EWS.
I mentioned that growing over 10% for the second quarter in a row.
That's things like collections government credit card auto for them.
We just walked through an array of different areas that are growing very strongly in USCIS.
Europe is growing stronger than expected.
Our core organic growth rate in places like Spain and the U.K.
which still tend to be troubled economies are delivering very very solid organic growth rates.
In fact I think we mentioned we didn't -- the organic growth rates outside the U.S.
are growing at 6% to 7% growth rate and that's inclusive of some pretty tough economies.
So that's a long answer to a very simple question.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just last question from a modeling perspective.
John the corporate expense line has been down pretty considerably over the first half of '14 your general corporate expenses what's driving that? And then how should we think about modeling that over the back half of the year? Yes.
I believe the guidance we gave for the year was that corporate expenses would be up slightly.
And I think that we still expect that to be the case.
And I think what you're seeing really in the first half versus second half is really just timing mostly around investments.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if I missed it but did you discuss online volumes in the consumer information systems? Well I'm sorry Paul.
What was your question? Research Division</strong> So what were online volumes in the online consumer information services? The OCIS volume was up 12% for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And is the reason the differential between the volume growth and the revenue growth is that still that higher value mortgage is down and that should reverse in the third quarter? It's mixed largely.
And mortgage is one piece of that.
Customer mix could be another piece.
Sometimes when you have large -- you have growth as I mentioned I think just a second ago in our very large strategic accounts the pricing thresholds are different there than they would be for other customers.
So just think of it generically as mix.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the second half does that mix improved from where it is today? I would not expect it to change dramatically.
Next we will hear from David Togut with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> If you could dig into the International margin outlook a little bit if you addressed this initially I apologize.
I was joining from another call but what should we expect from International now that TDX is fully integrated? Yes.
One I'm not sure when you joined.
But TDX as I mentioned on the call if you've missed it is coming along very nicely.
We continue to integrate it successfully.
We're getting great wins in our current footprint like Australia and the U.K.
and we're very encouraged we have the ability to bring it to other markets like U.S.
Canada and into South America.
As far as margin goes we had mentioned at the time of the acquisition there would be a drag as we get TDX up and running on the margin for the first half of the year.
And as we exit the year we expect to fully [ph] be back to the historical range of around 25% or so for International.
So we're very much on track with that.
John had reiterated that in his comments as well.
So from a strategic perspective financial perspective and margin perspective TDX and International are on the direction we had guided back in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just as a follow-up could you give us your updated thoughts on capital allocation? And in particular any thoughts about a potential 2015 dividend increase? Yes.
I'll take a crack at it.
John if you want to jump in you can add to it as well.
Our dividend policy that David was -- established a few years ago we remain committed to that and actually gives back 25% to 35% of our net income in the form of the dividends.
So obviously as net income rises the dividend will increase.
I don't anticipate changing that financial model 25% to 35%.
As I think overall that capital structure outside of dividend and we've been fairly light in our share repurchase in the first half of the year.
You should expect us to increase at a pretty significant rate the share repurchase in the back half of this year.
But our leverage at this point in time is fairly low right? Yes.
Good point.
And our leverage is 1.8 1.9.
1.8 yes.
Next we'll hear from Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to come back to that International margin again a little bit.
What are the trigger points that are going to get you guys back to this 25%? I think originally I'd always assumed that you were going to do some I think fairly reasonable amount of investments to take TDX into those other markets.
And I'm wondering has that changed at all or is that TDX running ahead of budget on the revenue side.
Just it's a pretty big I guess jump to get to the 25% kind of run rate as we exit the year.
No it's pretty straightforward.
Just the leverage you get as it -- business continues to grow and get the revenue stream it tends to be more backend loaded and TDX backend loaded than front end loaded so you get some leverage there.
We'll get the operational synergies you expect.
But let me clarify a point Dan.
The cost to take the solutions -- the suite of solutions that we have with TDX into additional countries is very very very cost efficient.
You can do it because the data the solutions are housed in the U.K.
So when you go to Spain when you go to Columbia when you go to Australia you can literally do that with a salesperson or 2 or maybe you outsource it to a value-added reseller so that the cost of implementation is very very low.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
It sounds like the analytical sandbox has moved kind of passed this beta testing idea and you're even calling out as one of the -- I guess one of the growth drivers you saw in USCIS.
And so I wanted to spend a second on a little bit the revenue model.
You talked about the first stage as kind of setting up this enterprise-wide decisioning but then you talk about selling the new products and capabilities.
I'm just trying to get a sense of kind of how that revenue model builds out.
One sounds like you've got greater visibility than the other end.
And the other one sounds like you might have an upfront piece of revenue.
So if you could just parse that that would be great.
Yes there is 2 things to think about.
One is we continue to add different players stand up being able to sandbox with them so we get paid for that just like we have with other banks in the past.
We're starting to do this not just in the U.S.
but outside the U.S.
as well.
Secondly as I mentioned one of the top 4 banks when you stand that up we get their teams and our teams in there looking at the combined data assets and start hypothesizing about products and solutions.
So what that's resulted in now is a series of batch projects and analytics that we've done for these banks and they pay us for that.
So it's -- financially think about it is offline batch revenue and it's really analytics and solutions that we're providing with the unique data assets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question I have.
Are you -- across the demand environment for the consumer spectrum primarily in the United States are you seeing any change or I should say broadening of the spectrum relative to kind of the affluent consumer relative to the non-affluent consumer? Thanks Dan.
I'd say overall we're seeing -- I think your question was specifically the U.S.
we're not seeing a whole lot of change in the U.S.
dynamics for the consumer with the exception of 2 areas and one we've highlighted in the past and that is the automotive market.
Banks are aggressive in the automotive market consumers the age of the cars.
The age -- I think some of the oldest levels in the history of our country.
So that's obviously a high demand area for us.
The other thing we're seeing I'm not sure it really ties affluent versus non-affluent that is with inventory of homes coming down prices going up.
The demand for loans against their homes so home equity loans is starting to rise for the first time in quite some time.
And our forecast anticipates that will continue to accelerate to the back end of this year and clearly through 2015.
Hopefully that helps.
Next we'll hear from Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> One question to follow up on the last one.
With some of the conversation around potential banks getting more aggressive than the "subprime market " I was wondering do you see any outsized contribution to growth from customers that are evaluating say subprime product customers versus say a more affluent customer? Do they buy more reports? Do they spend more money on monitoring or is the revenue opportunity there pretty similar? Yes I think we're fairly agnostic to this segment.
With the -- as they go down subprime I'm thinking of automotive and we talked that last time we talked about a thing called a superscore as they go down to subprime they're more inclined to ask a few more questions.
So they are more likely to pull a verification of employment a verification of income.
If someone was walking in and has the score of 780 800 this is excluding mortgage they may or may not pull VOE/VOI.
But clearly as the markets go down market -- their appetite for verification of income and employment goes up.
They may also leverage things like our CSD what we used to call NC+ [ph] or our -- which helps them PIN-file [ph].
So if they're not really credit active they'll pull the file to see how they paid off the utilities and telco obligations in the past.
So if there's upside Andre it's really in those areas of VOE/VOI and CSD.
Research Division</strong> And I know you don't control the pace here and you see a lot of the same headlines we do but I was just wondering if you can give some color on how the Verification Service is used for the onboarding process where public exchange is going and how much that's currently contributing to verification revenue to date.
Yes sure.
It's -- we've kind of framed up in the past is it's above the minimum annual obligated threshold app that we have with CMS.
All the trials that the government had rolling out was an initiative we obviously felt as well.
There are some really exciting things going on with that right now.
One we've talked about on the last earnings call is to help our employers show they're compliant with the Affordable Care Act.
We're deploying analytics to those customers and we're charging for that.
We've got a-- we've closed over 100 deals and a very very strong pipeline on top of that.
Secondly as we deploy those analytics we're getting more records added and that's adding significantly to the Work Number database.
And then third as you know in November I think it's the 15th is the next period for enrollment.
So we expect to see some uptick then.
You've seen and I alluded to in my opening comments there were 2 appellate court rulings a week or so ago and maybe even this week.
A lot of noise there.
Who knows where that goes but we're no smarter there than you guys are at this point in time.
But our instinct is that they probably solve this in a proper way between now and then and there's little impact.
But time will tell there.
Next we will hear from Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
This is Louis Pavi [ph] stepping in for Andrew Steinerman this morning.
So we heard Rick mention a couple of times that Equifax is helping clients more with prospecting and we recall that Alliance Data bought the Direct Marketing Services division in 2010 and so is there a return to that type of business and maybe with a little bit different approach this time? No no.
I mean that was a great transaction for us and it's in the right hand with the right owner.
And yes and our team are doing a great job with that platform we used to call DMS.
That was not a core competency of ours.
Our whole focus is to leverage our analytics leverage our unique data assets to help our customers like ADS and like in banks be smarter in prospecting and growing their business.
That's a win for us that's a win for them -- for us.
Don't expect us to get back in that business.
Okay great.
And one more question just it's obvious that Equifax is very excited about the TDX acquisition and that's doing great.
Can you talk a little bit more about the broader strategy in the collections space? Yes that's a great one.
We are equally as excited about this platform we bought in Mexico Inffinix.
In fact we get [ph] smarter every day.
Our initial thought when we bought both those companies was one it gave us capabilities we had to have for our current customers.
It was a need they had that was being unfulfilled.
It -- we also thought about TDX as being a platform that was for the larger more sophisticated customers and countries.
And in Inffinix would be a stronger fit for the developing countries like Central and South America.
As we get smarter about both assets we see kind of some combining of the 2 platforms broadening the entire continuum of capabilities and collections as opposed to bifurcating them by sophistication of markets.
So we're very very hopeful that not only will these businesses grow in the current footprint that they operate in but we'll bring them to our broader footprint that Equifax operates in and eventually into new countries where we don't operate at all.
It's a very cost-effective way I mentioned earlier to get into new geographies if you solve problems for customers learn about the marketplace and then expand our analyst capability beyond collections.
Moving on we'll hear from Manav Patnaik.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Greg calling in for Manav.
The margins for us were the biggest surprise and I was wondering if you could help us sort of bridge the gap for the second half of the year.
You've got the TDX benefit so you should see higher margins in International.
But I was wondering if there are any unique seasonal factors that we should consider for the second half of the year.
The only thing -- I wouldn't say it's really seasonal but John alluded to it and it impacts margins is that on the corporate expense line we do have some investments we'll be making in the second half of the year.
And remember our investments tend to be largely around capital for new products and technology to grow.
So you should see a step-up there as John alluded to that obviously impacts margin.
But in general terms what we should expect is -- we are committed to our long-term margin model what we talked to guys about that.
And that is every year growing 25 basis points or so on the margin and we've done that for quite some time.
We plan to continue this still going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the commercial and bringing it into the consumer businesses.
I was wondering if there is any change in strategy there.
Are they -- are you looking for additional cross-sell opportunities between the business lines and what the thought process was there? Yes.
Good question Greg.
So if you go back -- I can't recall exactly what year it was but when broke out commercial into a North America unit reporting to me it was to get me closer to the business understand the business take a very small business incubate it and grow it.
And I'm always convinced that at that time it needed more direct attention and we did that and we grew it more successful.
Then a couple of years ago maybe 2 years ago we launched this thing called enterprise selling which is maximizing our interaction with our good customers in the U.S.
and using the pipes and resources of at the time Dann Adams -- excuse me Rudy Ploder.
Rudy Ploder's leadership and his team in the U.S.
and sell all of our products.
They would sell a verification of employment income the USCIS products and the commercial products.
That has gained great traction in the last couple of years.
And it became very obvious that the next up is just to make that organizationally a direct report into Rudy's team.
Give all the attention it requires.
It's been incubated it's gaining traction.
So it was just the natural thing to do to help minimize the confusion for our customers minimize the inefficiencies we may have organizationally as well.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Jeff Meuler with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Did you guys say plus 9% core organic x mortgage constant currency? No.
I think I said in my very opening comment it was 9% growth including acquisitions.
Constant currency is that right Jeff? I don't know -- yes the core organic non-mortgage market growth rate for the quarter was very much like the first quarter mid-6% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Rick if I'm hearing you correctly it sounds like you're naming more wins larger wins and a relatively good pipeline versus what I -- how I remember you describing it in the past.
Am I hearing you correctly? And if so what's driving it? Is there something in the end market whether it'd be competitor disruption or improvement in some of the end markets or is this really all about Equifax execution? I think it's a continuous story.
Something we've been talking about for quite some time.
And you're hearing me talking about some larger wins but we've been building this for quite some time.
It's really leveraging the unique data assets we've tried to build out since 2007.
It's about the analytics capability drive off of those unique data assets.
It's about NPI.
So all the things we've been doing.
And what you're seeing is the team is executing at extremely high levels and I've said this a few times.
It's probably the highest levels I've seen since I've been here.
And when you put that all together it's making a difference in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on PSol it seems like the free [ph] options are here to stay but you sound pretty confident about getting some reacceleration next year so maybe a little bit more on the PSol strategy? Yes.
One Trey is a solid leader and he's done a very good job of understanding the current environment which we're in adapting to the current environment for fleets.
And I think short-term he's done a really good job of maximizing the profit coming out of PSol while he takes the ship and kind of redirects it.
And when he redirects it we'll go back to higher levels of growth.
That's number one.
And I've been through his strategy.
I agree with his strategy.
It's thoughtful and it will be effective and I think we'll start to see that as we exit this year and get into 2015.
Secondly we bought a really good franchise in a marketplace or the market segment that we had largely ignored in my time here in the indirect market and we bought this company called TrustedID.
And Scott Mitic who runs that found that business he and his team out there running others have built a remarkable pipeline on the indirect side and that just takes time.
So yes the company -- takes time that once you get a pipeline built to close it and get the revenue but that is coming and it's coming strongly.
So the combination of kind of taking the old what we call kind of PSol east getting this new strategy up and running and are leveraging indirect model.
The combination of those 2 things gives me new confidence that we'll get back to the upper-single-digit growth rates next year and beyond.
And then there's a big unknown out there.
And I used that in my comments as it relates to PSol and that is where does the regulatory landscape how does it evolves over the coming years? So assuming it evolves as we are hopeful that it will I think PSol's upper single-digit growth strategy we talked about for long-term is very very realistic.
We'll now hear from Bill Warmington with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> The -- on the commercial side of the business that's been -- the growth area has been below average compared to the corporate average.
Can you talked a little bit about what's driving that in terms of how much of it's macro or how much of it is competition and how the new structure actually addresses that? Yes I think it's to be honest it's always a combination of both.
I think it's the small business lending is starting to heal but it's not real strong yet.
And if you look at the transcripts from any of the banks they would reiterate that.
There is always some element of execution that we've got to look at ourselves in the mirror and say are we executing at the highest level possible.
And so I think it's a combination both those there.
I do think by taking down an organizational wall and making it more fluid by having Rudy and USCIS directly own that product capability for the customers in the U.S.
will help and same thing I think that when you get Carol Gray and Paulino Barros in Canada and you take that artificial wall down of reporting and have unadulterated access to that that should help in Canada as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the M&amp;A side if you could comment on the volume and the attractiveness of potential targets you're looking at these days.
Yes.
I'd say we just concluded our 3-year strategic plan Bill and M&amp;A is tied to strategy obviously.
And the pipeline continues to center around fraud and ID analytics and tuck-ins geographical expansion.
I don't see at this juncture a need to do any large transformational deals by any means.
We're still committed to our model of 1 to 2 points of revenue growth coming from acquisitions over an extended period of time so I think that still holds true today.
We have one additional question left in the queue.
We'll hear from Brett Huff with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Somebody had a couple of questions around the USCIS and kind of what was driving that and you outlined some of that.
I'm going to ask again that question and just see if you'll comment on any uptick you all are seeing in card mailings specifically because I don't think I heard you mention that.
We've heard from a couple of people one of your competitors.
And then one of the issuing processors saying that they're seeing an improvement in mailings maybe not to prime folks not to subprime but kind of somewhere in the middle.
Are you seeing any of that at all or any comments on that? Yes I'd say.
And it shows up in our marketing numbers.
I would not describe it as overly robust now.
It is definitely picking up sequentially it's picking up year-over-year but I'd describe it.
And as I talk to CEOs of banks and card issuers and talk to our teams it's still very early days.
They're still very very cautious in getting back into a more aggressive broad-based lower credit score card issuance strategy at this juncture.
So yes it's picking up a bit Brett but it's still just sluggish.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question is a little bit bigger picture.
It seems like you've got a lot of levers you can pull as usual for rev growth and it sounds like your enterprise sales effort has been very effective but you're always investing in new products.
Which of those 2 levers sort of the cross sale if you will or the new products do you see sort of the most upside here in the next year or so? Well I think as I think about levers for organic growth I think about NPI continuing to be -- it's a huge part of our DNA it's a been a big part of our success for the past 7 years.
That will continue to be.
Secondly is verticalization.
We've been at that now for a couple of years around the world.
And we have identified the key verticals that are important for us and we're actively and aggressively going after those in every geography of the world and that's enabled us to gain share and win.
And it's not just share gain but it is -- because of our unique data assets that we have Brett it's enabling us to get customers to spend more money on solutions that they wouldn't have otherwise spent.
And our competitors at this juncture don't have the ability to offer the same solution.
So a combination of all 3 of those.
We have no questions left in the queue.
I'll turn the call back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks operator.
Appreciate everybody's time and interest and support of Equifax.
And with that we will conclude the call.
Thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Equifax Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations and with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and John Gamble Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2013 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax and adjusted operating margin.
It will be adjusted for certain items which affect the comparability of the underlying operational performance.
Adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and the associated tax effects in addition to the impact of a settlement of a legal dispute over certain software license agreements.
Adjusted operating margin excludes the legal settlement regarding the dispute over software license agreements.
These measures are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Also please refer to our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.equifax.com for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us again this morning for the third quarter earnings call.
The team delivered a solid performance again in the third quarter as they continue to execute on our growth strategy and our operational excellence priorities.
We continue to improve our NPI process sharpen our focus on delivering solutions that leverage our multiple data assets and sophisticated analytics expertise.
Customer demand for our Decision 360 offerings continues to be high and I'll go through some examples of those when I jump into the USIS highlights in a few moments.
LEAN is also making important contributions to our initiatives both revenue and expense.
This year we have 10 enterprise growth initiatives that are being managed using our process improvement and measurement tools that we've developed and we've talked to you about those in the past.
High-level financial overview for the quarter.
The total revenue was $613 million up 7% on a reported basis and up 8% on a local currency basis from the third quarter of 2013 and in line with our expectations when you take into consideration a much stronger dollar.
In the quarter FX created a $6 million year-over-year headwind something we had not anticipated nor had much of the country anticipated when we gave guidance last quarter.
When you exclude the mortgage market headwinds and you include acquisitions revenue grew 10% in local currency and 9% in U.S.
dollars.
The adjusted operating margin was 26.4% up from 26.2% a year ago.
Adjusted EPS was $1.01 up 12% from $0.90 last year and up versus our guidance of $0.96 to $0.99 for the quarter.
U.S.
mortgage market is really unfolding much as we anticipated earlier this year.
As we enter fourth quarter and 2015 those headwinds do abate.
Even with the many global uncertainties we face I remain optimistic about our growth prospects not just for 2014 but also for 2015.
I'll give you some texture around that before we go to questions and answers.
Here's a few highlights by business unit I typically give you and I'll go through some of those and then John will take over and give you some of the financial details.
USIS continues to drive growth through its enterprise-wide sales channels as well as capitalizing on several strategic initiatives.
During the quarter we signed a multiyear multimillion dollar agreement to provide online ID proofing services for the Social Security Administration.
This is a great win as it further establishes Equifax as an important service provider enabling the Social Security Administration to provide consumers with access to their information in a secure online environment.
Our initiatives in auto retail banking insurance and telco in addition to new initiatives in mortgage are driving solid mid-single-digit organic growth for USIS.
Year-to-date core non-mortgage market growth is performing as we have expected and talked to you about in the past.
We continue to find strong market demand for super scores.
We've talked about super scores before with you.
That's where we take combined -- we combine different data assets including our data assets third-party data assets to create a unique decisioning solution for our customers.
This is a great example of leveraging D360 to fuel new areas of growth.
As you know in this area our customers need to grow but also need to control their risks and many times their best opportunities for growth are typically with younger consumers who have limited credit history.
With the credit database only hit rates and risk assessment on younger consumers is generally very low due typically to a limited amount of credit history.
By augmenting the available credit information with these additional data assets and sophisticated analytics we can improve the risk assessment with a single scoring solution for both financial and nonfinancial customers and this has been very very well received by the auto vertical in the past few months.
Our Identity and Fraud Solutions continue to add strong organic growth within USIS.
Leveraging our strong partnership with the centers for Medicaid and Medicare services we have secured another multimillion dollar opportunity for monitoring Medicare and Medicaid providers.
Really that whole opportunity was opened up with the relationship that EWS has created in the last 18 months with CMS.
And with major credit card companies within USIS we won a cloud-based ID authentication solution.
During the quarter we also signed a 2-year multimillion dollar agreement with an indirect reseller in the direct-to-consumer market.
This is one of the largest deals we've signed of this type with annual revenues exceeding $20 million.
For 2014 we expect USIS to deliver core non-mortgage market organic growth rate consistent with our long-term growth rates that we've talked to you about in the past.
Moving on to International.
They continue to leverage NPI and their key strategic initiative is to drive growth and to drive deeper market penetration.
Total revenue in International was a bit lighter than we expected this quarter driven primarily by a stronger dollar that I mentioned early on and the fact that the revenue ramp in TDX is now moving into early 2015.
Maybe I'll just pause there for a moment and talk about TDX.
TDX is a great strategic asset for us.
It's performing very well.
I'm as bullish today as I was when we bought the asset back in the early part of this year.
But we're just getting used to the forecasting model for TDX and we missed that by about a quarter or so so we will accelerate its growth in 2015.
We've also identified a number of attractive opportunities which are expected to contribute to strong organic growth in 2015 not just in TDX's current footprint but also our ability to take that asset to the U.S.
Canada and other geographies.
And I'll be more than happy to talk about that in the Q&amp;A and any questions you might have.
In Canada our recent innovation for data breach services has become a great success.
During the quarter we signed 2 1-year contracts that are expected to contribute over $4 million in revenue.
Based on the initial success we've had with this new product in Canada we're developing a strategy to expand the service to other geographic markets.
We're also making great progress in penetrating the telecommunications market in Latin America.
In Peru we recently signed a 2-year multimillion dollar contract for a wide range of services including our InterConnect decisioning platform fraud screening platform analytical and marketing services ID verification new account application support and collection services so a broad array of products to a -- customers we know very very well in the telecommunications arena.
Through partnerships in NPI Workforce Solutions continues to find opportunities to grow the available records in the Work Number database.
We're well on our way to achieving our short-term target of 250 million records and have already identified additional opportunities for records which will enable us to exceed this goal.
Total records for the Work Number database are now at 248.6 million records.
We now have over 4 000 companies contributing their employment and income information into our database.
Dann and his team continue to do a very very good job there.
Our analytical dashboard that supports companies' compliance management requirements under the Affordable Care Act has been very successful and we've talked about that in the past with you.
We are significantly ahead of our targets for revenue and for record contribution to the Work Number database in 2014 with over 215 clients signing up for this service.
And again in many cases they're not only buying the analytics but they're giving us the Work Number database as well so it's a double win.
We continue to deliver solid double-digit growth in our targeted non-mortgage verticals particularly auto card and home equity lending within EWS.
As our higher margin verify revenue growth outpaces the employer services growth operating margins in Workforce Solutions continue to expand nicely.
During the quarter in EWS we have signed another contract with a major credit card company for verification of income to be incorporated into their credit line increase program.
You've heard us talk about that in the past.
That solution for credit line increases continues to gain great traction for EWS.
We've been experiencing increasing interest in our verification of income services as lenders continue to seek better solutions to further strengthen their underwriting policies.
Workforce Solutions' core non-mortgage market organic growth continues to be well above their long-term targeted growth range of 7% to 9%.
PSol is executing well on its core business initiatives while making good progress on its strategic transformation.
In the core business they're ahead of their targets for churn and customer lifetime value in addition to a year-over-year increase in ARPU which has enabled them to deliver strong organic growth and operating margins.
In the indirect market we've signed a number of new contracts and have launched a few beta tests for some very large prospects.
The pipeline is robust on the indirect side and we believe that the team's efforts will successfully reposition PSol for good growth in 2015.
Business unit leaders have accomplished a lot this year offsetting mortgage market headwinds tackling change in market dynamics integrating acquisitions and positioning their businesses for continued growth and margin expansion.
We're now through the toughest part of the mortgage headwinds.
Looking forward to the fourth quarter and beyond we fully expect our non-mortgage products and services to continue delivering top line growth consistent with our long-term business model of 7% to 10%.
And with that John the financials please.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
As Rick mentioned our performance this quarter was strong.
A lot of hard work had to be accomplished but everyone contributed to the effort.
As before I'll be referring to the financial results from continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
It is important to highlight that FX became a greater headwind during the quarter than we had originally expected for the quarter.
Our financial performance was adversely impacted by the accelerated depreciation of currencies versus the U.S.
dollar.
For the quarter compared to the third quarter of 2013 revenues were negatively impacted by approximately $6 million and adjusted EPS was negatively impacted by about $0.02 a share.
Due to a number of discrete items our lower tax rate benefited adjusted EPS by approximately $0.03 a share.
Netting the tax benefit with a negative impact of FX results in a $0.01 contribution to our reported adjusted EPS of $1.01.
Earlier this year we indicated that our stock buyback should accelerate over the course of the year and we expected to exit 2014 with a lower share count.
During the quarter we repurchased 1.5 million shares for $113 million and share repurchases will continue into the fourth quarter.
Now let me turn to the business units' financial performance.
U.S.
Information Solutions revenue was $279 million up 3% when compared to the third quarter of 2013.
Online Information Solutions revenue was $206 million up 4% when compared to the year-ago period.
Mortgage Solutions revenue of $28 million was flat compared to Q3 2013.
This compares favorably to the Mortgage Bankers Application Index which was down 26% in the third quarter.
Financial Marketing Services revenue was $45 million up 2% when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The adjusted operating margin for U.S.
Information Solutions was 40.3% up from 36.2% in the third quarter of 2013.
This reflects positive product mix as well as good expense control.
International's revenue was $158 million up 18% on a reported basis and up 22% on a local currency basis.
Acquisitions contributed approximately 16 points of the local currency growth.
By region Europe's revenue was $70 million up 51% in U.S.
dollars and up 40% in local currency driven by the acquisition of TDX and mid-single-digit organic growth in our core business.
Latin America's revenue was $49 million flat in U.S.
dollars but up 18% in local currency driven by double-digit organic growth in decision solutions analytical services and Personal Solutions.
Canada revenue was $39 million flat in U.S.
dollars but up 5% in local currency.
For the third quarter International's operating margin was 23.5% up from 22.5% in the second quarter of 2014.
Workforce Solutions' revenue was $122 million for the quarter up 6% when compared to the third quarter of 2013.
Verification Services with revenue of $76 million was up 10% when compared to the same quarter of 2013.
Employer Services revenue was $47 million up 1% compared to last year.
The Workforce Solutions operating margin was 32.5% compared to 29.9% in Q3 of 2013.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $54 million up 3%.
Growth was driven primarily by Canadian subscription and indirect revenue primarily through TrustedID.
Operating margin was 31.6% compared to 26.3% in Q3 2013 largely driven by reduced marketing expense in the quarter.
Finally our general corporate expense was up this quarter from the year-ago period due to increased incentive compensation and timing of some investments.
2014 year-to-date general corporate expense is up only less than 1%.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Thanks John.
As we enter the fourth quarter we're ending this year pretty much as we anticipated at the start of the year.
The mortgage headwinds are largely behind us really abating in mid-third quarter.
We've got a number of opportunities on the horizon that will continue to drive both top and bottom line growth.
For the fourth quarter assuming current exchange rates we expect reported revenue to be between $615 million and $620 million and adjusted EPS to be between $0.99 and $1.03.
This assumes an FX headwind of approximately $11 million on revenue and $0.02 to $0.03 on adjusted EPS.
Also as I mentioned earlier the anticipated revenue contribution from TDX accelerates as we go into 2015 versus the year-end 2014 that we originally thought when we gave guidance at the end of the second quarter.
So for the full year of 2014 we expect EPS to finish in the range of $3.86 to $3.96 -- $3.90 versus our prior guidance on our last call of $3.83 to $3.91.
At this time our optimistic outlook for 2015 has not changed.
We expect the mortgage market to return to a more normal mix of home purchases refinancing activity and the increase in home equity lending.
We also believe that our strategic initiatives outside of the mortgage market will continue delivering revenue and earnings growth consistent with our long-term business model.
Our confidence is supported first and foremost by broad-based execution across all of our businesses throughout 2013 and '14 where the swings of the mortgage market were their greatest.
In addition our core non-mortgage market organic growth rate continues to be in the targeted range of 6% to 8%.
Finally the integration of our strategic acquisitions made in 2014 will contribute to organic growth in 2015.
All these are -- while we are not without challenges this team has demonstrated their ability to continue to deliver on our commitments to our shareholders.
So with that we'd love to operator turn it over to questions.
If you'd please open up to our callers.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to our first question from George Mihalos of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to start off on TDX.
Just maybe John specifically can you call out the revenue contribution from TDX in the quarter how you're thinking about that for '14? And then as we -- or for fourth quarter I should say.
And then if I'm not mistaken the growth profile of that business was somewhere around I think you guys were talking about it being somewhere around 20%.
Has anything changed there as you look out over the long term? George this is Rick.
I'm not sure if you asked the question to myself or of John but let me see if I can tackle that.
We do break out that it's 16% of the local currency International growth.
TDX is a great asset and I said that earlier.
I'm as convinced it's a great asset today as I was then.
What we learned is the forecasting model from the time you actually engage a client to the time you sign a contract and then get the revenue is a little longer than we anticipated.
So revenue we had originally forecasted when we bought the business I think it was in January of this year by the time we get our heads around it and build a forecasting model in late first quarter it's turned out to be a little slower than we had anticipated.
But in the current footprint it is going to be a great asset for us and in new footprint i.e.
Canada U.S.
and Latin America.
And more importantly the combination of Inffinix which we bought in Mexico City with now TDX is already starting to generate some strong interest in new geographies.
So hopefully that helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just a timing issue nothing else? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just shifting gears a little bit to USIS.
Again the contribution margin or I should say sort of the incremental EBIT year-over-year continues to be growing at a rate that is higher than revenue growth.
Can you maybe talk about that a little bit? What's driving that? And how should we be thinking about that going forward? Yes John alluded to that a little bit in his commentary there.
It has to do with mix of products within OSIS -- OCIS and it's just that our core online credit product is -- which has huge margins as you know and very large incremental margin is growing at a faster rate than overall USCIS -- or USIS.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And maybe I'll sneak one last one in.
Just in terms of PSol you're talking about the business changing a little bit there.
Are you comfortable with PSol being able to grow in 2015 just given some of the changes you're making there? Absolutely George.
And I mentioned that in our last call that Trey and his team have done a great job of kind of identifying there's a new world out there in this free market and there's 3 pillars to his growth.
One is to maximize the growth potential and larger potential in its core business.
Two is to take this asset we bought god I think it was a year ago called TrustedID which is the indirect market and grow that at significant rates and he's doing that.
The pipeline as I mentioned in my comments is really really strong.
Pipeline of -- and have closed some of those deals as well.
And the pipeline for revenue in fourth quarter and next year remains very very strong.
The third lever is he's got to figure out a way to not -- to play in the free market and he's doing that as well.
So I mentioned I think it was in the second quarter call George that those guys have done a great job over the last I think 2 years of growing beyond our long-term growth model.
We talked about them being upper single digits growth model and they've been growing it double digit.
And I mentioned on the call -- in the second quarter call that yes I'm convinced that these guys will get back to their long-term growth model next year.
Our next question will come from Manav Patnaik of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Greg stepping in for Manav.
Just following up on PSol.
You talked about TrustedID as the way to go after the indirect space.
Could you also provide some color on the strategy in that remaining direct-to-consumer space and what you're doing there? Yes.
So again it's -- as how [ph] I answered for George 3 pillars of growth.
One is to continue to just maximize your growth by minimizing churn maximizing ARPU continue to launch new products in the old core business.
Things he's done very very well now for whatever it's been 4 5 years.
Just continue that and that will yield growth for us.
That's going to be as I talked about before in the lower single digit growth rates.
You then couple that with TrustedID growing at strong double-digit growth rates and then finding a way to play in the free market.
You aggregate those 3 together and you get a strong upper single digit growth rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know commercial is now wrapped back into USIS and International but can you talk about how those offerings have been performing? And is that still a market segment? Or you think you can get that high single digit growth? We gave you in the press release historical figures for commercial and you can kind of work with those and build some models.
We're not going to break that out going forward.
It's a very very small part of our business as you know but it still remains important for us.
Yes I'm convinced it's a growth business as a part of USIS.
And then the main reason I put it back into USCIS was that most of the business comes with what we call KCP or large clients and USCIS had those relationships.
So I'm convinced taking the product offerings we have with the pipes that we have in USCIS will yield good growth going forward yes.
Research Division</strong> And consolidating that commercial business into International just to check doesn't have any impact on the 25% margin that you expect for International ending the year? Haven't done that calculation.
No.
The answer is no.
I'm being told no.
It's very small.
It's very small in the scheme of things.
And we'll move on to our next question from David Togut of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Could you dig into the underlying unit growth and unit pricing trends year-over-year that you saw in OLCIS? You're looking for volume or for price or both? Research Division</strong> Both volume and price if you have it.
Okay.
I don't have it.
Do you have that Jeff? Give us a second David.
I don't have that at my fingertips.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let me shift to the next question then.
Mortgage has been a headwind for the past year or so but rates on the 10-year Treasury have been dropping very sharply over the last few months.
Is there a case to be made that mortgage actually could once again become a growth driver in 2015? Yes I think there's a case.
It's a convergence of a couple of different things.
I think obviously it's unemployment moving down home prices going up.
The 10-year which the mortgage rates are based upon continue to stay at these historically low rates.
There's also I think David you probably read a lot of discussion right now in D.C.
about changing the regulation driven by Fannie and Freddie on the underwriting standards that the banks would have to adhere to.
If they loosen those standards it potentially opens up obviously a larger population of credit risk to the mortgage market.
So keep your eye on that too.
If that happens that's obviously a potential good catalyst for us.
The other thing we're seeing already and I think it's -- speak from memory but there's an uptick in home equity lending which has been virtually nonexistent since the recession.
And I think in the third quarter it grew something like 21%.
So it's still very low numbers compared to historical standards of the total volume but that should be an uptick for us going forward as well.
Research Division</strong> Just final question for me.
Can you give us a sense of consumer credit demand by major geographies served? How you see that evolving over the next 12 to 18 months? Yes.
Let's think about that.
So in Latin America if that's what you're referring to if you're referring to the International footprint versus just USIS David? Is that correct? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
Latin America is still immature so -- in the use of credit products so it's continued to expand and continue to grow even though we're reading about things like recessions and instability in some governments like Argentina.
So I continue to see medium-term and long-term growth prospects in the Latin America region to be strong.
In the U.S.
it really depends on the credit spectrum and the verticals.
You heard us talk about in the past automotive continues to be strong in the use of credit and the growth in credit.
Just mentioned 21% growth in home equity lending in the third quarter.
I think that's going to be strong for us.
I think you're going to see a switch from headwinds in mortgage to growth next year.
The credit card lending business is starting to see some signs of growth in the U.S.
which is encouraging as well.
Canada I'd describe as stable.
U.K.
I'd describe as stable to some good growth.
And I'd describe Spain even though we continue to do a good job in Spain as a troubled economy right now.
Hopefully that helps.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Should I follow-up with John on the unit numbers after the call? Please do.
No David I got it here now.
Yes the volume was up 14% in the quarter and the unit price was down approximately 5%.
Research Division</strong> And that was just mix shift? Correct.
And we'll move on to our next question from Dan Perlin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just help me -- you threw out a lot of numbers there.
Can you just help me reconcile kind of the Europe number? Because if I take out the currency benefit and I take out what you said for TDX it looks like that market's down close to 9%.
And I didn't -- it's not kind of what I heard so I just want to make sure I'm doing the right math for one.
So you're looking for the core organic non -- core organic growth rate in Europe? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes core organic FX adjusted.
Like the core business seems like it's down 9% based on that math.
That's not right no.
LLC Research Division</strong> And it didn't sound -- you had about almost a $5 million benefit on FX I think in Europe.
And then it sounded like it's 16 points.
There's like $21 million for TDX.
That puts you at $44 million.
Is that right? You got that? 22% local [indiscernible] acquisition.
International Europe he's asking right? Just Europe.
Yes just Europe.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I'm just trying to pinpoint how Europe is kind of shaking out for everybody.
Who's got that? LLC Research Division</strong> And I can follow up with that.
Let me tell you I don't -- it's not going to be down 9%.
It's up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll follow up with the details.
I felt like something wasn't right there but the numbers just kind of spoke to that based on what I heard.
Well Dan let's continue through on the last statement.
We'll come back...
Mid single-digit organic growth in Europe taking out TDX.
In Europe.
How about FX local currency? LLC Research Division</strong> And if you take out FX then it's another $5 million.
My recollection was it's about 5% or 6% local currency growth rate organically in Europe but we'll confirm that.
Is that right Jeff? That is right that is right Dan.
It's a 5% to 6% growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to kind of circle back.
It sounds like the good news is mortgage is as you say the headwind's abating.
Things are turning.
We've got a HELOC market that's kind of new and different from last time around.
But what I'm wondering is can you remind us to the extent that those -- both new refined HELOCs start to actually turn into something that's positive I don't want to get caught off guard on the mix in the margin.
I feel like that would be negative to margins in aggregate.
Is that a true statement or not? No no it's not.
I'm fairly agnostic.
The lower-margin business tends to be the tri-merge businesses.
We got expense associated with that.
But I mean home refinancing versus HELOC they're a good solid margin business for EWS as well as USCIS.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then in terms of refi versus new origination the refi is lower because you're just pulling the kind of abridged tax return.
Is that right? Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one.
When you look at the type of credit decisioning that your bank partners have in the United States like the insight that you're seeing there can you just give us a sense of where you think their lending appetite is just more broadly in the states? Yes I'd say with the uncertainty in mortgage they tend to be -- continue to be very very cautious on -- in the mortgage market and I don't blame them until we get regulatory clarity coming out of Washington.
As I mentioned before I think they're jumping back in in a very aggressive way on the automotive lending.
Now I'd say on credit card they're starting to go down subprime Dan but they're going down subprime with very small lines of credit versus going down market with higher -- lower credit scores and higher lines.
So when you're seeing lines $500 $600 $750 for the subprime market but they're getting back in the subprime credit card lending now.
Our next question comes from Paul Ginocchio of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at Consumer Financial Marketing or Financial Marketing Services it looks like it decelerated from the second quarter of high single digits to the third quarter of low single digits.
Just wondering what drove that particularly in light of your -- just your comments.
It seems like banks are somewhat trying to find new customers.
I just would have thought that number would've done a little bit better in this sort of improving job market.
Well think about it this way.
In the Marketing Services there's really 3 lines of business.
They're not kind of combined so there's a little bit of noise in there.
There is the core which you're familiar with the CMS business Credit Marketing Services.
There's the IXI business which you're familiar with.
And now there's the Marketing Services business we have in commercial which we call internally MDS.
So you got 3 things going on there.
MDS is down year-on-year and you got good strong growth in IXI and overall strong growth in traditional USIS or USCIS marketing business.
Research Division</strong> So I guess the takeaway is that it's just the commercial business that's weak and we're still seeing banks reaching out and trying to find new customers.
That's not changed? Yes correct.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Jeffrey of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Rick appreciate the color on some of the USIS wins especially Social Security and CMS.
When you combine sort of the tailwind and the momentum you've got there with the anniversary of some of these faster-growing acquisitions it strikes me that at least maybe the high end of the 6% to 8% core non-mortgage organic is a reasonable expectation for '15.
Can you just kind of comment on that? Yes I -- as I mentioned in my closing comments the team continues to execute at a very high level.
We've for a number of quarters or years now been in that range.
I expect us to clearly be in that range in fourth quarter and clearly be in that range in 2015.
Fine-tuning where in that range is a little too early at this time but as we get into 2015 I'll give you more color at that time.
But just know I remain committed that we're going to be in that range of 7% to 10%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are there any sort of intrinsic or cyclical headwinds? Because it seems like not only winning new business but the nature of the business is becoming more diversified from an end market and customer perspective.
Are there any offsets at least qualitatively you can think about to the new business you're winning? Or you're just kind of being cautious because it's not even November yet? No it's not -- I don't think it's being cautious.
It's a business model we're committed to and it's early for me to sit here and give you any additional color on '15 and beyond.
The model we've given you before which is organic of 6% to 8% 7% to 10% total of 25 basis points margin it's just a little too early.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you just comment a little bit on the pipeline? It seems like you're winning again more maybe government agency business.
Is that -- if you look at the pipeline of prospective deals that's out there is the nature of the business or the characteristics of the customers materially different today than it might have been a couple of years ago? No I think the one thing you hit on there is when we won the CMS business in EWS that opened up contacts within the federal government which we had not had before.
And as a result of that we took advantage of that built a vertical focus to capitalize on that.
I don't think it'll materially change the revenue mix of who we are going forward 3 4 5 years but it's nice significant wins in an arena 2 or 3 years ago we didn't do business with.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess last from a capital allocation standpoint good to see you're buying back the stock.
Are you still in the market sort of hunting for acquisitions? Or would you characterize that as being opportunistic? Yes absolutely and the model hasn't changed.
Most of our focus is on core organic growth and when we get the right strategic acquisitions we'll do so.
John talked about in his comments buying back 113 million of shares in the third quarter.
You should expect us short term in the fourth quarter to continue to be in the market buying back shares.
But we'll also because of our model and how much cash we throw off also be looking for the right deals.
And our model is 1 to 2 points of acquisition growth per year so that hasn't changed.
And we'll move on to our next question from Shlomo Rosenbaum of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I just want to work through the currency to make sure that we understand it properly.
Was the $5.6 million of currency headwinds a year-over-year headwind? Or is that a difference from what you guys were expecting at the time you gave guidance in July? It was year-over-year but the bulk of that happened since the forecast was given in July.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when you're looking at your margin profile internally versus what you were expecting are you looking at kind of an OPM of 26.8% adding back the $4.3 million in terms of your operational look at the business? You're saying if you adjust for FX what would the operational...
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Yes.
Right.
I'm getting a 26.8% if I adjust for that.
Is that kind of the way you guys were looking at it as you were entering the year or excuse me entering the quarter? That's kind of the target and that's where you guys kind of feel like you were absent the headwinds.
It sounds like you've done the math.
We don't get the whole granularity where you adjust operating margin based upon FX but I trust your math is right.
We could do that math.
But the margin profile we've committed to be up 25 basis points a year.
You're going to have some noise Shlomo quarter-to-quarter.
I think that weren't we up -- what was the margin this quarter versus last year? Up 20 basis points so largely in line with what we guided to.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what was the non-mortgage underlying growth so constant currency non-mortgage growth? So you said it was between the 6% to 8%.
Can you give us a more exact number? Yes it was 6.4%.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what was in that other income line? It was like around $3.5 million.
What was that comprised of? It's just basically generally net of interest income and interest expense in general right? And it was up this year basically because last year we had losses due to some activities in Latin America and repatriation of funds that didn't occur this year.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So I'm not really following what that was.
There were some kind of gain that can't -- there was a gain in other income excluding the interest expense.
Was that interest income that you're talking about? Yes interest income net of expense and then there's some other FX gains that occur in there.
But the reason it's up year-on-year is because we had losses last year related to some repatriation of funds and that's why it's lower last year than normal.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you don't mind I was going to sneak in some housekeeping.
What tax rate are you assuming for the fourth quarter? I couldn't hear what you said Shlomo.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Tax rate? Tax rate about 35%.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> 35% okay so consistent.
And then just anything else from the legal settlements? In other words do you still have the right to use whatever software that you guys want and things like that? Or is there anything lingering or this just settles it and that's it? I'll jump into the legal settlement in a second and go back.
On tax rate we've always guided our tax rate over an annual basis will be between 35% and 37%.
If you look back to second quarter we're actually over 37% 37.2%.
A little under that number this quarter but back in the range next quarter.
So for the full year John we expect tax rate to be in that range of 35% to 37%.
Absolutely yes.
Back to the legal settlement ask your question one more time Shlomo specifically? Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just there was a legal settlement and it seemed to circle around the rights to use the software.
So is there anything that's lingering that kind of hampers you? Or did that settlement entitle you to use whatever software you need right now? None whatsoever.
This was a contract that dates back to 2002.
The team has worked through it.
We have the right to use the software for a period of time going forward.
It will have no impact on our business operations.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Jeff Meuler of Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess Rick you talked about 2 things in terms of moving to new geos TDX and I think data breach business.
I know that's always a big driver for you guys.
Can you just provide a more comprehensive recap on what the key initiatives are right now in terms of taking other products beyond those 2 to new geos? Yes thank you.
Let me see if I can clarify that Jeff.
On TDX it's clearly taking the TDX and the Inffinix and combining those as one platform bring them to the U.S.
and Rudy and his team are well on their way to doing that.
We have resources on the ground in the U.S.
We expect to launch some offerings in 2015.
Canada has a very similar need that's not being served today.
So those are 2 -- and we talked about Australia.
There was a small business in Australia for TDX and we bought it.
And I think I mentioned on the last earnings call they won some really nice contracts in Australia expanding our presence in Australia.
And the benefit there is we get to know the market in Australia and now look for things like analytics decisioning platforms and other opportunities in places like Australia.
The data breach is really taking a skinnied-down offering that works very well in Canada.
The team up there has now closed multiple data breach deals in the last year or so and taking that to other current places where we operate in the International footprint not new places.
The third area for geographical expansion will be -- the next area will be just looking at expanding through acquisition our operations outside of the 19 countries or so we operate in today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the PSol the third point to your growth strategy in terms of playing in a free or freemium market is the model going to be an ad-supported one? Or are you thinking more about allegiance? So just how are you thinking about monetizing a free market? Great question.
Let me get back to the question I can't remember the last -- earlier.
But if you think about PSol going forward the goal is to get it back to that upper single digit growth business starting next year.
We'll do that by just optimizing the core churn ARPU new products so on and so forth and the indirect.
We have yet to develop the full strategy for the freemium market.
So when that is fleshed out we'll let you know but I don't need that to get to the upper single digit growth rate next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally corporate expense.
I know that you guys had previously been signaling for it to be somewhat variable quarter-to-quarter.
But was Q3 roughly in line with your internal expectations? And then directionally what should we be thinking about for Q4? The answer for the third quarter is yes definitely in line with our expectations.
Yes.
And year-to-date as we said it's pretty much flat year-over-year right so...
Research Division</strong> Yes but -- so what should we think about for Q4? Because I mean I think it was up like $8 million sequentially.
Should we be thinking about a similar absolute dollar level for Q4? Or should it come down somewhat? Just how -- any direction you could help -- give us available...
It should come down in Q4.
And we'll move on to our next question from Jeff Volshteyn of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I only have like a couple of housekeeping questions.
In regards to the fourth quarter guidance could we get into the details the components of revenue growth what's implied for core non-mortgage constant currency growth M&amp;A contribution mortgage impact and the share count? I couldn't write those down fast enough.
Let me just take off a few.
We're not going to get into the growth rates at the business unit level at this juncture for the fourth quarter.
But in total we would expect the core organic non-mortgage growth rate to again continue to be in the range that we've committed to of 6% to 8%.
On the share count you should expect us again to be buying back shares of -- at a similar pace that we did in the third quarter.
So with that you could do the calculation on the share count as we exit the year.
What was your third and fourth question? Research Division</strong> M&amp;A contribution and the mortgage impact.
Okay.
On the M&amp;A I don't expect any additional M&amp;A impact beyond the acquisitions we've already closed earlier this year.
And on the mortgage impact I think the mortgage market expectation for this year for the fourth quarter Jeff has it moved closer to flat market itself? Yes.
Yes it should be moving closer.
I think it was down -- the bankers' index was down 26% in the third quarter and that's going to move closer to flat as you exit the year.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from George Gregory of Exane.
Research Division</strong> I had 3 questions if I may.
I'll take them each in turn.
Firstly in terms of OCIS could I check you saw a modest acceleration from Q2 to Q3.
Against that you saw an abatement in the mortgage headwind.
In underlying terms was there any change in trend there? Versus the second quarter is that your question Greg? Research Division</strong> Correct yes.
No no I'd say that -- we saw -- we talked about -- earlier someone asked the question about margin in USCIS and I talked about the fact that our core credit product online credit products within OCIS grew nicely and that had high margins.
So if anything was unusual that grew at a little faster rate.
That was really driven by the fact that our -- we call you're familiar with this Greg I know you're from the U.K.
KCP key client program which are some of our larger more strategic customers.
Both FI private-label credit card issuers and telco grew at a very nice rate in the quarter.
So -- but those are 2 trends that have been occurring now for a few quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second in terms of Latin America in particular in Brazil is it fair to say that you're now albeit off of a small base taking some share from your larger competitor? And on that subject is there -- is that in particular on the consumer side or the business side? Any color you could add to that please.
Greg since we don't consolidate that asset at this juncture I can't go into this level of detail but I'll tell you this.
We spent a lot of time down there as you might guess with the team and continue to like the asset medium term short term and long term.
So I'll leave it at that.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And final question we've talked quite a bit about PSol already but any particular comments on the competitive environment there in particular in the freemium space? I think it's here to stay.
And I applaud the team.
They're facing the reality that the market shifted pretty quickly a few quarters ago.
And rather than ignoring it they've stood up and created a modified business plan that will get us to that double -- that upper single-digit growth rate.
So freemium is here to stay.
I don't see it going away.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just to finish.
When do you expect to have decided upon a strategy to play in the freemium market? I would think as we get on the phone with you guys in the first quarter we'll lay that out for you.
Jeff? And as we have no further questions I would like to turn it back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
With that I'd like to thank everybody for their time and their interest in Equifax.
And with that we'll terminate the call.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude our conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations and with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and John Gamble Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in filings with the SEC including our 2013 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax adjusted operating revenue and adjusted operating margin that will be adjusted for certain items which affect the comparability of the underlying operational performance.
Adjusted operating revenue includes the collection of certain reserved 2012 billings from 2013 revenue.
Adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and the associated tax effects as well as certain other items.
The other items excluded for 2013 are the collection of certain reserved 2012 billings which occurred during the fourth quarter of 2013 the resource realignment charge and the impairment of our investment in Boa Vista.
In 2014 we also excluded the associated tax effects in addition to the impact of a settlement of a legal dispute over certain software license agreements.
The adjusted operating margin also excludes certain items.
For 2013 adjusted operating margin excludes the collection of certain reserved 2012 billings and the resource realignment charge.
For 2014 the adjusted operating margin excludes the legal settlement regarding the dispute over software license agreements.
All of these measures are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Also refer -- please refer to our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.investor.equifax.com for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff for that very detailed introduction that was great and thanks everyone for joining us this morning.
As I always do I'll go through the high-level review of the fourth quarter.
Jeff -- or John will then go through the financial.
I'll come back with an outlook for 2015 then we'll go to Q&amp;A.
We finished 2014 in very strong fashion and we carry some good momentum as we move into 2015.
Looking back at last year both reported growth and constant currency growth in the fourth quarter finished at their highest level of the year which is always a good thing.
For the quarter fourth quarter 2014 total revenue was $625 million up 8% on a reported basis and up 10% on a local currency basis from the fourth quarter 2013.
In the quarter FX created a $13 million year-over-year headwind which was a significant increase from the third quarter headwind of $6 million.
I think you all are intimately aware of what's going on with the euro the ruble the pound and others.
Core non-mortgage market growth accelerated nicely to 8% in the quarter ending the year at 7% solidly in the range of our long-term growth model.
Consistent with the view we've articulated throughout the year the mortgage market was no longer a headwind in the fourth quarter.
As a result in 2015 and beyond we'll focus our attention on the constant currency organic growth rate.
What I mean by that is we've broken out the past few years -- because of volatility we've broken out mortgage impact and we'll no longer do that because we as I'll talk about later on we expect the mortgage market to be relatively benign year-on-year when we look at 2015.
The adjusted operating margin for the fourth quarter was 26.5% in line with the guidance that we gave you for the quarter.
Our adjusted EPS was $1.02 up 12% from $0.91 a year ago and it was at the upper end of the range that we've guided to.
Also given our strong performance for the quarter and the year we've announced a 16% increase in the dividend moving from $0.25 a share per quarter to $0.29 a share.
As I always do we transition into some of the business units highlights that I think are noteworthy.
First let's start with USIS.
They accelerated their revenue and their margin -- and expanded their operating margins throughout 2015 and they're poised to deliver an even stronger top line growth and margin expansion in 2015 than they delivered in 2014.
A couple of highlights.
Decision 360 which we've talked to you a lot about continues to deliver unique value for our customers and drive revenue growth for us.
A couple of interesting data points.
In 2014 if you take our top 100 customers on average they use now up from 1 product to 3 different unique data assets that we have which is really adding value to them and to us.
It's even a better story when you look at our KCP accounts.
We've talked to you about that the key client program accounts about 8 of our largest customers in the United States.
On average they are now consuming 4.5 products unique data assets that we have.
And again anytime we can bundle the unique data assets together to add value to a client they win and we win.
So Rudy Ploder and his team have done a great job of not just monetizing these assets but making it easy for our customers to consume.
Sticking with USIS.
We continue to make great progress in the auto sector where we provide not only credit information to our auto customers but also adding now employment income verification.
In 2014 revenues from our auto group grew by 17% almost 3x the rate of the market growth.
We expect that trend to continue in 2015 as well.
IXI had a very successful year returning to strong double-digit growth driven by new product innovation and deeper penetration with some of our largest most important customers.
One of our more significant and unique fraud initiatives ID management and authentication continue to position us well with large government contract opportunities particularly with the federal agencies such as Social Security Administration and the IRS.
In 2014 we processed over 516 million identity verifications within the government and across all verticals in the U.S.
alone.
Through the concerted effort of USIS enterprise selling has become an integral part of our go-to-market initiative.
We developed a detailed strategy for each vertical including pricing product innovation distribution incentive compensation enabling us to further accelerate market growth and penetration.
On to International we had an outstanding execution of the NPI initiatives.
They delivered a vitality index of 14% fueling solid growth in virtually every market where we operate.
We anticipate revenue growth to be at the upper end of the long-term range for 2015 which is 7% to 10% and we expect margins to expand nicely throughout the course of 2015.
Some highlights there.
Single-digit growth in our core Information Solutions product offerings coupled with double-digit growth in Decision Solutions and Personal Solutions resulted in another year of strong organic growth and a much stronger market position as we enter 2015.
U.K.
exited the year with double-digit growth and very high-single-digit growth rate for the year significantly outpacing the economic environment growth.
Particularly for us it was a double-digit growth in decision analytics and Personal Solutions.
That's a trend that's continued now for 3 or 4 years in the U.K.
Canada exited the year with very healthy double-digit constant currency growth rate primarily driven by their core Information Solution product offerings.
Those are 2 great examples of where the team is executing at a level enabling them to grow at significant levels above and beyond what the economy is contributing.
Latin America delivered broad-based double-digit constant currency growth across virtually all major product lines in all countries.
In Russia we added over 20 million records to the credit database and have significantly expanded the data assets in our fraud prevention system.
We should talk a little bit about Russia we've got some questions.
Obviously the sanctions and the ruble will impact our view of Russia going forward at least for 2015.
Finally all of the centers of excellences that support our business units especially in this case International have dedicated significant resources to ensure the successful integration of TDX.
And I believe right now the integration of TDX is largely behind us.
TDX and the COEs will now focus their immediate attention on the very large opportunity with the U.K.
government that we announced in December.
For that project which is going well there'll be required IT developments in order to meet the security requirements of the U.K.
government.
We're in essence standing up the environment to handle what the government needs.
It's going as planned as scheduled.
We expect that environment to be stood up sometime in the late second quarter to mid-third quarter.
Start getting the data into system at the time it takes us some time to format the data cleanse the data and then work with our partners the collection agencies.
We expect to monetize -- start monetizing that win some time in the late fourth quarter and ramp up really nicely in 2016.
So that's going as planned.
On the Workforce Solutions.
They had a blockbuster year in 2014.
Despite significant headwinds from the mortgage market Workforce Solutions delivered strong double-digit non-mortgage market organic growth once again and 270 basis points of margin expansion for the year.
We're expecting to get another really solid good growth here in 2015 for EWS as well as meaningful margin expansion once again that's the great thing about those models.
Our Workforce Solutions exited the fourth -- exited the year and the fourth quarter with core non-mortgage market organic growth rate of over 17% remarkable.
For the year core non-mortgage market growth was 13% driven by strong double-digit growth in auto government and preemployment.
We now have over 4 300 companies across the United States contributing employment and income information to The Work Number database.
Our data and analytics initiatives which we talked to you about now for a couple years are key drivers of revenue growth in both 2014 and 2015.
In fact we are looking at 35% to 40% growth in our analytics product line across EWS in 2015.
In 2014 we signed 227 contracts with companies who need to assure their compliance obligations under the Affordable Care Act.
In addition to the incremental revenues customers are also contributing their employment and income information to The Work Number database.
So it is two bites of the apple if you will making money on the analytics for ACA as well as building the database at a much faster rate.
We're also developing a number of other innovative analytical solutions to enlighten employers about the demographics and the profile of their workforce truly taking EWS and bringing it to the level of any other business we have around in the world if not even higher in the area of analytics.
We've also broadened our relationship with CMS leveraging our historical records to provide employment income verification on individuals and alleviate their need to use alternative more costly sources of information.
We're expecting our CMS relationship to grow by over 50% in 2015 when compared to 2014.
What I meant by that comment there is we started off with CMS just using very recent records off The Work Number we're now going back to older records which still add great value and provide solutions to CMS thus providing an increased revenue source for us.
Finally our compliance center initiatives such as I-9 are generating strong interest from employers who require great assurance on their compliance with numerous regulatory -- regulations and laws and that's been a great growth vehicle for them and EWS.
On the PSol.
They have moved aggressively on their four-pronged strategy that I outlined briefly in the third quarter call improving on their execution of delivering value-added products that consumers need and want expanding our presence in the indirect market through the TrustedID acquisition enhancing our International opportunities leveraging our domestic delivery platforms and product strategies and evaluating opportunities in the lead generation space to compete more directly with the freemium companies that exist.
We anticipate 2015 growth in margin will be in the range of their long-term model we communicated to you before.
We have a variety of initiatives in value-based acquisitions and retention.
We improved customer lifetime value of our core product offerings by almost 45%.
We also have a number of other initiatives underway addressing our media strategy increasing ARPU and lowering our churn all of which enable us to deliver stronger growth and margin expansion.
In the indirect market our TrustedID team has signed contracts or is in negotiation with financial -- large financial institutions and nonfinancial institutions on opportunities which in aggregate could represent up to $25 million of annualized revenue potential.
H&amp;R Block is an excellent example of how we're developing highly customized and unique product offerings which support and enhance our indirect partners' customer relationships.
It also underscores how Personal Solutions is developing new products and expanding its distribution channels with solutions that help consumers address the ever-growing threat of identity theft.
Millions of taxpayers are victims of tax identity theft where criminals use a consumer's personal information to file a fraudulent tax return.
Leveraging our data and analytics expertise combined with H&amp;R Block's tax-related capabilities and expertise H&amp;R Block's Tax Identity Shield provides consumers with the ability to better understand their vulnerabilities for tax identity theft and most importantly take the appropriate steps to help reduce that vulnerability.
This is the first and only tax theft -- tax identity theft protection and restoration system product in the marketplace today and we're proud to be working with a great partner like H&amp;R Block.
For the past few years North American Personal Solutions team has worked very closely with their counterparts in the U.K.
to accelerate the growth in the U.K.
Effective in January of this year we've decided to realign our Personal Solutions segments to include now the U.S.
Canada and the U.K.
And eventually we expect to make this a global business including Latin America.
And the whole goal here is to leverage the infrastructure and expertise and the investments we're making in our largest PSol business which is the U.S.
to accelerate growth around the world and it's paying dividends.
Finally Personal Solutions has been very innovative with a vitality Index of over 17% for 2014 the highest of any business unit in the company.
And it's one of the reasons why we believe there'll be a number of opportunities in the lead gen space for us to deliver incremental revenue growth and to establish a strong competitive position in the marketplace.
Our unique mix of consumer data assets and strong partnerships with many of our customers should enable us to grow superior solutions in this space.
Before I go over to John let me just transition back with some things going on at the corporate level.
At the corporate level in addition to improving our overall operating efficiency with our LEAN organization which you're aware of has been around for about 8 9 years now at the request of some of our key client customers our largest customers the large A customers we have now rolled out LEAN at their request into their operations.
This effort has significantly strengthened our relationship with these customers and providing valuable insights on how to further reduce their operating expenses and improve effectiveness through the application of our various product offerings a really unique way to add value to our customers at their request.
New Product Innovation at the corp level continues to be one of our strongest engines for growth.
We launched last year what we call NPI 2.0 and what that's done for us is enhance our Voice of Customer process to better understand our customers' needs and challenges.
We've developed a better market testing environment that enabled us to bring products to market faster build prototype and to launch full speed to establish metrics for -- reestablish metrics for local NPI and made more effective use of our different IT platforms.
So it's really refreshed NPI and the results were solid last year.
Here's an example.
We're building products as I said faster accelerating revenue at faster rates.
And a great example is what we're doing in our Fraud and ID services revenue of which globally was up over 17% last year.
So it enables Fraud and ID to prototype a product faster get customer feedback faster and then launch that product faster than we ever could in the past.
So we should see time to revenue for NPI be reduced as a result of what we're doing with 2.0.
In short 2014 was an outstanding year.
In addition to delivering record revenue and earnings growth the team executed well on our 4 corporate imperatives and they are: delivering consistent strong profitable growth and shareholder returns; number two developing unparalleled analytical insights leveraging our unique data assets; three continue to innovate for market leadership in key domains and verticals that are important to us; and fourth further strengthen our reputation as a trusted steward and advocate for customers and consumers around the world.
So with that John the financials please? Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
As before I'll be referring to the financial results from continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
The FX headwind accelerated in the fourth quarter beyond what we originally expected.
For the quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2013 revenues were negatively impacted by approximately $13 million and adjusted EPS was negatively impacted by about $0.03 a share.
Now let me turn to the business unit financial performance for 4Q '14.
U.S.
Information Solutions revenue was $284 million up 3% when compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
Online Information Solutions revenue was $198 million up about 7% when compared to the year ago period.
Mortgage Solutions revenue was $25 million also up 7% compared to Q4 2013.
This compares favorably to the Mortgage Bankers Application index which was down 13% in the fourth quarter.
Financial Marketing Services revenue was $61 million down 10% when compared to the year-ago quarter.
IXI revenues were up double digits from 2013.
The decline in CMS was primarily driven by $7.2 million of prior year revenues which are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables and which Jeff referred to in his introduction.
Excluding these prior year revenues from 2013 Financial Marketing Services would be up about 0.7% and CMS would be down about 1%.
The operating margin for U.S.
Information Solutions was 40.8% up from the adjusted operating margin of 39% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
International's revenue was $159 million up 15% on a reported basis and up 25% on a local currency basis.
Acquisitions contributed approximately 15 points of the local currency growth.
Constant currency organic revenue growth was about 10%.
By region Europe's revenue was $72 million up 44% in U.S.
dollars and up 47% in local currency driven by the acquisition of TDX.
Organic revenue growth in Europe was slightly above 10%.
Latin America's revenue was $49 million down 3% in U.S.
dollars but up 13% in local currency which included the acquisitions of Inffinix and the credit bureau in Paraguay.
Organic growth was 6% driven by double-digit organic growth in Decision Solutions and Analytical Services.
Canada revenue was $39 million with organic growth of 3% in U.S.
dollars and 12% in local currency.
For the fourth quarter International's operating margin was 22.6% down from 29.1% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Workforce Solutions revenue was $129 million for the quarter up 15% when compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
All growth in Workforce Solutions was organic.
Verification Services with revenue of $81 million was up 24% when compared to the same quarter in 2013.
Employer Services revenue was $48 million up 2% compared to last year.
The Workforce Solutions operating margin was 32.5% compared to 28.9% in Q4 2013.
North America Personal Solutions revenue was $59 million up 2%.
Growth was driven primarily by Canadian subscription growth and indirect revenue through TrustedID.
For the fourth quarter operating margin was 33.7% compared to 30.7% in Q4 2013 largely driven by reduced marketing expense in the quarter.
I should note that the figures I just presented reflect the organizational structure as it existed on December 31 2014.
As Rick noted as of January we have realigned our business units consolidating our U.K.
Personal Solutions along with North American Personal Solutions into the new Personal Solutions segment.
In the attachments to our earnings release we are providing 8 quarters of restated history for the segments as we will be reporting them in 2015.
We also present our multiyear business model in the new business unit configuration.
For the full year 2014 consolidated revenue of $2.44 billion was up 6% on a reported and an adjusted basis and up 7% on constant currency basis.
The full year operating margin was 26.2% while the adjusted operating margin was 26.5% down slightly from 26.7% in 2013.
Diluted EPS attributable to Equifax was $2.97 compared to $2.69 for 2013.
Adjusted EPS from continuing operations was $3.89 up 8% when compared to the adjusted EPS of $3.60 in 2013.
Operating cash flow was again very strong at $203 million in 4Q '14 and $616 million for the year.
We continued our aggressive stock buyback activity repurchasing 1.4 million shares for $115 million in 4Q '14 and 3.9 million shares for $302 million in calendar year 2014.
Our strong cash flow in 2014 allowed us to complete $340 million of acquisitions in addition to over $300 million in share repurchases and still maintain a very conservative leverage ratio of 1.8x EBITDA.
We believe we have significant debt capacity available to us within our current credit ratings and are comfortable operating at leverage ratios in the 2.5x EBITDA area.
With our strong cash flow and substantial available leverage we can implement the 16% dividend increase we announced yesterday and continue a substantial share repurchase program while completing acquisitions consistent with the high end of our targeted 1% to 2% of annual revenue range.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Thanks John.
I'll quickly summarize before we go to questions.
As we look at 2015 we expect the U.S.
mortgage market will move from a headwind to slightly positive year-on-year.
We could discuss that in detail during the Q&amp;A.
We expect however FX will continue to represent a headwind for both revenue and EPS throughout the year.
The guidance I will provide is organic growth only at this time.
However as the year unfolds I would anticipate adding to our overall growth rate through some M&amp;A.
With that and based upon the current level of domestic and international business activity and current FX rates we expect 2015 revenues to be between $2.550 billion to $2.6 billion.
This reflects constant-currency organic revenue growth of 7% to 10% in 2015 which is up from a 4% growth rate in 2014.
The strong revenue growth is partially offset by what we anticipate to be 2 to 3 points of negative impact from FX.
And again this reflects organic growth at this time.
At current FX rates we expect adjusted EPS to be between $4.20 and $4.30 per share.
Excluding the $0.12 per share negative impact from FX at the current rates this reflects 11% to 14% growth in 2015 which is beyond the upper end of our range of the long-term model we have for growth which is 10% to 13%.
This guide is consistent -- the revenue growth is consistent with the long-term business model for organic growth.
We also expect our 2015 operating margin to be up over 27% which is up nicely from the 26.5% in 2014.
Also our priorities for capital allocation have not changed.
We remain committed to our dividend policy of 25% to 35% of adjusted net income reinvesting in our business with CapEx in the range of $75 million to $100 million and continuing our acquisition focus.
Given our strong cash flow and conservative debt leverage absent any major acquisitions we intend to continue our current significant level of stock buyback activity.
And finally we anticipate the tax rate for the year to be between 35% and 36%.
For the first quarter we expect revenue to be between $632 million and $642 million reflecting constant-currency organic growth rate of 11% to 13% and this will be partially offset by 2 to 3 points of FX headwind.
Adjusted EPS is expected to be between $1.00 and $1.03 which is up 12% to 16%.
Excluding $0.02 per share of negative impact from FX this reflects 15% to 18% organic growth.
And also for the first quarter we expect operating margin to finish over 27% which is up over 100 basis points from 2014.
So with that operator if you could please open it up for any questions our audience might have.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first from David Togut with Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> Nice to see the 16% dividend increase.
Rick could you comment on how many Work Numbers are now in the database.
What are your goals for Work Numbers in the database let's say over the next year or 2? And what's the significance of the current number of work records in terms of driving business growth? Yes Dann has done a hell of a job there and his team David not only taking the traditional path to adding Work Number records but being very innovative with things like the ACA platform with different partners out there and we're seeing an acceleration at the rate at which we're adding records.
The total database ended the year well over 250 million the active database well over 60 million.
We -- as I mentioned in my opening comments over 4 300 companies now are contributing.
That's growing at a rapid clip every year.
I see no reason we can't get the active records up over 100 million records in the database in total over 300 million.
And as I've always said before both add value.
The historical records as I've mentioned on the CMS talk a few minutes ago is a great source of revenue and elsewhere and you obviously know the value of the active records.
And the significance of getting that database -- continuing to drive it obviously is incremental revenue.
Every time you add a record you get a hit you get X amount of dollars.
But as you continue to go from 30 million active to 40 million to 50 million to 60 million to 70 million the viability that database has in high-transaction volume verticals is greatly enhanced.
So we're making great progress in places like credit card automotive insurance as some examples.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just shifting gears John could you break down the online CIS unit growth and unit pricing trends in the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis? Sure.
So I think core credit decisioning volume was up 14% and revenue per transaction was down about 5%.
And the down about 5% was really volume mix.
Research Division</strong> And what are your thoughts for 2015 in terms of volume growth and revenue per transaction in online CIS? I don't expect a significant mix change in 2015 versus 2014 David.
What you're seeing on volume is great growth in places like KCP.
Again I mentioned before those are our 8 most strategic larger more complex customers that we deal with bank and nonbank.
That was great growth last year.
I expect that to continue in 2015.
Automotive I think I mentioned up 17% 3x the market growth that will continue.
There's another dynamic David going on which may be of be interest to everyone here and that is kind of a shift which is influencing the online activity.
A shift for what we call prospect data feeds which used to reside or does reside in our business called CMS.
And what customers used to do is take this mass mailing to try to target people.
What we're seeing our customers want to do now more is up-sell cross-sell current customers at the point of sale.
So what you're seeing is kind of a decline in the CMS prospect data feeds and an increase in prescreened which is an online activity.
That occurred last year.
I expect that trend to continue to occur in 2015.
We'll go next to Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Greg calling up for Manav.
Just wanted to ask about the seasonality of the revenue growth.
You're showing the 11% to 14% -- or 10% to 14% revenue growth in the first quarter and 7% to 10% for the year.
Is that differential coming from mortgage? Or how should we think of that throughout the year? Greg as you might know the first quarter tends to be the slowest quarter for us and it tends to ramp throughout the year.
It's a little stronger in the fourth quarter versus the other three.
What you're seeing in the first quarter is a couple of factors.
You mentioned one yes you follow the 10-year treasuries you follow the interest rates and the mortgage applications are up in the first quarter.
Our expectation Greg as I said in my opening comments is we expect overall mortgage for the year to be a modest tailwind versus last year.
You could see a little strength in the first quarter and then kind of dissipating as we go to second third and fourth quarters.
So mortgage is a little bit of a help in the first quarter.
But beyond that the number of wins we had last year across-the-board that could be ACA or EWS and that could be automotive in USIS a large direct-to-consumer win we talked about back in the third quarter is monetizing itself in the first quarter.
So think about it as being overall great execution by the BU leaders which is driving the first quarter growth rate at a higher level than we'd normally see combined with some help from the mortgage market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess on Personal Solutions you've got your large competitors shifting their strategy in the direct market with the new FICO product.
Just wondering how you guys are thinking about the direct market and how you're positioning yourselves there? I believe in the team.
I believe in Trey.
I think they've got a good strategy.
It's a four-pronged strategy which I laid out in the third quarter which is number one to manage the core.
Freemium's here to stay no matter what.
It's here to stay.
So number one he's got to manage his core business to the best of his ability which is managing ARPU managing churn which they're doing.
They've got great metrics.
We've invested heavily in a new platform we're calling it Renaissance [ph] within PSol which enables them to launch products at a faster rate better user interface and experience for the customer.
Number two he's got to leverage the headcount of his indirect model.
We bought a company called TrustedID who's doing that.
I mentioned $25 million worth of annual contracts that are in the pipeline either closed or being negotiated right now.
Number three he's got to leverage everything he's doing which is great in the U.S.
to accelerate growth in Canada and the U.K.
and take it to Latin America.
Number four he's in the process of developing his own free model.
If you believe free is here to stay which I do why abdicate that responsibility to others? We're going to find a way to participate ourselves.
So if he does that -- think about this as you think about building your models.
Think about 2015 kind of being a transition year where performance improves throughout the year and 2016 and beyond is when we move back in that long-term growth model I communicated which is mid- to upper-single-digit growth rates with mid- to upper-20% margins.
We'll go next to Ryan Davis with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the PSol segment.
Outside of the reorganization including U.K.
what should we be thinking about as a sustainable rate of growth for the legacy business? And how much of it is direct to consumer versus the affinity today? You've got a couple of questions there Ryan.
I gave -- just gave the overall growth so I think it was a portfolio with 4 different levers that we have in PSol and that's going to be the mid- to upper-single digit.
I think what you're going to see over time is a low-single-digit growth for the core legacy business and faster growth in the indirect business and faster growth in the International segments and the freemium model over time.
So right now the indirect channel is a smaller piece of the total but one of the fastest-growing pieces of the total.
And that was -- that -- our capabilities are greatly enhanced.
We bought TrustedID whenever it was 12 18 months ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
And thinking about the margin progression in the International business throughout the year I know you said you expected the margin to expand.
Do you have any expectation or a target of where you expect to exit the year at? Yes.
We expect to be over 25% between 25% and 26% as we exit the year.
We'll go next to Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple of things.
Starting with Workforce great year.
Rick could you maybe elaborate a little bit on David's question about drivers.
Is it primarily adding records? Or is it adding functionality and analytics too? I'm just trying to understand sort of what the dynamics are there so monetization and NPI and how that's influencing Workforce in particular.
And then given the momentum in that business would you expect -- and I apologize if I missed this would you expect '15 to show faster organic revenue growth than the long-term trend in that segment? Great questions.
Think about the strategy -- the growth strategy in EWS on 4 dimensions and they're all equally important.
Number one is increasing the size of the database at the fastest rate we possibly can so going from 67 million to 70 million this year 70 million to 100 million records.
That is an enormous -- you know the math Andrew.
That's an enormous growth lever in and of itself.
Number two is taking The Work Number assets to either new verticals or deeper into existing verticals.
We are at the early stages for example in automotive.
It is booming for EWS but it's very early stages.
So we need to penetrate that market deeper faster so on and so forth same with credit card.
So more verticals and deeper in the current verticals we participate in.
Number 3 it is taking analytics to a new level.
I think I talked -- I can't remember the exact numbers now Andrew but I talked about 40% to 50% growth in analytics.
It's remarkable what we've done.
And it's meaningful I'm not going to disclose the numbers but it's meaningful dollars to the corporation let alone to EWS what they have done the last couple of years in analytics.
And again that's early days as well.
The fourth one which we don't talk about a lot but is very very important this is kind of my fault from years ago.
When we look at the employer size -- you've got The Work Number which is the verification side as you know and all the other great suite of products we have unemployment claims tax credit compliance center so on and so forth.
Our mentality for years we've owned this asset for 8 years now it's hard to believe but to be totally honest with you today asset is only there to protect the core Work Number.
That's kind of a tough way to wake up every morning thinking I'm here to protect.
So Dann and I a couple of years ago decided to change the mentality.
They were bringing a great new leader in Scott Collins and really changed the culture the capabilities and the mindset to growth.
So they've gone from a just project which means you have probably negative growth to flat to now a business that will grow for us even though things like unemployment claims are at historical lows.
So that's how I think about EWS on those 4 levers.
And as far as the organic growth in 2015 yes I think I may have mentioned I expect their growth rate in 2015 to once again be a stellar and it will be all-organic stellar growth and meaningful margin expansions once again.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Yes those long-term targets are helpful and pretty impressive upside in that segment from even what you just reported.
I guess the other question in USIS.
Could you kind of just rank order the revenue growth drivers in that business in terms of new product adoption at KCP versus again monetization versus anything else that is critical in that sort of high-single-digit organic revenue growth expectation? Yes let me tackle it from 2 angles one is kind of strategic capabilities another one will be verticals.
On strategic capabilities clearly 2 significant growth drivers that we have experienced and will experience going forward.
One is the -- what we call Decision 360 Andrew which you're aware of.
Now we have all these unique data assets.
What Rudy has done is built this thing called the office or the connector.
We've invested in systems.
We have invested in prototyping capabilities that enable us now to take these unique data assets pull them together and make it so much easier and faster for our customers to consume.
That is really disrupting the marketplace.
I think I mentioned that our top 100 clients are now consuming 3 products on average our top KCP accounts are 4.5 to 5 products.
So Decision 360 leveraging all these unique assets is one huge strategic enabler.
Number two is about 18 months 2 years ago we changed the organizational structure to a concept we call enterprise-wide which is Rudy owns the relationship with all these large clients.
So he takes all these unique assets and brings all those assets to the customers.
That simplification of go-to-market strategy has helped.
As far as verticals that I think offers significant opportunity for core organic growth.
Obviously KCP I mentioned significant growth last year.
They will continue this year.
Tom Madison's team have done a great job.
Telco we're uniquely positioned there.
We have very unique data assets.
Auto we're growing at multiples of the market itself.
In the midterm I'd say -- what we're saying is a rebound in the home equity market.
I think we talked about that last year.
That will benefit Dann as well as Rudy.
And I think that's a multiyear growth lever for us not just for 2015.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one housekeeping one if I may sneak it in.
John I noticed corp ex was up.
I know there's some seasonality in there.
It was above what we were looking for.
Is there any callout in that? No.
Corporate expenses we'd indicated that we thought they're going be flat to slightly up.
They were up a little more than we expected.
It was really incentive compensation.
We did a little better than we had thought and the incentive comp was a little higher.
We'll go next to Ato Garrett with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just have one question on the resulting impact from the improving -- expectation for improving mortgage trends in the first quarter.
Might that actually have a positive effect on price within USIS? It's interesting.
It'll have a positive influence on margin and I don't think that's from a pricing perspective.
If you think about the margin -- and there's different buckets or categories of mortgage.
As you know prime [ph] mortgage may be a little less profitable than the online.
But in general terms an improving mortgage market does help the margins in USIS and helps the margins in EWS.
We'll go next to Nick Nikitas with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just really a strong performance out of Canada in the quarter.
Realize it's a smaller subsegment but with growth accelerating to 12% constant currency year-over-year can you just -- I mean you mentioned the broader Information Solutions strength that you're seeing but can you talk more about the drivers behind that and your outlook for the business into 2015? Yes Nick if I could take your question and maybe just expand it a bit because there are a couple of geographies I'm particularly proud of outside the U.S.
and the growth and you mentioned one which is Canada but the other is U.K.
I mean as a troubled economy it's growing double digit as you exit the year.
Another's Spain.
I mean let's go look at Spain.
If you look at Spain we're growing almost double digit there as we exit the year.
It's just remarkable.
Those 3 countries which are not booming economies by any means.
Canada is a commodity-based economy they're starting to slow.
So the core you are seeing there -- or the reasons you're seeing the growth in Canada to answer your question as well as U.K.
and Spain is the same set of strategic initiatives we have across the company it's innovation it's building new products it's taking products to market faster.
It's driving analytics.
It's leveraging Fraud and ID.
So the core strategies important to Rudy Ploder and important to Dann Adams in EWS and Trey Loughran in PSol are the same initiatives that Paulino and his team in Canada U.K.
and Spain are driving.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just circling back to the Verification Services revenue.
Can you guys talk about any benefit you saw from the ACA in Q4? And is that driving some of the expected strong growth in Q1? Yes.
So remember ACA you think about under 3 buckets.
There is the contractual -- the contract we have at CMS.
We think we've talked about it before that we'd expected last year to end the year slightly above the minimum guarantee that's kind of what occurred and that will accelerate by the way as I mentioned in my comments in 2015.
The second bucket of revenue that was definitely additive to growth was the analytics side of ACA which we talked about 227 accounts.
Probably going to grow something like 40% 50% this year.
And the third bucket was ACA revenue growth which I did mention in my comments too Nick is every time you sell an ACA on the platform -- not every time most times to a company they've got to give us their Work Number records and many times those are Work Number records we never had before.
So once we get them into the database it's a reoccurring monetization.
So all 3 of those had some assistance in fourth quarter 2014 and will accelerate in 2015.
Research Division</strong> Okay good to hear.
And then just last one for me.
Looking at the USIS margins you mentioned the mortgage beneficial impact in '15.
Just looking year-over-year would you I mean after salary growth in '14 should we expect that margin expansion to moderate going into '15? Well for us as I mentioned in my comments we expect the company to move to a margin level of over 27% in 2015.
For us to attain that every business has got to move in the right direction including USIS.
So I expect USIS margins to continue to expand.
That's just the beauty of their model of International's model of EWS' model the variable cost -- the fixed cost is so high.
Yes I'd expect the margins to increase.
We'll go next to Brett Huff with Stephens Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions from me.
One I just want to make sure I'm getting the 1Q versus full year guide.
There was a question I think that someone opened with.
And I think you answered mortgage a little bit better relative to the year-over-year comp early in the year and tapering a little bit.
But aside from that it sounds like the 1Q strength is just reflecting wins from last year.
Is there something about those wins that they would taper? Or are we just sort of waiting until we see how the year plays out and maybe things get a little bit -- maybe we have more visibility as we go out? It's more of the latter.
It's -- I'm glad you asked the question Brett.
As we look at 2015 John and I and the BU leaders are very optimistic for the year.
But to take those kind of growth rates and extrapolate those for the balance of the year I think is imprudent at this time.
There's a lot of uncertainty where the 10-year treasuries go what happens in Ukraine what happens in Russia what happens in the European economy what happens in Greece.
So not knowing or not having the clarity of what's going to happen on the macro perspective for the second third and fourth quarter I think it'd be imprudent to be too optimistic in the forecast we've given you now.
The other thing too is as I've mentioned the forecast is largely all organic.
And our philosophy is when you have a big deal like the one we won at TDX one getting the company integrated; and two throwing all of the resources [ph] to get those multiyear couple of hundred million dollar opportunity up and running is the full focus of International team and of our M&amp;A team which is intimately involved in that.
So we're kind of taking our gas -- or foot off the gas on the M&amp;A.
We'd expect that to pick up and as I said before in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one final question a little bigger picture.
We thought USIS would show a little more strength just our sense is that credit card offers are starting to sort of go out down into the prime and near prime from just the super prime.
Credit's generally easing a little bit for consumers.
We thought that would show up.
It wasn't quite as strong as we thought.
Is there a drag in there from North American Commercial? Or is there something kind of hidden in USIS that may be dragging a little bit that we can't see from the subsegments? No to address one thing which I'm glad you brought it up.
Even though we don't disclose it anymore our Commercial business ended the year with their highest growth rate of the year in the fourth quarter.
So when you look at drag which specific line are you looking at? CMS? Online? What are you looking at when you referenced...
Research Division</strong> We were just looking -- I think you guys came in at 3% all in for USIS and I just thought generally those items even sort of accommodating mortgage I thought that -- we're just sort of sensing there's more like I said specifically on the credit card side we just thought there'd be more pulls on your credit files than we did.
So I just didn't know if you guys are seeing that or maybe not yet? The only one thing that I think John talked about it a little bit is the fact that you have a big chunk of the business CMS that was flat and that impacts USIS in bulk [ph].
We'll go next with Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Look you guys kind of alluded to this a little bit but I wanted to just probe a little further.
Between the capacity on the debt side and the healthy free cash flow and the low leverage it's just kind of a setup for the potential for a big deal potentially deploying somewhere around $1 billion if you want to without stretching the business really too far.
Is there -- are there deals of that size in the pipeline potentially some time for this year? Or is that really not within the kind of the scope of what you're looking at right now? Obviously I'll stay at a high level Shlomo but you hit it on the head.
We have the potential capacity to do a lot of midsized deals or some significant deals.
I don't see this happening in 2015.
You know my philosophy.
You can only do so many large deals at a time.
You want to make sure that they're operating at a level that our shareholders expect.
Since I've been here in 10 years we've done TALX CMS now TDX.
So right now all of our energy is really getting TDX up and running as a core business and getting us through the acquisition -- or this new win we announced up and running.
So you'll see us doing deals this year but you'll see us doing more mid- to small-sized deals.
I just don't see that large transformational deal front and center for this year.
Plus I don't really see the need to have to do a large deal this year.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And there was -- I think it was the last quarter when we talked a little bit about the implementation times for TDX and making sure that you want to kind of get that right.
The timing the sales the demand seemed to be good but you want to make sure that the implementation works and that might be -- maybe went a little bit slower.
In the additional 3 months since the last time we talked has there been any kind of streamlining of that or improving kind of the implementation targets for TDX deals? Yes the answer is absolutely yes.
And I alluded to it at very high level in my comments.
We overwhelmed in a positive way I'd say TDX on the integration front the second half of last year and really accelerated through the fourth quarter last year.
We have supportive [ph] forecasting models down.
We understand different variables.
I'm very pleased with where Paulino and Andy Bodea from the operations perspective are.
We've moved people over to Nottingham to assist and we are expecting double-digit growth from TDX in 2015 excluding any lift from that large deal we won in December.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just moving a little bit to the freemium space.
Can you talk a little bit about the kind of strategy over there and the work that you have to do just to make sure that you don't cannibalize the existing very kind of healthy margin business [indiscernible] Yes there are 2 strategies.
If you just take and bifurcate the freemium into the 2 buckets one is the organic path which means different level of advertising different type of advertising.
And the other is the build with some sort of capability through M&amp;A.
We're looking at both.
But Shlomo I talked to the team about that and I think they get it as well.
You talked about cannibalization.
If we don't do something those that exist in the marketplace will in fact cannibalize that for us.
I would rather have our own product which would be a high-margin product cannibalize our core legacy business than give it to someone else.
So it's a matter of fact.
Over some period of time the freemium model I think is going to be the dominant model.
And it's either we find a way to participate ourselves or you get out altogether I'm not going to do that.
So there'll be some cannibalization but it'd be [indiscernible].
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn it back to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
I thank everybody for their time and their interest in Equifax.
And I think with that we'll terminate the call.
Thanks again.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby.
Good day and welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations.
And with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and John Gamble Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section of the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2013 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax and adjusted operating margin that will be adjusted for certain items which affect the comparability of the underlying operational performance.
Adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and the associated tax effects and the charge principally related to the realignment of internal resources to more effectively support the company's strategic objectives.
Our adjusted operating margin excludes the one-time charge principally related to the realignment of our internal resources.
These measures are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables included in our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Also please refer to our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website www.investor.equifax.com for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
And as always thank you for making time to join us this morning.
The first quarter's performance was very robust and significantly exceeded our expectations.
The thing you'll hear throughout my comments and John's comments in the question-and-answer period will be that the growth over the quarter was very broad based.
It was across all business units across many verticals and across many countries.
USIS and Workforce Solutions in particular posted an exceptional quarter.
USIS saw its strength with its Decision360 initiatives enterprise selling strategy direct-to-consumer channel partners mortgage and home equity lending.
Workforce Solutions saw broad strength in Verification Services including government automotive and mortgage as well as solid strength in its Employer Services business.
The revenue strength in both those businesses led to nice margin expansions as you saw.
Also International and PSOL finished with very solid performances for the quarter.
In total the revenue was $652 million up 12% on a reported basis and up 14.4% on a local currency basis versus the first quarter of 2014.
In the quarter FX created $17 million of year-over-year headwind an increase from the fourth quarter of last year which was $13 million of headwind.
The adjusted operating margin was 27.2% up 120 basis points from the first quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EPS was $1.07 up 20% from $0.89 a share last year and significantly above the upper end of the guidance we provided a few months ago.
As I always do I'll walk through some business-by-business unit highlights and then John will get into the details of the financials.
I'll start as I always do with USIS there they leveraged their Decision360 initiative new product innovation and enterprise selling teams to deliver 14% revenue growth and a healthy 42.4% operating margin up 520 basis points from last year.
Couple of highlights our relationship with Credit Karma as we've talked about in the past it went live in January and January transaction volumes exceeding our original projections.
In addition to purchasing our credit information Credit Karma is also using our Premier fraud and identity authentication solutions to provide consumers with online access to their credit information.
Presently we are part of a 2-Bureau solution with Credit Karma but we believe this will ultimately move to a 3-Bureau solution in an effort to better maximize benefits to the consumers.
As I mentioned on the last call in recent quarters one of the things we're seeing is that the financial institutions are changing the way they originate new consumer accounts in Financial Marketing Services FMS.
The traditional pre-screen activities are giving away to more targeted one-on-one online offers.
We talked about this again last few quarters.
And as a result our revenue mix has gradually been shifting towards higher margin online solutions while our growth in pre-screen revenues has moderated somewhat.
Net-net I view that shift as a benefit to USIS.
As you know we folded Commercial into USIS few quarters ago.
The Commercial business is off to a great start recording their best first quarter performance since 2007 with record revenue and operating margin performance.
Mortgage origination and home equity lending were also strong during the quarter as low interest rate environment resulted in lending activity that exceeded our expectations for the quarter.
We'll get into that in the Q&amp;A and compare it to the MDA (05:53).
Our core 3-Bureau reporting volume was up 18% and we also experienced strong growth in our high-value undisclosed debt monitoring product services as lenders continue to move – continue with their more rigorous underwriting standards.
The pace of mortgage refinancing activity and home equity lending continues to be solid and we expect it will moderate as we talked about back in February somewhat during the second quarter and then continue to moderate as we exit the year.
USIS growth rate is expected to be strong over the course of the year and be comfortably above its long-term growth range of 5% to 7% for the full year.
On to International they posted double-digit local currency growth in five countries including the UK.
The team continued to make good progress with the integration of TDX which delivered constant currency revenue growth in excess of 25% for the first quarter and they're also leveraging NPI to further their market position as many products delivered revenue above their expectation for the quarter around the world.
International's ongoing effort to diversify its revenue base is underscored by double-digit constant currency growth from their SME customer base retail customers insurance customers government customers and utility customers around the globe.
Also all verticals including Financial our Decision and Analytics Solutions are strengthening relationships with our customers and opening new opportunities to NPI and new sources of growth going forward.
International's operating margin performance is also improving.
Excluding TDX and all the investments we're making in TDX International's operating margin expanded by approximately 190 basis points in the quarter when compared to the first quarter of 2014.
During the quarter we executed a Debt Recovery Services Contract with Her Majesty's Government from the UK; we talked about last time.
That's resulting in continued investment in TDX as we're prepared to ramp up and go live sometime in late third quarter for this multi-year UK government opportunity.
So net-net that opportunity is on pace and on track on almost every dimension.
And again we expect some modest revenue at the back end of this year further ramping up in 2014 (sic) [2016] (08:22).
In addition the unique capabilities of TDX and also Infinix that's the one we bought in Mexico those capabilities are being leveraged in other geographic markets where we do not presently have credit information operating units.
This year International will be launching a Latin American regionalization strategy that's what Jeff kind of alluded to that includes people process and system changes.
This effort will further streamline our operations and provide incremental operating leverage for International and also improve customer service and accelerate our time to revenue through new product innovation.
For the year we expect revenue growth to be solidly in the long-term range of 7% to 10% growth in International with improved operating margins as we exit the year.
On to EWS their momentum accelerated in the quarter remarkable performance with broad-based revenue growth of 24% up from 15% growth in the fourth quarter and margins were up an astonishing 800 basis points from the first quarter of last year to 40.3% for the quarter.
Verification Services continued to make great progress penetrating our targeted non-mortgage markets.
We delivered strong double-digit growth in home equity lending auto card consumer finance government and pre-employment combined with growth in the mortgage activity drove a very healthy 34% growth in overall Verification Services revenue.
In addition our penetration of pure tier lending space with our Employment and Income Verification Services has delivered strong new sources of growth.
We now have over 4 500 companies contributing their employment and income estimation into The Work Number database and this number of companies are growing on a monthly basis.
The outlook for 2015 continued to be very good.
Although mortgage originations are expected to slow our revenues and various ACA initiatives further penetration of Employment/Income Verification in non-mortgage markets and our strategic initiatives in Employer Services are expected to offset the mortgage decrease later this year resulting in full-year revenue growth well above the top end of the multi-year range and margin expansion in the range of the neighborhood of 350 basis points or more versus 2014.
On to PSOL constant currency revenue growth was at the upper end of the multi-year range and operating margins continue to be strong.
In addition they're making good progress on their strategic transformation.
Double-digit growth in indirect Canada and UK were the major contributors to growth in the quarter.
For our direct-to-consumer activities in the U.S.
the key operating metric average revenue per subscriber and churn continue to improve.
2015 will be a good transformational year for PSOL as we've talked about in the past.
They're making good progress on three fronts: strengthening the core U.S.
base business.
Number two developing a strong market position in the indirect space.
And three growing our international presence in Canada and the UK.
We expect Personal Solutions to end the year with revenue growth comfortably within our multi-year target range.
Let me go back to corp and I'll give you some highlights at the corporate level and then turn it over to John for the financials.
You've often heard us I think it's been about nine years now talk about NPI drives growth.
In fact we've talked about three points of growth coming from NPI.
(12:06) delivered those three points growth for us in the first quarter.
There's another very important growth driver which was launched about three years or four years ago we don't talk a lot about and we launched it across all of our business units and that's what we call Enterprise Growth Initiatives EGI for us.
It's a very systematic way for managing multimillion dollar revenue initiatives that we overwhelm with resources and process and senior management attention because of importance to the long-term growth.
Our EGI initiatives had a banner first quarter performance with strong double-digit growth exceeding our expectations for the quarter.
And our outlook for the year continues to be for very strong year-on-year growth coming from EGI.
Also at the corporate level we're talking about how we've developed a strong reputation of our customers regarding our expertise in lien and we're doing this globally.
We're not only leveraging the relationships with our existing customers and continue to drive incremental revenue growth but we're also opening doors with non-customers around the world because of the reputation we've developed in some of our very key verticals.
It gives us yet another opportunity to grow revenue through stronger customer partnerships and really differentiate our offerings to these customers in yet another dimension.
Our global fraud initiatives which across all of our B2B business units delivered solid double-digit growth for the quarter as well.
In summary the quarter's performance is the strongest first quarter performance we've experienced in many years.
Sequential revenue growth in the fourth quarter was up 4.4% whereas in the past years you would typically experience modest or even decline in sequential growth.
Adjusted operating margin expanded 70 basis points from the fourth quarter and adjusted earnings per share increased almost 5% from the fourth quarter and we usually see decline in sequential growth.
Despite this unprecedented performance we're still early in the year and there are still some uncertainties out there and the macroeconomic challenges around the globe.
However we are more optimistic now than we were when we entered the year.
I'll turn over to you John now for some financials and we'll come back with some closing comments.
Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
As before I'll be referring to the financial results from continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
During the quarter we reported a charge of $23.4 million principally related to the realignment of internal resources to more effectively support our strategic objectives.
The actions were primarily driven by the regionalization and consolidation strategy in International including the integration of TDX consolidation of functions related to the integration of Commercial into USIS and then some realignment actions across the remainder of the business.
The cost for two-third severance would also include related real estate legal and other costs.
The costs are reflected in SG&amp;A and the general corporate expense lines of our financial statements.
The actions will occur throughout 2015 and should be completed within 12 months.
Ongoing savings once the actions are complete are expected to be $10 million to $15 million per year with limited incremental benefit in 2015.
Now consistent with our past practice for treating unusual or infrequent items we have excluded this charge from our adjusted EPS and adjusted operating margin in order to provide investors with a more consistent period-to-period operating comparison.
The FX impact on revenue and EPS this quarter were consistent with our expectations that we provided to you in February.
Now let me turn to the business units' financial performance for the quarter.
U.S.
Information Solutions revenue was $299 million up 14% when compared to the first quarter.
Online Information Solutions revenue was $222 million up 15% when compared to the year-ago period.
Mortgage Solutions revenue was $31 million up 28% compared to Q1 2014.
These trends compare favorably to the Mortgage Bankers Application Index which was up 21% in the first quarter.
Financial Marketing Services revenue was $46 million up 3% when compared to the year-ago quarter.
As Rick mentioned earlier this slower growth reflects a shift in how financial institutions are originating new accounts to 1:1 online solicitations.
The operating margin for U.S.
Information Solutions was 42.4% up from 37.2% in the first quarter of 2013.
We continue to expect USIS to have operating margins in the low 40%s consistent with our long-term model in 2015.
International's revenue was $139 million down 1% on a reported basis but up 10% on a local currency basis.
By region Europe's revenue was $58 million up 1% in U.S.
dollars and up 12% in local currency.
Latin America's revenue was $48 million up 2% in U.S.
dollars and 13% in local currency.
Canada revenue was $33 million down 9% in U.S.
dollars but up 3% in local currency.
For the first quarter International's operating margin was 20.2% down slightly from 20.6% in the first quarter of 2014.
This reduction in margin was principally due to FX.
For the full year we continue to expect the operating margin to expand slightly compared to 2014.
Workforce Solutions revenue was $149 million for the quarter up 24% when compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Verification Services with revenue of $86 million was up 34% when compared to the same quarter in 2014.
Employer Services revenue was $63 million up 13% compared to last year.
Following the WOTC hiatus in 2014 states began processing their backlog during the first quarter.
Also revenue from our ACA analytical solutions was very strong in the quarter.
The Workforce Solutions operating margin was 40.3% compared to 32.3% in Q1 of 2014.
The margin benefited from the WOTC renewal which contributed approximately three percentage points to the margin in the quarter.
For full-year 2015 we continue to expect Workforce Solutions operating margin to be in the range of 36% to 37%.
Personal Solutions revenue was $66 million up 4% on a recorded basis and up 6% on a local currency basis.
For the first quarter operating margin was 27.4% compared to 28.5% in Q1 2014.
This year-over-year reduction is consistent with our expectations and the guidance we gave for Q1 and the full year.
In the first quarter general corporate expense at $78.4 million was up significantly reflecting the $23.4 million realignment charge I mentioned previously.
Excluding this charge general corporate expense was $55 million up $8.7 million sequentially and $24.3 million versus 1Q 2014.
This increase is principally due to increased incentive and equity compensation and benefits expense.
This reflects the very strong performance in 1Q 2015 as well as earlier timing of annual equity expense in 2015 versus 2014.
We also saw increased professional legal and regulatory costs in 1Q 2015 versus 1Q 2014.
Looking at 2Q 2015 we expect general corporate expense to be down $10 million sequentially on an adjusted basis reflecting lower equity expense and at or slightly below the Q2 level in both Q3 and Q4.
Operating cash flow was $103 million in the first quarter.
Cash flow grew faster than earnings reflecting positive working capital performance.
We continued our aggressive stock buyback activity repurchasing 1 million shares for $90 million and paying $35 million in dividends to our shareholders.
Our leverage remains a very conservative 1.75 times EBITDA.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Great.
Thanks John.
Quick outlook for guidance for the second quarter and the total year.
Before I give you some numbers just want to put into perspective the influence of the mortgage market as it relates to the second quarter and the balance of the year.
Again we expect the market to – the mortgage market to perform much like we talked about back in February moderating a bit in the second quarter and then continuing to moderate even further year-on-year in the third quarter and fourth quarter.
So for the second quarter we expect organic revenue growth – organic revenue to be between $655 million and $665 million that is a constant currency organic revenue growth rate of 10% to 12% and that's partially offset by three points of FX headwind.
Adjusted EPS is expected to be between $1.09 and $1.11 which is up 14% to 16% excluding $0.02 per share of negative impact from FX.
This reflects constant currency growth rate of 16% to 18% for the quarter.
We also expect operating margin to continue to improve in the quarter in the range of 27.5% to 28%.
Obviously there is some uncertainty for the balance of the year it's macroeconomic uncertainty around the world it's U.S.
economic uncertainty some uncertainty in Middle East uncertainty in Latin America.
So – but against that uncertain backdrop I'm convinced that this team will continue to execute extremely well and continue driving above-market growth across all of our businesses and all of our verticals through the second quarter and the balance of the year.
So with that and based upon the current level of domestic and international business activity and the FX rates we expect 2015 to – a revenue range of $2.585 billion to $2.635 billion which is up from our previous guidance.
This reflects constant currency organic revenue growth of 8% to 11% for the year.
This strong revenue growth is partially offset by three points of negative impact from FX and again as before this is only organic revenue growth at this time.
2015 adjusted EPS we expect to be in the range of $4.28 and $4.35 per share also up from our previous guidance.
This reflects 10% to 12% growth in 2015.
FX impact for the year as we previously stated in the last earnings call is expected to be about $0.11 for the year.
We had about $0.02 a share impact in the first quarter which says we have about – remaining $0.09 per share impact for the full year.
So with that operator let's open up for any questions our callers might have.
Thank you.
We'll go to Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you very much Rick and for taking my questions and John.
I want to just drill in a little bit more very very healthy growth across the company.
The biggest I would say surprise was in the Employer Services; that has had the best growth it looks like in like five years.
Can you talk a little bit about just the stuff that came together specifically in the quarter and how I should be thinking about the growth? Have you gotten that to a sustainable double-digit growth level over there? How should I think about that? Thanks Shlomo.
I'd say there's two primary drivers to the growth.
One I think I mentioned it last year that new leadership in there has been about a year or so year-and-a-half Scott Collins doing a heck of a job.
He's changed the mentality out there from a business unit that's kind of protect the work number to a growth business model.
So he's built processes he's changing the team.
They think about growth not protect so that's helping him.
And then you had a WOTC benefit for the first quarter that added some growth as well.
So as I think about the Verification Services piece of EWS Shlomo when we bought the business we thought it would be a good solid year-on-year middle-single-digit kind of growth rate.
So I would not model a double-digit growth rate for Employer Services at this point.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> So if I dig further down how much of that was like ACA work and some of the stuff that's just compliance type work that's going to be sustainable going forward? Yeah.
I mean in the Employer Services is a piece of business that is on fire.
And I think we talked about it in the last earnings call and that is what we call Workforce Analytics and that is going to grow over 100% this year.
And we've signed hundreds of contracts to help employers make sure they're compliant with the ACA laws.
And remember as I mentioned before Shlomo we get multiple bites of the apple there you get some consultant revenue you get the analytics revenue and then in many cases the employers who are using that analytics don't give us work number records; the only way we can analyze their level of compliance is to get the work number records.
So that revenue growth by adding those records to the database don't show up in Employer it shows up in Verification once they flow down the system.
So you should consider ACA Analytics or Workforce Analytics as being a long-term sustainable growth piece of EWS's strategy.
Also within the Employer Services they are building out a really good full suite of compliance center products to help our employers ensure they're compliant with many regulatory changes not just (26:53).
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> So do you feel – I mean how much are you able to quantify or give a rough estimate as to kind of that virtuous circle of doing that type of compliance that's resulting in a work – The Work Number and then additional hits to the database that are coming back with something so that's adding revenue to the Verification Services line? Rest assured we do know those numbers.
We don't disclose those right now.
But if you talk to Dann Adams Shlomo he would tell you as would Scott the guy that runs that part of the business Shlomo that the compliance center is a exciting multiyear growth strategy for EWS in total and clearly for the Employer side.
We've given you some color in the past around the number of records added through ACA through Workforce Analytics.
And you know that the number on the average revenue per transaction so you can build some sense of how important that is on the Verification side it's meaningful.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> One last question and then I'll drop off.
How much did the Credit Karma relationship add to the year-over-year growth in OCIS? We don't disclose individual client activity.
We gave you a number I think it was back in the fourth quarter of what it would be.
We said $20 million to $25 million a year in revenue.
So in the scheme of things for the company great customer great win not only significant for the company but important for USIS.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Very good.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
We'll go next David Togut with Evercore ISI.
Thank you and good morning Rick and John.
Hello David.
Quite a quarter.
Since you touched on Workforce Solutions in some detail could you provide a little more detail on the 18% unit growth you disclosed in USCIS in terms of the underlying drivers sustainability of those drivers? Yeah.
Again as I tried to allude to in the – my opening comments as did John in his it is extremely broad based it is.
Automotive was extremely strong.
Our KCP clients was strong Financial Services was strong Telco was strong Credit Karma was strong mortgage channel partners were strong.
It is extremely broad based.
And just as a follow-up your 450 basis points of operating margin expansion in that business do you have a higher target now for operating leverage in that business? Or is this short-term strength that will slow over time? The gift that keeps on giving you always want more David.
I'd say the beauty of this model is we have the ability to continue to invest in CapEx for organic growth.
And as you're growing the leverage you get is phenomenal.
So that exists not only in USIS as we really saw that exists in virtually every business we have and what you just saw in EWS as well.
So yeah I think now that they're over I don't know the exact number for USIS over 42% I think it was yeah you should expect them to fall in that range.
And the only way John and I can give you our targeted 25 basis points of expansion every year is that every business unit continues to grow.
So I would expect USIS to continue to expand on mortgage as well.
Final question for me on capital allocation.
What should we think about in the next year in terms of dividend growth given the elevated EPS growth that you showed in the first quarter? Yeah we're committed to that range that we talked about.
And I think it was three years or four years ago we established a new dividend policy that 25% to 35% of our net income going back in the form of a dividend.
So as we continue to grow our net income you should continue to expect dividends to increase.
Thank you very much.
Thank you David.
Go to Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi this is actually Greg calling on for Manav.
Just wanted to dig in a little bit on the TDX contract with the UK government.
Clearly you guys sound pretty constructive about it.
But was hoping to get some color both around the magnitude of the cost as you ramp up that contract and then how to think about the ramp up and the ultimate opportunity there? Yeah.
Greg thanks for joining.
I'll talk specifically about TDX.
What you can hear us talk about more in the future is a debt services platform which is really integrating the capabilities we have and our Mexican acquisition is about the same timeframe called Infinix and then TDX which is the UK-domiciled capability.
So you'll hear us talk about kind of debt servicing platform versus TDX or Infinix going forward.
Specific to the Her Majesty's contract as I alluded to briefly in my comments going as expected.
We've overwhelmed this with people with process.
The timeline is tight.
It was such a significant award that we had to make sure we got it right and we're getting it right.
And hopefully as we extend this technical environment up this structure up in the third quarter we started to receive their first load of data in the third quarter.
It takes you a while to analyze the data understand the data format the data and then you pass the analytics on to the collection agencies across the country.
So that's why I said you expect nominal amount of revenue in the 2015 year maybe the very end of the fourth quarter and then ramping up nicely in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And I guess along that same theme during post the acquisition you talked a lot about bringing the TDX capabilities to new markets whether it's the U.S.
or Australia.
Does this contract put that a little bit on the backburner or how are you seeing that progress right now? That's a great question.
We drilled a little bit early on because the same teams that can the build the capabilities to deploy in different countries were concerned we're getting the DMI contract up and running in the UK.
However I can tell you that they're moving full speed now in places like Canada.
I was just in South America last week met with clients in both Chile and Argentina the interest level is extremely high and the pipeline is very good.
Things are going very well in Australia.
And we mentioned before things are going very well in Peru Colombia.
There is a strong interest in Brazil for the platform.
So while we're distracted a little bit with DMI that distraction is now behind.
And we're moving full speed.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Go to Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Rick I guess kind of a two-part question.
One from a big picture perspective in terms of where we are in the credit cycle I heard you mention a lot of consumer credit products save credit cards.
So I wonder if you have a sense as to where you think we are as far as issuers ramping up their consumer credit card businesses.
And then sort of as a corollary you mentioned the shift in the way your customers are going to market.
And I wonder how that dovetails with some of the newer credit modeling solutions that FICO is introducing around thin files and perhaps how that might open up sort of the next leg of growth in consumer credit cycle or whether you think it will at all? Thanks Andrew.
Two thoughts one on the bank card issuance what's going on there.
Since the bank card issuance in the U.S.
kind of hit the bottom the market has rebounded at a rate of about 10% or so a year so it's growing modestly actually above modestly.
However it still remains significantly below the pre-recessionary levels.
So improving but nowhere close to where we were back in the pre-recessionary environment.
And obviously that improvement helps us.
As far as FICO as you know the FICO business score the thin score thin file score you've alluded to is predicated largely upon our data and analyst data a lot of data used in that model is borrowing the data from our (36:01) data file on utilities and telcos.
So as that product takes off obviously we're the benefactor of that.
Okay.
Do you think from a macro perspective that the signals the move towards thin file scoring and so forth signals sort of an opening up of the underwriting environment or is this more tactical or more incremental I guess? Yeah.
I think it's more incremental.
If you look at take a proxy the subprime bank card market what you're seeing there is yes they're getting a little more aggressive in subprime lending but the outstanding that loan limits I should say are extremely low.
And so while they're going a little more aggressive and obviously this thin file score will help them to be a little more aggressive they're being very cautious on the limits they're applying to those bank cards.
Okay.
But obviously anytime you get more people access to credit and this score does that we benefit by default.
Sure.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then just as a follow-up you mentioned you called out EGI as a driver.
Could you just give a couple of examples? And I wonder if you moved toward more of these Enterprise Solutions that's helping your pricing overall.
Yeah (37:32).
Yeah.
So Andrew I think you may know a leader for us here – the guy's name is Andy Bodea works for me runs global operations runs the global lean global procurement.
He is a great operator a disciplined operator.
He's got a great team around him.
He started looking at this since in earnest maybe three years or four years ago and said look at these large multimillion dollars sometimes cross-business unit deals you need more rigor to ensure our time-to-revenue is as expected much like we did in NPI.
So Andy and his team have been doing this now for three years or four years.
And we're doing stuff I'll give you a couple of examples of where we are attacking EGI today one is in automotive.
And we're couple of years into that now and we decided to get into automotive heavily.
We leveraged EGI discipline to do so.
Another I alluded to EWF a few minutes ago was this compliance center building up more capabilities (38:29) and some others and non-ACA Workforce Analytics a whole suite of new products (38:37).
We're doing some things in PSOL – re-platforming of PSOL's go-to-market.
It definitively gives you exclusively pricing power? It definitely gives you revenue growth which is a factor in our performance as you've seen us exit 2014 and continue in 2015.
And I think anytime you can build products to differentiate what you do versus your competition it does add more value – the discussion goes away from pricing more to share gain you spend.
Terrific appreciate the color nice job.
Sure.
Thank you.
We'll go to George Mihalos with Credit Suisse.
Great.
Good morning guys and congrats on the quarter.
Rick and John just wanted to start off with if we look at the first quarter you did I think 14% constant currency organic revenue growth.
The outlook for the second quarter I think you're talking about 10% to 12% constant currency.
Is there anything outside of any sort of variability on the mortgage side that would cause you to expect that deceleration I guess is there going on in the business that you think was sort of one-time in the first quarter or that is slowing a little bit as you go through the back half of the year outside of mortgage? No it is specifically the second quarter and then I'll come back to the balance of the year.
There are two primary drivers when you look at sequential growth.
And you hit one George which is the mortgage market.
And the other is I think I alluded to it in my comments the WOTC contract Workforce Opportunity Tax Credit contract which we monetized in the first quarter this year we did last year as well.
It doesn't repeat.
It's a one quarter – largely a one-quarter activity.
That's the nuances if you will for the second quarter.
And then for the balance of the year the third quarter and fourth quarter we look at growth rates here which are still very solid I think you'd agree.
It's really the uncertainty on a macro basis; interest rate environment regulatory environment around the world economic environment so on and so forth geopolitical issues and there's uncertainty there.
That's about it.
Okay great.
I appreciate the color.
And then as it relates to margins on international and the rollout of TDX there it sounds like the contract will be somewhat fully ramped in the fourth quarter.
I appreciate the commentary around margins in international for the year.
But what is a good exit rate ending 2015 for international margins? I would imagine they would sort of spike up in the fourth quarter.
Is that a fair way to think about it? No.
Because as I alluded to the data doesn't come in until third quarter.
By the time we actually format it analyze it and then start to distribute the data and analytics it could be late fourth quarter.
So I don't expect much revenue from that large contract.
You got to understand the investment we've made in this business has been on two fronts; one is standing up DMI and the other is the typical stuff we invest when we acquire a company as security.
That's compliance.
We're in the process of applying for a license in UK for this organization and so on and so forth.
This makes (41:50).
So this is a year of fairly heavy broad-based investment in TDX also investment to bring it global into more countries.
So as far as margin expansions for TDX specifically and then international I expect modest improvement for international for this year but then a more significant improvement as we go in 2016 because the level of spend comes down the core TDX business continues to grow at strong double-digits and the monetization of DMI.
Okay great.
And just last question for me as it relates to the restructuring savings the $10 million to $15 million would you expect that to fully pass through in 2016 or is the expectation that you'll reinvest those savings in the business for accelerated growth? Thank you.
John? I would expect probably it's a combination of both right.
Some of it will pass through and then some of it we'll reinvest to try to accelerate growth in 2016 and 2017.
So you're going to see a combination of both actions.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
We'll go to Brett Huff with Stephens Inc.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning Rick John and Jeff.
Congrats on a nice quarter.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Two questions.
One you mentioned EGI and there was a follow up question on it.
Could you call out the contribution to growth kind of like you do for NPI this quarter or maybe recent history and is that accelerating? It's an interesting question.
The answer is I'm not prepared to do that now but let me give that some thought Brett.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Because you're right there are a lot of similarities.
It's a systematic way to bring process discipline to growth...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
...much like NPI.
So let me give it some thought.
At a high level I will tell you this.
It is becoming a very meaningful number.
It is contributing to our organic growth rate quarter in quarter out.
Rather than just react here on the phone let John give some thought to what's the best way to frame that up for you.
But the one reason we didn't break it up for this call is because; one we've been at it and we have some credibility internally in doing this for three years or four years now; and two it's meaningful.
So I'll come back to you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And second question is on PSOL there's been some strategic changes going on specifically the Experian FICO deal.
Have you seen changes in your PSOL business or consumer behavior around that? Do you think that FICO will become a more widely used standard of credit score in direct-to-consumer business for you all or other people any thoughts on that? Yes.
I think FICO is the brand when it comes to scoring in the U.S.
today.
So I think the thing that's changed for PSOL largely is three things: one we now have good international platform versus a U.S.
platform; two with the acquisition of TrustedID a year and a half year or so ago that gives them a whole new area of focus for growth; and three obviously is free thing we talked about.
Free market is here to stay.
So be that a FICO score or any other score getting your score for free is here to stay.
And as I mentioned in the last earnings call Trey and his team and even (45:08) and his team from the USIS side are working diligently on figuring out how to best play there.
And I always tell people that there's a different way to think about that and if you look at one of our competitors who talks about their PSOL business they're (45:26) if you will.
We sell to partners.
They aggregate in their PSOL business.
That reflects a much different growth profile.
So as I think about it I don't really care if it comes through our USIS channel which it does today or if comes through PSOL which it may in the future.
That free market is here and it's clear we've got to have a great strategy around that and the team is developing that right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
We'll go to Jeff Meuler with Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Thank you.
So some of these numbers are baffling – bafflingly good to me.
So I got to ask how – and I know your targets are multi-year targets but how frequently do you revisit if they're still the right targets or is it possible that maybe they are the right long-term targets but within that framework you could still grow for several years above the upper ends of the targets.
And I'm just asking given how strong enterprise selling is going NPI it seems like a lot of these things should have legs to them? Yes.
When we give guidance or we give a multi-year framework Jeff we take that very seriously.
So when John and I think it's prudent to revisit the multi-year framework and make any adjustments you guys will be the first to know.
But at this juncture largely driven by it has nothing to do with our ability to execute.
The things you mentioned D360 new product innovation EGI pricing all those things.
I think you know Jeff we've been at now for eight years nine years 10 years and that's all organic as we talked about as well.
So the only thing that's holding us back right now is macro uncertainty and it's just too early to make any change on the model at this juncture.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then the commercial business I think you said it was the best Q1 since 2007.
If you could help us understand what's driving that? Is it market or are you starting to see some of the benefits from move again into the USIS management? Clearly it's the latter.
You've heard me say before leadership makes a difference.
And that's now the responsibility of Rudy Ploder and then a guy within Rudy's team we talked of before he runs our KCP accounts and a high potential guy in our company Tom Madison.
Those two gentlemen have brought focus and discipline and leveraging the USIS relationships.
So leadership makes a difference and that's a great example.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then on the guidance John if you could just help me understand the constant currency EPS growth was merely narrowed to the top end of the prior range but the EPS figures that you're citing the top end of the guidance range was raised.
I think currency got worse not better if you could just help me bridge that please? Now the currencies – this is Rick.
So it's the same.
We gave currency impact for the year of about $0.11 when we were together in February.
And as I probably said in my comments it's still $0.11 for the year.
It's $0.09.
The remaining $0.02 of it will occur in the first quarter.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So why does the top end of the growth – constant currency EPS growth guidance range not go up but the EPS figures that you're citing for the full year do go up at the top end of the range? They did go up.
I think speaking from memory our last guidance was $4.20 to $4.30.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Correct.
And we're now saying $4.28 to $4.35.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
And I'll take one more swipe at it and then I'll follow up offline.
But I think the constant currency EPS growth rates the top end of that is still $0.14 correct? $0.14 is what gave.
Some of it's just rounding right.
But we did take it up a nickel.
So we took the top-end of the guidance range up a nickel.
Currency really hadn't changed much.
So if you're seeing growth rate that look similar it's simply rounding because a nickel on $4.30 isn't a huge percentage.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll go to Andrew Steinerman with JPMorgan.
Hi gents.
I wanted to go back to debt collection recovery management the way it is right now.
Sure I saw the comment of double-digit growth currently.
I was wondering if you could just be a little more specific about what the current growth rate of that business is what's the size of that business as we just anniversary TDX and Inffinix.
Yes.
Andrew I thought I mentioned in my comments it was 25% growth in the first quarter and that's specific to TDX.
Anyways I expect it to be strong double-digit growth for the year as we talked about before and (50:16) traction.
And how big is that business now? I think we've given the number when we bought it.
We didn't give.
Jeff is shaking his head no.
It's becoming a very meaningful size business for us.
Right.
But it is still under $100 million of revenues right? Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll go to Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Rick any way to size the contribution to growth in verification from WOTC? And also maybe just talk about the CMS contract was that a benefit to OIS in the first quarter? And then finally the new 15 million people who were going to be scored by the new JV you just announced with FICO and LexisNexis does that 15 million does that add roughly about 10% to the people in your credit database and will those people use you think these active in credit as your existing people in the files? Thanks.
Okay.
The first one on the WOTC I'm not sure I remember all three questions.
First on the WOTC was if you took the WOTC benefit out the growth rate for all of EWS I think went from 24% to 21%.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Sure.
And number two – what the heck was number two again? Inc.</span></strong> CMS.
Which CMS? The Medicaid &amp; Medicare Services contract? Inc.</span></strong> Correct.
And you said what benefits that had for EWS? Inc.</span></strong> No no for – yes that's right for EWS.
Yes.
(51:48) Yes.
I gave some numbers earlier on the last call Paul.
Last year we were slightly above the minimum contract and we expect to be up significantly from that in this year.
That was number one.
Number two we talked about another big part which is probably even bigger on the CMS mandate is the ACA workforce analytics stuff that we talked about which will be up over 100% this year versus last year and also adding a lot of – number of records to the database.
So it's very important to us.
Inc.</span></strong> And will that up significantly that would coincide with enrollment growth in Obamacare? Yes absolutely.
Remember last year they had all the issues with standing up the CMS websites.
That's largely behind.
The awareness is greater.
The activity rate is much higher so yes.
Inc.</span></strong> I mean just on how does the additional 15 million of people with the FICO JV you just announced how much does that increase your current number of people with credit scores that you send credit reports on and will those people be as active? Yes that is yet to be seen on the activity base.
But the good thing is we're finding people who don't have a credit file who have some payment behavior that seems positive that you can now introduce to telcos and banks and auto lenders to potentially give them credit.
But the time will tell if in fact they have a credit activity that's like the rest of our customer base.
My guess is no (53:22) time will tell.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And we'll go Bill Warmington with Wells Fargo.
Good morning everyone and I'll add my congratulations on a strong quarter.
Thank you Bill So a question for you on the U.S.
government ID authentication work.
If you could talk a little bit about how the volumes have been this year versus last and also which government agencies you are currently serving and what the pipeline looks like for new ones? Yes.
I mean I gave you a high-level overview in my comments that the fraud and (53:59) detection business which is much more than just the U.S.
is growing strong double-digit for us which is great.
So if I think of specific to your questions where are we solving problems with the U.S.
with fraud and ID prevention products it is in SSA it's in the IRS it's in CMS it's also a number of state agencies across the country so it's broad based.
And yes the punch line there is Bill if I look at our three-year to five-year strategic plan and say what might look different three years to five years out one of the areas we've talked about with you guys is a much larger more impactful higher performing fraud and ID protection business and that's why we dedicated some new resources when we structured that last year and it's just performing very well.
And then a question for you on Europe very strong performance there up 12% constant currency despite the sluggish economy.
Is that share gains driving that growth? And if so how you're taking share in what would normally be considered a fairly mature market? Yes.
We've talked about this before.
We've got a great leader who is an Argentine that worked for us across Latin America and then we moved him to Spain.
He got Spain really on a great roll through the recession and post recession.
And then we moved him and then it was Patricia Ramon (55:30) to the UK sometime last year continues to do a good job there.
So it's the same dynamics you'd be seeing Bill around the world.
It is innovation it is focus on verticals that are important just like insurance government over there and now collections.
It is analytics decision analytics platforms that we're deploying across multiple verticals in our European footprint.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Okay.
I'd like to thank everybody for their time their support of the company.
And with that operator we'll terminate the call.
Have a good day.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks and good morning.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations.
And with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and John Gamble Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we'll be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2014 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
We will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax.
It will be adjusted for certain items which affect the comparability of the underlying operational performance.
Adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and the associated tax effects an impairment charge related to our cost-method investment in DBS and an income tax benefit generated from a state tax law change.
These measures are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliation tables included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Also please refer to our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website www.investor.equifax.com for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks as always for joining us this morning.
By now you've seen the results and I think you'd agree our company continues to benefit from our unique and very diversified business model.
Also benefits from our high-leveled execution costs all the BUs and the centers of excellences and we continue to reap benefits from the new product innovation that we've launched back in 2006.
For the quarter both revenue and adjusted EPS exceeded the upper end of our guidance range for all four business units and they delivered revenue growth ahead of our expectations.
This reflected both our continued execution of new products and market expansions as well as a stronger than expected U.S.
mortgage market.
Total revenue for the quarter was $678 million up 10% on a reported basis and up 14% on a local currency basis from the second quarter of 2014.
In the quarter FX created a $19 million year-on-year headwind up from the headwind we experienced in the first quarter up $17 million.
Operating margin for the quarter was 27.8% up from 27.3% in the second quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EPS was $1.15 up 20% from $0.96 a share last year and significantly above the upper end of our guidance range.
As I always do let me – before John gives you some financial details I'll go through some of the business unit highlights as well as some of the corporate highlights.
And then we'll go into the details of the financials with John.
The power of our Decision 360 initiative which you by know are very well aware of combined with our enterprise selling strategy and our mortgage market success enabled USIS to once again deliver very strong broad-based 12% growth.
Our recently launched data and analytics environment which we've introduced to you and we call it Cambrian has positioned us to develop and deliver new D360 products at speeds that once took weeks now take us minutes.
This is something you'll recall we've talked about now for probably two years and that is now fully in production in the U.S.
and making a big difference.
The primary goal of Cambrian is to source and integrate structured and unstructured data from any industry anywhere in the world and proactively deliver actual insights valued by our customers.
What is particularly compelling is that we can now create transformational solutions by combining traditional trusted data with other Big Data sources in cutting edge analytical capabilities with greater ease and speed.
Cambrian will help us discover new data assets through our research and/or our partnerships that will further broaden and deepen our portfolio of data assets and fuel new product innovation.
Presently for Cambrian the environment is focused on our U.S.
based data assets and market opportunities however as we've talked in the past we'll be developing significant domain expertise that will enable us to expand into our international geographies over the next 6 months to 12 months.
Moving on and in the auto vertical in the U.S.
we recently launched the first of three products in the Power Lead suite which leverages our data assets to help auto dealers be more effective in their marketing activities.
They leverage third-party service providers or connectors as we call them.
We help dealers leverage their website performance by turning anonymous borrowers into known high quality leads.
Consumers are now more empowered by getting their credit score online after being authenticated with our eID Verifier services and all this information is with consumer authorization that's then shared with the dealers.
Our partnership with Credit Karma I think we talked to you about that back in the very end of 2013 early 2014.
That continues to be – is that right? 2014 and 2015 yeah at the very end of 2014 sorry about that.
That continues to be a very important revenue contributor to USIS and is off to a great start this year.
We now expect the revenue in the relationship with Credit Karma for 2015 to expect – to exceed our original expectations.
Staying in USIS in the utility sector we launched our – the first of our four markets specific insight tools leveraging third-party data alongside our credit information and our telco and utility database.
These insights will help utilities optimize their deposit strategies to better manage and control portfolio loss rates.
Our Commercial Solutions business within USIS their product offerings in business unit had a very strong performance in the quarter with both accelerating revenue growth and improved operating margins when compared to the first quarter of the year.
Mortgage origination activity exceeded our expectations for the quarter and driven by our strong market position contributed nicely to USIS's growth and margin expansion.
Our fraud and property valuation product offerings continued to deliver very strong double-digit growth in the mortgage market as well.
We'll talk obviously in the Q&amp;A more about mortgage and where we think that's headed.
Finally our partnership with Jumio which we've talked to you about in the past has secured its first mobile commerce authentication service with a major telco.
The application includes validation of an end user's photo ID along with facial biometrics a first for us.
While we expect the mortgage growth to decelerate for the remainder of the year we expect USIS to end 2015 with double-digit organic revenue growth and operating margins comfortably exceeding 40%.
Let's move on to International.
They continue to make very good progress on their critical strategic growth initiatives including the integration of TDX implementation of the UK government contract and continue to drive innovation through new products around the globe.
Revenue in International's three largest verticals which are the financial institutions telcos and SMEs grew 13% for the quarter.
The decisioning platforms analytics services and debt management revenue grew 17% for the quarter.
TDX delivered another quarter of 20% plus revenue growth a trend we expect to continue as we move into the third quarter.
Also we are in the process of entering the Canadian and Brazilian markets with TDX products and services.
We're also meeting all of our operational readiness commitments within TDX or the UK contract that we've talked about in the past.
Equifax data has been integrated into the TDX workflow for developing the consumer insights and appropriate collections strategies.
The IT infrastructure build has been completed and security penetration testing is largely completed.
20 debt collection agency contracts have been signed after vetting with the UK government and as we've mentioned to you in the past we expect this to be operational late fourth quarter early fourth quarter modest revenue this year and ramping up nicely in 2016.
Moving on to Latin America we've identified opportunities to set up exchanges much like we do in the U.S.
where critical data assets are not currently available.
We've already received regulatory approval in one country and we'll be finalizing our plans by the end of the year.
As you know the exchanges have been very successful in the U.S.
with good margins and good competitive differentiation helping our customers in ways we couldn't help before.
We're really excited about what this might bring us in this one country.
If it's successful there bring it across to other Latin American countries.
In Canada we launched a six-month pilot for an e-commerce site to provide online delivery for our business and consumer credit product offerings.
This distribution channel will be very attractive to our SME customers while also addressing a growing market demand in other verticals and potentially other geographies.
And we recently signed a global agreement with a large international telecom to create new analytical insights using telecom usage data.
Ultimately the analytical insights will be sold to financial institutions retailers and other customers in our served markets to facilitate decisioning on consumers who have limited or no credit information.
This partnership is significant for Equifax as a new source of rich data for consumers in Latin America which is typically a negative data-only geography.
We're starting with risk scores that are developed from our telecom data to address the pain point of FIN (10:42) file and no-hit at the point of acquisition.
Over time we'll expand this beyond account acquisition to other decisioning needs.
For the full year we expect the International revenue growth to be solidly in the upper end of their long-term growth range which is 7% to 10%.
We continue to grow – invest in their long-term growth initiatives.
On to Workforce Solutions; they again delivered an outstanding broad-based 23% revenue growth and a operating margin of 38.3% and they're doing a great job of executing with precision on their strategic objectives.
Revenue from all of our Affordable Care Act initiatives continued to accelerate nicely.
And with the recent Supreme Court decision we anticipate continued strong demand for our product offerings in this area.
Our ACA platform solutions which enables companies to know the extent of their compliance with the Affordable Care Act continue to benefit from very strong interest.
We now have contracts with numerous employers who in aggregate now have 10 million employees on their payroll.
In June alone we signed 62 new customer contracts.
We're uniquely positioned to add value in the healthcare vertical and we will be making important investments to drive further long-term revenue growth and market penetration.
The strong growth in Verification Services was driven by – continue to add records new records to The Work Number database also double-digit growth in mortgage originations and continued penetration of non-mortgage market verticals.
In the quarter our non-mortgage market Verification revenue grew 21% virtually every vertical were in strong double-digit for the quarter outstanding performance.
Growth in mortgage-related revenues decelerated in the second quarter a trend that we – will continue – that will continue for the remainder of the year.
However Workforce Solutions success on many of their strategic initiatives should continue to drive very attractive revenue growth.
For the full year we now expect revenue growth to be in the upper teens with margin expansion over 2014 of at least 400 basis points to approximately 37%.
On to PSOL PSOLs growth exceeded our expectation driven by double-digit growth in our indirect channels and our International segments in addition to winning two breach contracts.
Revenue growth for our direct-to-consumer activities in the U.S.
continues to be driven by higher average revenue per subscriber and lower churn.
They've done a great job on both ARPU and churn.
PSOL is making good progress on their transformation efforts and we expect full year organic revenue growth to be at the upper end of the long-term range of 4% to 6% and operating margins for the full year solidly in the range of 25% to 30%.
So again before I go to John with the financial details let me give you some highlights at the corporate level quickly.
Some things we've talked about in the past that are very critical to our sustained organic growth.
You've heard me talk about NPI 2.0 and you've heard me talk about EGI as critically important growth initiatives.
In NPI 2.0 we've developed detailed metrics to better manage our pipeline of opportunities to more effectively allocate our resources and track our success on product launches and to minimize time to revenue.
Midway into the year we are now 10% over our revenue target and so the team is doing a great job of executing again in NPI.
Enterprise Growth Initiatives we call it EGI where we're focused on larger more complex projects that frequently engage multiple parts of the organization but also have a much bigger impact on our revenue growth.
EGI is delivering again 1 to 2 points of revenue growth annually for us.
In Global Operations that COE continues to make important contributions to our bottom line.
Within the operations COE you've heard us talk about LEAN initiatives which traditionally have been used internally.
We've talked a lot about that.
However with the increased level of competition and regulatory requirements in many of our industry verticals there are many new opportunities for incremental revenue growth when we leverage LEAN within our customers operations.
Our global LEAN teams now are currently engaged with over 20 great customers helping to drive operational improvements that are critical to their success while adding yet another element of differentiation for our business in the marketplace.
So our customers become stronger more efficient and it helps us differentiate versus competition and secure incremental revenue.
On to our fraud and identity management business they're presently broadening to incorporate biometrics in mobile device resolution via partnerships.
We're also looking to taking on more successful products and launching them in other geographies.
It's a practice we've done in other parts of the business.
Now we're intentionally taking fraud and ID products from one part of the world to other geographies where it makes sense.
In summary the business is off to a solid start this year with high levels of execution across many of our strategic initiatives and we're well down the path of changing Equifax from a credit bureau into a truly diversified information solutions company.
Our domain expertise and analytics and technology enables us to increasingly deliver powerful insights to our customers and enhance their decision making.
All of our business units continue to work hard to deliver on their commitments to the company our customers employees and shareholders.
And as we move into the second half of 2015 and start to look at 2016 I strongly believe the prospects for consumer credit and the developed markets in which we operate especially the U.S.
look very good.
The dynamics are shaping up as a sweet spot now for consumer credit growth.
And with that let me turn over to John for the financials.
John? Thanks Rick and good morning everyone.
As before I'll be referring to the financial results from continuing operations generally presented on a GAAP basis.
During the quarter we recorded an impairment charge of $14.8 million or $9.8 million after-tax related to our cost method investment in DBS.
The impairment is in general a result of the weakened economic situation in Brazil.
We also recorded an $8.6 million after-tax gain due to a state income tax benefit resulting from a state tax law change enacted during the quarter.
The net of these two unusual items was negative $0.01 per share.
Consistent with our past practice for treating unusual or infrequent items we've excluded these items from our adjusted EPS in order to provide investors with a more consistent period to period operating comparison.
Now let me turn to the business unit's financial performance for the second quarter.
U.S.
Information Solutions revenue was $360 million up 12% when compared to the second quarter of 2014.
Online Information Solutions revenue was $233 million up 13% when compared to the year-ago period.
Mortgage Solutions revenue was $33 million up 20% compared to Q2 of 2014 this compares favorably to the mortgage bankers application index which was up 16% in the second quarter.
Financial Marketing Services revenue was $50 million up 4% when compared to the year-ago quarter and the operating margin for U.S.
Information Solutions was 42.1% up from 39.5% in the second quarter of 2014.
International revenue was $148 million down 1% on a reported basis but up 11% on a local currency basis.
By region Europe's revenue was $63 million down 1% in U.S.
dollars but up 12% in local currency.
Latin America's revenue was $51 million up 6% in U.S.
dollars and 18% in local currency.
Canada revenue was $35 million down 10% in U.S.
dollars but up 2% in local currency.
For the second quarter International's operating margin was 19.9% down from 21.9% in the second quarter of 2014.
Although the operating margin fell short of our expectations we have a number of very exciting growth opportunities Rick has discussed that were an incremental investment and management focus.
Workforce Solutions revenue was $146 million for the quarter up 23% when compared to the second quarter of 2014.
Verification Services with revenue of $94 million was up 30% when compared to the same quarter of last year.
Employer Services revenue was $52 million up 11% compared to last year growth was aided by our ACA analytical solution and further progress with Compliance Center.
The Workforce Solutions operating margin was 38.3% compared to 33.9% in Q2 of 2014.
Personal solutions revenue was $68 million up 7% on a reported basis and up 8% on a local currency basis.
For the second quarter operating margin was 27.6% compared to 30.9% in Q2 of 2014.
This margin is consistent with our longer term expectation for this business as we primarily driven by increased marketing expense during the quarter.
In the second quarter general corporate expense at $48.5 million was slightly over the guidance we gave last year.
The increase versus our guidance and from the $36.6 million in 2Q of 2014 was principally due to increased incentive compensation expense due to our very strong performance in 2015.
We also had increased salaries and benefits and other investment expense primarily related to our key strategic initiatives.
Looking at the third and fourth quarter we expect general corporate expense to be approximately $45 million per quarter consistent with 2014 levels.
Operating margin at 27.8% was very strong.
Operating cash flow was $187 million in the quarter.
We continued our aggressive stock buyback activity repurchasing 0.9 million shares for $92 million and paying $34 million in dividends to our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it back to Rick.
Thanks John.
Consistent with our guidance last quarter we expect continued favorable economic conditions in the U.S.
span the majority of our non-mortgage verticals.
I'll talk about mortgage in a second.
Internationally we continue to expect uneven economic conditions across Europe and Latin America.
Our view of the U.S.
mortgage market in the second half of 2015 is roughly consistent with our prior guidance as we expect U.S.
mortgage market originations to be up slightly in the second half of 2015 versus the same period of 2014.
We are however increasing our full-year view for 2015 mortgage originations to be up somewhere between 11% and 13% versus 2014.
The U.S.
mortgage market was stronger than our expectations in the first half of the year with originations up approximately 20% versus last year.
And again we'll talk about the nuances and the impact of moving from a refinancing mortgage market to a purchase market which we are in the process of doing the benefits that has for our company.
For the third quarter we expect organic revenue to be between $655 million and $670 million reflecting constant currency organic growth between 10% and 12% partially offset by about 3% FX headwind.
Adjusted EPS is expected to be between $1.08 and $1.11 a share which is up 7% to 10% excluding $0.03 per share of negative impact from FX.
This reflects constant currency organic EPS growth of 10% to 13%.
We also expect operating margin to be in the range of 27% to 27.5% for the quarter.
For the full year we've again increased our guidance for revenue and adjusted EPS.
We expect now 2015 revenue to be between $2.645 billion and $2.67 billion up from our previous guidance which was $2.585 billion to $2.635 billion and reflects constant currency organic revenue growth of 11% to 12% for the year.
This strong revenue growth is partially offset again by approximately 3% negative FX impact.
And as before this is all organic revenue growth.
2015 adjusted EPS is now expected to be in the range of $4.38 to $4.42 a share also up from our previous guidance and this reflects 13% to 14% EPS growth for the year.
On a constant currency basis excluding $0.10 per share negative impact of FX at current rates this reflects 15% to 16% growth for the year compared to 11% growth in 2011.
In summary we're also more intently focused now on strategic inorganic growth as we have developed a more robust pipeline of potential opportunities now that we have fully integrated TDX into our operations.
So as we've talked to you in the past intent was to be more focused on that as we exit 2015 and into 2016 we're ready to do just that.
So that's all the prepared comments.
So operator if you could please open up for Q&amp;A for John and I that would be great.
Certainly.
We'll go first to Andre Benjamin at Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I was hoping to maybe dig a little bit more into Verification.
I didn't know if you would be able to provide any color on how much of the revenue is coming from your success penetrating autos versus the ACA contract which has been ramping nicely versus other verticals? And if there are any others maybe a little bit of color on where you're seeing the most traction? Sure.
As I briefly alluded to in my comments the trends we saw emerging in 2014 and clearly into the first quarter of 2015 are continuing.
It is extremely broad-based.
So think about the growth first and foremost on the Verification side being as we continue to add records that's all incremental revenue right there and they've been adding records for a long time now.
Secondly Mortgage obviously is strong.
Third as I alluded to in my comments almost every – in fact I think it is every non-mortgage vertical is growing strong strong double digits.
That's pre-employment that's collections that's automotive that's card I can go on and on and on extremely strong.
And then as you mentioned the Workforce Analytics we continue to add customers there I said 10 million.
Consumers are now being or employees are now being monitored and 62 clients alone in the month of June.
So it is as broad-based a performance of growth as you could hope for in EWS.
It is just spectacular.
And then in the indirect channel you mentioned the Credit Karma relationship continues to ramp and contribute nicely.
One are you willing to disclose any amount that that is actually contributing? And two as that seems to be performing a little bit better than you expected how are you thinking about the potential to aggressively push to work with other partners? Great question.
It's still early so we gave you a number earlier in the year it's ahead of that right at this juncture but we still have 6 months in the year to go.
So it's hard to say where that goes for the full year at this time.
It's been very successful.
We like the model and as we've talked to you in the past we look at that deed to see be it through a business to a consumer or direct-to-consumer as one unified strategy.
So in this particular case we have our PSOL unit and USIS working together strategically to make sure this makes sense not just short-term but long-term.
And yes there's nothing to prevent us from looking at taking the success we've had with Credit Karma and either doing it ourselves directly or doing it with other indirect players.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we'll go next to Jeff Meuler at Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you.
I guess one of the things that jumped out to me Rick is even getting out to Q3 as you start anniversarying the mortgage weakness still guiding to 10% to 12% constant currency growth.
And as you talk about the business it sounds like almost every business unit is at or above the long-term guidance ranges.
So is there anything that is unsustainable in the growth rate? Or said another way when you're in the sweet spot of the consumer credit cycle in some of the larger developed markets can you sustainably grow above the longer-term targets? That's obviously something we'll develop over time.
It's something we keep a close eye on Jeff.
It depends on the horizon you're looking at.
It's specific to the third quarter guidance maybe the second half guidance.
You're right it's not just every business unit it's the sub-business units within those business units and the sub-sub.
So that could be the auto vertical within International but also the auto vertical within all the countries in International performing extremely well is very very broad-based and their executions at extremely high level.
Let me use your question to respond to something I briefly alluded to in my comments which is the nuances of mortgage and how mortgage impacts our thinking for the balance of the year and next year.
And you guys know this as well as we do the world is going the U.S.
market is going from a heavily refinancing distribution to now back to more the normal distribution which is heavily skewed towards purchases and less and less towards refinancing.
And while the overall mortgaging market will soften I think it clearly is going to soften second half of this year versus the first half 2016 will be less than – maybe modestly up from 2015.
The nuance that's positive for us is that when you go from a refinancing market to a home-purchase market it's actually a benefit.
In many cases individual bank policies may not require them to pull a VOE/VOI: verification of employment verification of income.
When you do a purchase they pull a VOE/VOI.
Secondly when you go to a refinancing from refinancing to purchase you're going to pull as we've told you in the past far more credit files.
Your broker may pull the credit file; you as a consumer may shop the four different banks five different banks each time pulling a file.
In refinancing you don't do that.
They may pull one file.
So even though the mortgage market growth rates will slow as we go forward including in third quarter we think there's some hidden gems in there for us as you rebalance to a purchase market.
Also as you do the math on the full year since we've given you full-year guidance and guidance for the third quarter as you back into the fourth quarter what you see is our revenue growth rates on a constant-currency basis are moving back down toward our long-term averages.
Right? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Fair enough.
And then I know NPI 2.0 is still a little bit early but are you seeing signs that you're going to get more call it extra-base hits out of the NPI 2.0 products? Clearly.
I alluded to that I think in my comments that we had exceeded our budget by 10% for the quarter.
But it's that combined with the topic we've talked about now for a few quarters which is Cambrian.
You can't underestimate; this has been a multi-year heavy investment that now gives us the ability to partner with our customers and build products in seconds where it used to take weeks or months and that fuels NPI as well.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you and hats off to you and the broader team.
Thank you very much.
We'll take our next question from Shlomo Rosenbaum at Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you very much for taking my questions.
Hey Rick I was wondering if you could if not quantitatively maybe qualitatively talk a little bit about the volume the growth that's in USIS.
Maybe where you're getting tailwinds or how much you can attribute to tailwind from the end markets which you've talked about is getting better? And how much more just some of the initiatives that you've been very aggressive about for like besides the Credit Karma there is also things like fraud initiatives ID identification and other things out there? So I guess how much is market versus how much is you guys just trying to anticipate where the best places are to be? Good question.
I think there's no single answer.
I'd say generically in the U.S.
and I think I said this somewhere in my comments we're expecting improved economic environments.
I talked about moving to a sweet spot in consumer credit as you exit this year and go into 2016.
It's not robust yet in the U.S.; it's improving.
The nuance or the difference there would be the automotive obviously very strong and we've benefited from that.
But we've also benefited – we're growing at rates multiples of the automotive growth rates as you know Shlomo through our Connector Strategy which we're partners and new product introduction.
Card we're seeing pre-screen pick up which is encouraging and that should lead to more card revenue going forward.
Insurance is strong retail banking is strong.
So it's fairly broad-based.
But the heart of your question is other than automotive the majority of the USIS growth that we're experiencing is not – some of it's economically driven but more of it's driven by new product innovation more spend with our customers leveraging D360 things like that versus the market itself.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's what I'm getting at.
So your sense is that it's being in the right places and the initiatives that you guys have put forward versus just the rising tide lifting all boats? And I think the rising tide will lift all boats eventually but yes.
We've been at D360 for god's sake I think it's in 2007 so eight years.
And all the things we've done by leveraging D360 then building Cambrian building NPI it's those things by and large that are driving more of our core organic growth in the U.S.
than it is the economic environment.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then just turning to International clearly top line growth and the ability to drive the top line is the key.
Can you talk about the things that impacted the margin that are really longer term efforts that you're making towards driving that top line growth? Yeah absolutely.
It's consistent with what we've talked about before.
There's two big things we're doing.
And one the beauty is Shlomo before I give you the two things we're doing is John and I have the luxury to invest in areas where we need to invest and PSOL is one of them.
We've been investing in that for a couple of years as an example.
We told you we'll accelerate the growth there from our competitors but the margins will come down 25% to 30%.
We also told you we're going to invest in International for long-term growth and profitability.
We can do those things and still give you – we've told you what we're going to do which is a 25 basis point to 50 basis point corporate margin expansion.
We've done that and I think margins were up 120 basis points in the first quarter and 50 basis points in the second quarter.
Specific to your question though there are two things we're investing in in International which I firmly believe benefit us long term.
One is the government contract we talked about in the UK.
That is a large complicated investment that we've had to make that's required resources from around the globe to stand up this environment to be ready to go live end of the third quarter early fourth quarter.
And I think we've talked to you about that now as a group for a few quarters.
So that's one.
The other has been with our ability now to standardize platforms we're now going to regional centers in International and there's a cost associated with moving from replicating processes in every country to regionalizing those processes in fewer countries.
So there's an investment required to get this.
Those are two things we're investing in now as well as NPI but we always do that.
That will bode well long-term but create some headwinds in margin short-term.
And just near-term what you're seeing in the first half of this year is we just have a revenue mix change right? We talked about Canada being a little weaker a lot of it because of FX.
There's an FX impact but also Canada is a very high-margin country for us similar to USIS.
So when Canada is weaker it affects our International margins.
Great point.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Last one just if I can squeeze in.
Hey John how much more can you squeeze out of these DSOs? You have pretty healthy DSO.
They continue to trend down.
Is there really room to go over there when I think about cash flow or how should I think about that? That continues to be an area of focus.
Obviously a lot of that's driven by mix as well.
DSOs internationally are a bit higher and since you've seen pretty good local currency growth internationally that does negatively impact DSOs.
But it's something we continue to focus on and obviously we'll hope to squeeze them down over time.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
We'll go next to Paul Ginocchio at Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking my question.
Just the 62 contracts in ACA analytics how does that relate to the total contracts? And then just on the acquisitions I would assume you're focused on more consumer data than say industrial data.
Are you looking for tuck-ins or you're thinking about doing – is there something larger out there or are you ready for larger deals if they're available? Hi Paul.
Thank you.
I can't recall – does anyone here recall the number of contracts we signed in EWS? Hold on I'm looking at the guys; we're getting different -we have – Jeff what's the number? Over 200.
462.
462 by the end of the year.
And 62 signed and he's saying – how many contracts have we already signed year-to-date? Okay.
I'm being told Paul because I don't have it off the top of my head over 200.
So 62 in one month is a big number.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
And the second question on acquisitions thank you team for your great work there.
On acquisitions yeah probably not sure I can disclose the details but yeah we do a good job of tuck-ins.
So it would fit our strategy which is data analytics geographical expansion and I'll leave it at that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll move next to Gary Bisbee at RBC Capital Markets.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Just a question on Workforce Solutions and particularly the work number.
It's obviously been a terrific asset as you've built out the database and expanded the end markets that that data's used in.
How much runway's left on each of those strategies? And I guess looking at the – outside of mortgage which can move around you've seen pretty steady acceleration in that over the last year.
What could slow the non-mortgage growth there as we think over the next year? Thanks Gary.
Let me regress for a second since I think we now have the actual data for Paul's question.
Paul on the Workforce Analytics contracts signed last year was 244 for the total year 2014 ramping up nicely.
It'll probably be more than that this year and 62 within the month of June alone.
Gary back to your question what's driving and how sustainable is the non-mortgage growth in EWS was that the heart of your question? Yeah just the work numbers seem to have gained a lot of momentum in the last year that...
Okay.
...and what's the runway on that? How sustainable is it? Very sustainable.
Dann has done a hell of a job taking a very good business and bringing it to a new level.
When we told you we talked about this for quite some time we have a path to get the records up to 300 million and every time you add a record you get multiple bites of the apple it becomes more valuable for more verticals.
You have revenue added just incrementally for that record being added.
So that's one.
Two Workforce Analytics are in the very early stages.
The IRS piece of the Workforce Analytics goes live in February of 2016.
So we haven't even experienced that revenue growth yet.
The non-verification piece of EWS we've got a great leader in there doing a great job of thinking.
That business no longer is just protecting the work number but innovating investing in efficiency for our customers and making the customer experience better taking that business from virtually a no growth to a nicely growing business.
So as I look Gary at the portfolio of assets we have I have told our investors this time and time again I think they're all really well positioned for long term multi-year growth.
The one that's got I think the most significant growth opportunities over a multi-year period of time is in fact EWS.
And given that I guess what are the prospects to try to begin to build something like the Work Number in other countries? It seems like it's been such a home run that I realize it probably would take years but is that something that's on your radar? Clearly.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yep.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Manav Patnaik of Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Obviously there's a lot of good internal initiatives like you said driving a lot of that organic growth.
I just wanted to touch on your comments on we're entering the sweet spot of the credit cycle.
Can you give us some reference from your experience how long that cycle can last? What are some of the signs to look for in terms of how well that's progressing? Maybe just a little bit of color on that.
Yeah sure.
I'll give you my view but there's others economists that we obviously deal with that could give you their view banks will give you their view.
But here's why I described it that way.
I intentionally described it in our larger developed markets so the UK Canada and U.S.
I underlined or underscored particularly the U.S.
What you've got is the emergence of obviously higher employment rates or unemployment rates starting to see wage growth starting to see home price growth continued home price growth consumer confidence is growing.
The banks are stronger now than they have ever been so their ability to lend to those that want to borrow is as strong now is becoming as strong now as it's been since maybe the 2005 2006 2007 timeframe.
So that's why I'm saying I feel like in those countries specifically we're moving into what I view as a sweet spot for consumer credit.
Obviously that benefits us.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of – Rick we always talk about the NPI and the aspirations have obviously continued to push that goal up.
It sounded like obviously even though this quarter at least significantly exceeded your expectations.
Can you – I think in one of the previous questions you said momentum looks like it should continue.
But real preliminary looking into 2016 do you still think you guys will continue this momentum and do the above average growth you guys have been doing? Emphatically yes and it's not just NPI 2.0 but it's something I think we introduced to you and I alluded to today can't remember when we introduced it Jeff but the EGI Enterprise Growth Initiatives you can't underestimate that as well.
And that's adding one or two points of growth annually for us on top of what we get from NPI.
So it's a combination of those two is truly in our DNA and doesn't mean we've become complacent about it but now we've got to continue to make sure we reinvigorate it reinvent it that's why we took a timeout and introduced 2.0 and that's why we introduced EGI maybe three or four years ago is we've always got to challenge ourselves of finding different ways to innovate for our customers.
And with that success that helps us be confident in the 6% to 8% organic growth model that we continue to focus on.
That's a lot.
Inc.</span></strong> Again just last one.
Is there any update to the TDX UK contract? Yes I gave a few brief highlights.
It's moving along very well.
We still have the technical environment.
We've cleared almost every operational hurdle that the government has asked for and we expect to go live – I think our first data feed is this week next week and really start going live late third quarter and into early fourth quarter.
Really consistent with what we talked about maybe nine months ago modest revenue in the fourth quarter and ramping up nicely in the first quarter 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Bill Warmington at Wells Fargo.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So for PSOL what's going on in the affinity business? And that market's been quiet for years but now it's coming back to life.
Why is that and are you guys participating in that? I'm looking at it.
It's starting to come back.
It's a – we're not as heavily focused in the affinity market as others are.
We're heavily focused in the indirect market and I think I alluded to in my earnings notes that that's growing strong double digits for us but we're not a heavy player in the affinity market.
Yeah? Well then in – back in April you announced a new version of the FICO score that you see.
NCTUE data helped generate a FICO score for consumers that didn't have sufficient data in their credit files to do a traditional FICO score.
So how is that pilot going and does it have a chance to become a meaningful contributor to revenue for you some day? Yeah I think so.
It's early days but I think any time we can help our customers be it banks or telcos get transparency and better insights into the under-banked they win the under-banked win and we win.
I alluded to the fact in one of the Latin American countries we're building capabilities with an exchange at transparency in that exact segment.
There is nothing to do with the FICO score that you're talking about leveraging on utility database.
But it's the same concept how to get transparency to the under-banked? And I think if we do that smartly and the FICO score is one way to do that again that's a win-win-win.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Andrew Steinerman at JPMorgan.
Hey Rick you chose to highlight you feel good about 2016.
I just wanted to make sure I got the revenue movers the needles that you could see right now at this point that influence 2016? So what I picked up was your view on the strengthening consumer credit application environment the UK government contract ramping with in-depth placement and obviously the multiyear pass for Workforce Solutions.
Are there any other drivers that you see today that influences your 2016 view? No I'll give you – so it's a continuation of all things we do which is NPI EGI LEAN operational excellence of execution blah blah blah.
But the macro things yes.
a healing U.S.
economy moving us into the sweet spot of consumer credit and same with the UK same with Canada the TDX contract as you alluded to as well and then EWS continue to go through ACA.
All right.
And if you would just call out a vertical for 2016 that you feel like is strengthening what vertical do you feel has the ability to break out in 2016? I'd say that management obviously with the addition of a government contract in UK and I'd say Workforce Analytics clearly will be another big step up.
Auto I think the market in the U.S.
auto market will be modestly up versus this year but I think there's still another year of great growth prospects for us as we continue to mature with our strategy there.
So those are a couple.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
Next we'll go to David Togut at Evercore ISI.
Thank you.
Good morning Rick and John.
Hello David.
Hello.
I apologize.
I joined the call a few minutes late.
But did you disclose Rick the number of active Work Number records? No.
I did not.
I talked – someone asked the question David I can't recall who it was.
I apologize for that but – about Work Number and I talked about long-term growth and we have a path and a strategy to get our total records to 300 million David maybe about a year or two ago.
I've intentionally talked less about the active – that's growing nicely by the way.
It's growing very nicely and on path to do everything we want it to do.
But I'm talking more about this path the 300 million records because there was a misnomer that I feel maybe eight years ago with EWS in that there was more value or perceived value in active versus total.
We derive a lot of value from the historical records as well.
So in an attempt to make sure everyone understood that we're really talking about getting the total database up to 300 million.
We're on our way.
Understood.
And then just shifting gears you talked about Credit Karma a little bit.
What experience have you had in up selling from the indirect channel higher value-added Equifax services? Within PSOL or within Credit Karma? Well from the Credit Karma relationship specifically.
Very little.
Okay.
Is that – yeah...
That's an opportunity long-term.
Okay.
Is that difficult to do? No it just hasn't been a priority yet.
It's just getting the relationship understood stood up and running but it's something the team can look at long-term.
Understood.
And a quick final question.
Longer term thoughts on Brazil and how your relationship with Boa Vista will evolve? Good question.
Thank you for asking that.
Medium term I know your question was long-term medium-term whatever the hell that means I'm bearish on Brazil.
Politically economically it's in a down cycle.
I'm not sure if that's another two years three years but it's tough.
Secondly there's – I think everyone knows there was a law passed a couple years ago to include positive data which we thought was a positive no pun intended there.
There's a cloud over that possibility.
It is likely or possible that the positive bureau was in fact controlled and built by the banks much like Serasa – if you remember Serasa of old on the negative data it was built.
So I'm not sure strategically what that does to the Brazilian market long-term.
So right now I've always said before I get aggressive in doing this step up my – our ownership in Brazil I've got to really understand what the economy is going to do and how long is it going to be in this downtrodden environment and where does the positive bureau go.
And I think we have clarity on the latter the positive bureau probably in the next 12 months and we'll make a decision at that point in time.
In the meantime they're good partners.
TMG is a good partner Boa Vista is a good partner.
We continue to work with them to make sure they are as successful as possible.
Understood.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Brett Huff at Stephens Inc.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Sure.
Inc.</span></strong> You talked a little bit about EGI and I think it's the first time you've called out maybe 1 or 2 points of growth from that.
And I was – it seems like that that was more than in my mind that that might be contributing.
And I guess I have a two-part question.
One is when you're sort of duking it out for wallet share with the other bureaus and the other relevant players what's helping you win in that relationship? Is it just the long-term relationship? Is it the incremental unique datasets you have et cetera? And then number two what takes that to the next level? Is it just execution and going through just systematically each of your top 50 customers or whatever it is? Or is there another gear in EGI that helps us even accelerate from 1 to 2 points.
Thanks Brett.
I'd say one we've got good competitors and I respect our competitors.
They do a good job in the marketplace and we got D&amp;B (53:20) or Experian or local competitors in local countries.
Two you can't underestimate the power of having good people and we've been blessed to have some really good talented committed people.
Then beyond that I'd say there's no doubt that innovation be it through EGI or NPI really leveraged by unique data assets has been a huge differentiator over the years.
And I tell people that the growth in that area of innovation isn't always or even largely share gain.
It is in some cases clearly Brett.
But it is solving problems that no one else can solve.
So if they used to spend $100 in the ecosystem if they're now spending $110 we get the incremental $10 spend.
That's really where the great leverage is.
And then the other thing is – where was I going to go.
Cameron (54:20) obviously will be an enabler long-term for us so beyond that how do you sustain that? I think it's sustainable mid-term and long-term as I mentioned to someone else's question earlier.
We've got to continue to reinvent ourselves remain contemporary.
I think we've also got to say what is the next asset we need that adds value to our customers that are our competition or the marketplace is not adding today.
So in our strategic planning process we always think about what is next.
Obviously I would not allude to that here but that's something we think about.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
That's what I needed.
Thanks for your time.
Thanks Brett.
And we'll move next to Gary Bisbee at RBC Capital Markets.
Hi just one quick follow-up.
Given the momentum in the ACA compliance offering do you feel like all companies or the vast majority of companies you are trying to get that together this year and then you've got a much tougher comp for that next year? Or is this going to be a multi-year thing where you broaden out the analytics and are able to sell into that customer base? Well clearly multi-year.
I mean people are going to get – I can promise you this the majority of companies when we talk to CEOs we've talked to the chief HR officers they're thinking about this today and they're either looking to us or someone else in the marketplace to solve those problems or they're trying to build their own homegrown solutions and if they're out of compliance they're going to get fined.
As those fines start to mount their need for solutions go up and the urgency for the solutions go up.
Secondly I alluded Gary in my comments that the IRS piece of the compliance goes live February of next year so we haven't even monetized that yet to its fullest extent.
So I think if it's a baseball analogy the Workforce analytics potential is in the very early innings of its growth.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I will turn it back over to management for any closing remarks.
I want to thank everybody for their time and their interest and their support of Equifax.
And with that we'll conclude the call.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Equifax Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to today's conference call.
I'm Jeff Dodge Investor Relations.
And with me today are Rick Smith Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and John Gamble Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section in the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
During this call we will be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our core business are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2014 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
During this call we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax and adjusted operating margin.
It will be adjusted for certain items which affect the comparability of the underlying operational performance.
For the third quarter of 2015 adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax excluded acquisition-related amortization expense income from the settlement of certain escrow amounts and an accrual for certain legal claims.
Adjusted operating margin excludes the accrual for certain legal claims.
In fourth quarter of 2015 and 2016 adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax will also exclude due diligence transaction and integration cost related to the proposed acquisition of Veda Group.
These non-GAAP measures are detailed in the reconciliation tables included with our earnings release and also posted on our website.
Also please refer to our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website for further details.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff.
Good morning everyone.
As always thank you for joining us this morning.
Our strong first half momentum continued throughout the third quarter with very solid broad-based growth across most of our key market segments and countries.
The momentum combined with solid execution from the team and one of the deepest NPI pipelines we've had in all the past 10 years positions us well as we move into the fourth quarter and in 2016.
And in my comments later on this morning I'll give you further look at both the fourth quarter as we always do and 2016 as well.
The Equifax's strategy is clearly resonating well with our customers.
Our core disciplines and new product innovation LEAN IT simplification regulatory compliance and talent assessment are enabling stronger more consistent execution across all of our initiatives.
For the quarter total revenue was $667 million up 9% on reported basis and up 12% on local currency basis from the third quarter of 2014.
And it was at the high end of our guidance.
In the quarter FX created a $22 million year-over-year headwind up from the second quarter headwind which was $19 million.
Adjusted operating margin was 27.2% up nicely from 26.4% in the third quarter of 2014.
Adjusted EPS was $1.14 up 13% from $1.01 last year and above the upper end of our guidance range that we provided back a few months ago.
As always before John gives you the financial details I'd like to briefly cover some of the key highlights for the third quarter.
USIS has continued to power forward with 12% revenue growth and had a robust pipeline and opportunities to provide continued unique insights incorporating our multiple data assets.
USIS delivered very solid broad-based growth in fraud and identity management solutions and commercial information.
Both those business units were up double-digit versus 2014.
Mortgage direct-to-consumer and automotive were also very strong growth drivers for the quarter.
And like the rest of the company USIS is also benefiting from broad-based growth from NPI and our enterprise growth initiatives.
Little more on NPI there are four strategic levers to USIS efforts around new product innovation.
They are: one accelerating growth by linking most relevant data with expanded analytic capabilities; two investing in vertical expertise to drive unparalleled insights; three focusing on customer experience through optimized enterprise distribution; and four diversifying portfolio growth across the value chain.
An interesting point is that almost 60% of the anticipated three-year NPI revenue is focused on opportunities beyond the more traditional credit risk solutions that you know us for.
Finally this week we announced a very exciting opportunity with Fannie Mae.
You may have read that.
Fannie Mae will begin incorporating Equifax trended data in addition to our verified employment and income from The Work Number database.
The trended data provides new insights to lenders by expanding the credit information to aid their assessment of risk using updated analytical tools.
Integrating The Work Number into Fannie Mae's underwriting system will make the process simpler for consumers and reduce the potential for fraud.
We believe this will be a win-win for the consumers as well as the mortgage industry.
There's some work to be done on our side and as a result the revenue opportunity is expected to start sometime in the second or third quarter of next year.
It will be a nice impact for both USIS and EWS.
USIS is having an outstanding year in 2015.
For the full year we expect them to deliver double-digit organic revenue growth and operating margins comfortably exceeding 40%.
On to International they delivered 14% local currency revenue growth leveraging the diversity in its core customer verticals new product innovation and unique platforms in decisioning fraud and debt management.
As you know we are now in the midst of starting up the UK government project that we've talked to you about now for a few quarters.
We have provided Equifax consumer data to one government agency and have now received approximately £265 million of past-due receivables that we're now loading and analyzing and will soon move on to the collection agencies.
As we have mentioned before we expect nominal revenue growth in the fourth quarter of this year but we expect that to ramp up nicely in 2016.
In summary as it relates to that project it is on track on pace and meeting our expectations.
In addition we are currently exceeding our expectations with the TDX business in places like Australia and we're launching that platform across many other countries throughout the remainder of 2015 and into 2016.
In fact it's already making a point here as you think about the TDX platform the debt management platform in 2016 it will then be dispersed through multiple countries as opposed to one central P&amp;L that you are used to seeing or can see and we can talk about in the UK.
Also in International new product innovation continues to be a very important contributor to International's long-term growth.
Their focus is in areas of analytical insights enhanced decision solutions new verticals and distribution channels and broadening their data assets.
Revenue in International's three largest verticals: financial institutions telcos and SMEs grew 17% in the third quarter versus a healthy 13% in the second quarter of 2015.
The decisioning platforms our analytical services and our debt management revenue grew 19% in the quarter accelerating from 17% in the second quarter of the year.
In 2015 International successfully executed on its strategic initiatives and captured some very important business opportunities that will transform and further broaden its growth profile in the coming years.
For the full year we expect International revenue growth to be above their long-term range that we've talked about of 7% to 10% growth.
Workforce Solutions which has had a stellar performance I think you'll agree for the year grew 13% revenue from its continued traction in its compliance solution products driving market penetration for verification of employment and income and some very sophisticated analytical insights.
Employer interest in our workforce analytics solutions for the Affordable Care Act remains extremely strong.
Our subscription-based ACA platform solution which enables companies to better understand their level of compliance with the requirements of ACA is one of our most successful NPI initiatives in my 10 years here.
We're now expecting to have over 700 clients by the end of this year and we're still getting a large number of inbound requests which bodes well for EWS and the Employer Services business within EWS for 2016 and beyond.
In addition to our core product offering focus on compliance we're also exploring other opportunities that will enable us to address evolving market needs including fines and penalties under the Act and any related appeals that follow.
We believe this will further enhance our position in the marketplace and make us an even more valuable partner to our big customers.
New product innovation continues to make a very meaningful contribution to revenue growth for EWS.
We now expect to end the year with a Vitality Index of over 11% versus our target of 10% at the beginning of the year.
Earlier this week EWS was honored for the second year in a row with a Product of the Year Award by the editors of Human Resource magazine.
Our I-9 Anywhere product is a cutting-edge service that enables organizations to streamline their Form I-9 immigration form completion process using remote entry for applicants.
We're also exceeding our year-to-date targets for both active and historical records in The Work Number database and expect to end the year over our full-year targets.
Verification Services growth was in excess of 20% and continues to be driven by adding records to The Work Number database and strong growth in key market verticals including auto mortgage consumer finance government and pre-employment.
Workforce Solutions has had an outstanding year in 2015 by almost any measure driving very healthy double-digit revenue growth across multiple product offerings.
And for the full year we expect revenue growth to be in the upper-teens and operating margins to settle in the upper 30%s.
Against the backdrop of a changing operating environment PSOL is consistently delivering growth in the upper end of the multi-year target range of 4% to 6%.
We continue to make good progress in key metrics for our direct-to-consumer product offerings.
In indirect we have a broad and diverse set of opportunities in the pipeline much of which is outside of the banking sector.
We expect indirect to make meaningful contributions to revenue growth again in 2016.
And we continue to generate good growth in our International segments as you know that includes Canada and the UK.
Revenue growth for our direct-to-consumer activities in the U.S.
was largely driven by higher average revenue per subscriber in the quarter.
For the full year we expect Personal Solutions organic revenue growth to be within their long-term range of 4% to 6% with healthy operating margins in the upper 20%s.
Let me transition back just for a second for a few highlights that we've talked about to you in the past at the corporate level rather than the BU level and those are NPI and EGI.
They continue to make very important contributions to our long-term growth model provide strong discipline around the allocation of both financial and human capital resources enabling us to execute with precision.
Year-to-date our new product pipeline is expected to deliver three-year revenue that is 50% greater than the 2014 pipeline.
As I mentioned earlier in my comments that's probably the strongest I've seen since I've been here in 10 years and that bodes well obviously for 2016 and beyond.
All of our enterprise growth initiatives leverage our operating and project management disciplines.
These disciplines ensure that we develop effective plans for execution and then deliver on the goals we set for ourselves.
Our current view for our 2015 portfolio of EGI project suggests that we'll exceed our full-year target by almost 20%.
And much like NPI EGI is becoming a big part of our DNA in every geography and vertical in which we operate.
Our insights-driven strategy is a global strategy and it's heavily dependent upon having contemporary IT platforms that can be implemented globally.
In the past you've heard us talk about InterConnect platform.
It was first developed in the U.S.
and is now used in Canada the UK and Latin America.
We're now in the process of taking a fraud platform exchange that was originally deployed in the UK and successfully deployed in Canada a few years ago and expanding now into U.S.
and across Latin America.
This solution provides advanced analytics and workflow as well as a known fraud exchange focused primarily on account opening process.
The skills and project management expertise in our Global Operations COE is widely regarded and respected internally and by our customers.
This organization was heavily involved in standing up the UK government opportunity for TDX ensuring that we successfully met all of our contractual obligations while positioning us to deliver performance above the portfolio of thresholds for collection effectiveness.
More recently we have conducted a number of customer journeys where we worked directly with customers on the end-to-end process with the objective of improving both the cost effectiveness of our interactions and as importantly their overall experience with us.
I'm sure you're all interested in an update on our offer to acquire the Veda Group in Australia.
I'll share a few thoughts with you there.
We believe this opportunity is a nice strategic fit for Equifax.
It expands our geographic footprint in a core segment that we know very well.
Veda has a strong market position great products and data assets.
They're very profitable and would give us a strong management team in Asia.
We believe Equifax's strength in advanced analytics enterprise growth initiatives new product innovation and others can act to make Veda even stronger.
We're currently early in the process with Veda and at this point our agreements with Veda include a purchase price of AUD 2.825.
They're non-binding.
As you can appreciate the transaction of this size will take considerable time to negotiate and finalize.
We plan to conduct our usual thorough and disciplined due diligence.
Simultaneously we will negotiate the terms and conditions of a purchase agreement.
Subject to successful completion of these steps we would anticipate signing a binding agreement later this year.
The final transaction is subject to the approval of the respective Boards of Directors regulatory approval in Australia as well as Veda shareholders' approval.
If the transaction ultimately goes forward we'd anticipate completion sometime between late February and early April of 2016.
At this point I'm very confident in our ability to effectively integrate Veda should we have the opportunity to do so.
2015 is turning out to be the strongest performance in my time with the company.
As many of you know we started the journey of transforming Equifax into a global leader in information solutions back in 2005.
I believe we can say we have successfully transformed the culture thoughtfully invested our capital to support that vision strengthened our talent base while continuously honoring our commitments to our shareholders customers employees and consumers.
I remain optimistic about the opportunities we have for growth in 2016 and beyond.
And with that let me turn it over to John.
John? Thanks Rick.
And good morning everyone.
As before I will generally be referring to the financial results from continuing operations represented on a GAAP basis.
During the quarter we recorded income of $12 million from the settlement of certain escrow amounts related to an acquisition outside of the measurement period.
We also recorded an expense of $8 million related to the settlement of certain specific legal claims.
Consistent with our past practice for treating unusual or infrequent items we've excluded these items from our adjusted EPS in order to provide investors with a more consistent period-to-period operating comparison.
The after-tax effect of these two unusual items was positive $0.05 a share.
Now let me turn to the business units' financial performance for the quarter.
U.S.
Information Solutions revenue was $312 million up 12% when compared to the third quarter of 2014 another very strong quarter for USIS.
Online Information Solutions revenue was $233 million up 13% when compared to the year ago period.
Mortgage Solutions revenue was $32 million up 12% compared to Q3 2014.
Total mortgage related revenue in USIS was up 20% in the quarter and mortgage related revenue for the total company was up 24%.
This compares favorably to the Mortgage Bankers Application Index which was up 17% in the second quarter.
We currently expect total mortgage originations in the fourth quarter to be down year-over-year.
For 2016 our current outlook is for mortgage originations to be about flat when compared to the full year of 2015.
On to Financial Marketing Services where revenue was $47 million up 6% when compared to the year ago quarter.
The adjusted operating margin for U.S.
Information Solutions was 41.9% up from 40.3% in the third quarter of 2014.
International's revenue was $149 million flat on a reported basis but up 14% on a local currency basis.
By region Europe's revenue was $64 million up 5% in U.S.
dollars but up 16% in local currency.
Latin America's revenue was $52 million up 5% in U.S.
dollars and up 20% in local currency.
Canada revenue was $33 million down 13% in U.S.
dollars but up 5% in local currency.
For the third quarter International's operating margin was about 20% which is flat when compared to the second quarter of 2015.
As we mentioned last quarter we expect International operating margins to remain at about 20% throughout 2015.
We expect margins to increase throughout 2016 reflecting continued strong local currency revenue growth including TDX as the UK government contract begins to contribute as well as the benefits of regionalization and other cost actions.
Workforce Solutions revenue was $139 million for the quarter up 13% when compared to the third quarter of 2014.
Growth for Workforce Solutions at 13% was very strong and continued to be above our long-term model of 7% to 10%.
This reflects continued very strong growth in Verification Services up 22% year-to-year.
The solid growth also reflects the following.
Employer Services revenue principally from unemployment claims compensation claims Work Opportunity Tax Credit and other related employer services declined slightly year-to-year.
This reflects the continued very low levels of U.S.
unemployment as well as the timing of federal WOTC authorizations in 1Q 2015.
Our workforce analytics solution for ACA compliance which is part of our Employer Services business continues to perform well ahead of our expectations as Rick mentioned earlier and now has 700-plus clients in various stages of boarding preparing for 2016 ACA reporting.
However as this is a subscription based service in which the boarding services are offered as part of the service all of the revenue associated with boarding and subscription service fees prior to customer production go live is deferred and amortized over the remaining life of the agreement.
As such despite tremendous growth in customers and activity in the second half of 2015 revenue realization will not begin until very late in 2015 and principally 2016.
Long-term we believe the subscription based model will be greatly beneficial both in terms of customer retention and revenue predictability.
It's also additive to our expectations that Workforce Solutions will continue to grow faster than our long-term 7% to 10% model.
In the remainder of 2015 it will put pressure on Employer Services growth rates.
In 3Q overall Employer Services activity was more heavily skewed to ACA compliance and that revenue was deferred and as we indicated deferred until very late 2015 and predominantly 2016.
The Workforce Solutions operating margin was 35.9% up almost 350 basis points from 3Q 2014.
Workforce Solutions continues to make great progress towards achieving margins consistently near 40%.
Personal Solutions revenue was $67 million up 5% on a reported basis and up 6% on a local currency basis.
For the third quarter operating margin was 26.9% consistent with our long-term expectation for operating margins to be in the upper 20%s.
The year-over-year decline in operating margin is primarily driven by marketing spend at levels more consistent with our long-term expectations.
In the third quarter general corporate expense at $47 million was slightly over the guidance we gave last quarter.
For the fourth quarter we expect general corporate expense to be up slightly from the $47 million in 3Q 2015.
The adjusted operating margin at 27.2% was up from 26.4% in 2014 and in line with our expectations for the quarter.
Our GAAP effective tax rate for the third quarter was 30.8%.
This was benefited by 1.8 percentage points by the very low tax rate on the income from the settlement of the escrow we discussed earlier.
Both the income from the settlement of the escrow and the related tax expense was excluded from our adjusted EPS.
Excluding this 1.8 percentage point benefit our 3Q effective tax rate was slightly higher than our effective tax rate of 32.5% in 3Q 2014 and approximately consistent with the guidance we gave for the third quarter.
It was also consistent with the historical pattern of our third quarter effective tax rate being below the effective tax rate for the year.
Our current expectation for the effective tax rate for the full year is to be slightly less than 34%.
Operating cash flow was very strong in the quarter at $247 million.
With pending M&amp;A activity we reduced our level of stock repurchases in the quarter.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $38 million and year-to-date were $94 million.
For the full year we expect capital spending to be approximately $120 million to $125 million.
This is above the approximately $100 million we discussed at the beginning of 2015.
To support our continued acceleration and enterprise growth and new product innovation initiatives we've accelerated our investments in global analytics decisioning fraud and exchange platforms and supporting network and data center infrastructure as well as internal systems.
We are confident these investments will support both revenue growth and margin enhancement.
At this level of investment our capital spending continues to be at a modest 5% of revenue.
Earlier Rick gave you an update on our proposal to acquire the Veda Group.
This would be Equifax's largest acquisition in its history.
And given the size of the acquisition and the upfront costs associated with the transaction and its integration we will be excluding all acquisition-specific transaction and due diligence expense as well as integration expenses incurred in the first 12 months following the closure of the acquisition from our adjusted EPS.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Thanks John.
For the fourth quarter we expect organic revenue to be between $655 million and $665 million reflecting constant currency organic revenue growth of 7% to 9% that's partially offset by 2% of FX headwind.
This is consistent with our comments in July that the fourth quarter organic growth would be at the high-end of our long-term range which we've talked about being 6% to 8% growth.
Adjusted EPS is expected to be between $1.10 and $1.12 which is up 8% to 10% for the quarter.
Excluding $0.02 per share of negative impact from FX this reflects constant currency organic EPS growth of 10% to 12% for the quarter.
Our year-to-date performance results – our strong year-to-date performance resulted in an increase of our full-year guidance combined with our outlook for the fourth quarter of 2015 represents an outstanding year for our shareholders our customers employees and consumers.
And for the full-year we expect 2015 revenue to be somewhere between $2.652 billion and $2.662 billion consistent with our guidance in July and up nicely from our guidance of $2.55 billion and $2.6 billion at the beginning of the year and reflects constant currency organic revenue growth of a healthy 12% for 2015.
This strong revenue growth is partially offset by 3% negative impact from FX.
As before – and this is only organic revenue growth and we're talking more about next year we're getting back into the M&amp;A game.
As we expect the operating margins to be somewhere in the range of 27% to 27.5% for the full year which is up nice 80 basis points over 2014.
2015 adjusted EPS is now expected to be in the range of $4.46 to $4.48 per share up from the $4.38 to $4.42 per share we guided in July and up significantly from the $4.20 to $4.30 per share guidance we gave at the beginning of the year.
That growth reflects – that reflects a 15% growth in EPS for the year.
On a constant currency basis excluding $0.11 per share of negative impact from FX at current rates this reflects a very strong 17% to 18% growth for the year compared to 11% growth in 2014.
Now it's early but I thought I'd give you some color on how we're thinking about 2016.
And as we always do we'll come back and give you lot more clarity and depth on the February earnings call.
As we share today a look at 2016 we fully expect to be towards the upper end of our organic growth target range which is 6% to 8% with additional growth coming from successful completion of our current M&amp;A activities.
Our model that we've communicated to you or committed to you is to add over time one point two points of growth coming from inorganic growth.
If you exclude Veda because of the size of that our pipeline is strong.
We clearly see contributing to our organic growth rate of 6% to 8% and incremental one point or two points coming from M&amp;A Veda will be incremental that one point or two points.
We also expect operating margins in 2016 when you exclude the impact of acquisitions to expand nicely given the higher growth expectations we have and this is against the backdrop of an outstanding organic growth rate in 2015.
So what – and we're also expecting the challenge that the mortgage market to be relatively flat in 2016.
So in summary I think you'll agree 2015 is shaping up to be yet another outstanding year for the team.
And 2016 where we sit today we're expecting another outstanding year in 2016.
So operator with that we'd like to open up to any questions our audience may have.
Thank you.
And we'll go first to David Togut from Evercore ISI.
Thank you.
Good morning Rick John and Jeff.
Hi David.
Rick if I've heard you correctly you've made a pretty compelling case for higher growth than you've laid out in your mid-term target.
I mean for example NPI record pipeline getting a lot of traction with EGI Workforce Solutions performing above the plan great traction internationally porting products from U.S.
turned around the PSOL business.
And it looks like you're on the verge of what looks to be a very accretive acquisition of Veda at least by our calculations.
So am I hearing you correctly? And if so how do you think about sort of the mid to long-term organic growth prospects of the business based on the hand of cards that you're looking at now? Well thank you for what I think is a complement to the team.
I think you captured that effectively David.
The performance you're seeing in 2013 2014 2015 and kind of the early looks of 2016 is a result of the last 10 years of effort of laying a foundation of culture of talent and processes like EGI NPI and others and we're now the benefactors of that.
The performance continues to be very very broad-based across many verticals many countries many products.
And I feel very good very good as I sit here today looking out to 2016 that the growth for 2016 will also be good as I mentioned.
And we're assuming David in that 2016 early look GDP growths in the economies we participate in to be relatively in line with what we're seeing this year which is modest in the struggling economies in South America modest growth in GDP in UK Canada in U.S.
in the 2% 2.5% range.
So we're not expecting significant GDP or market-based improvement.
As you look at longer-term to the heart of your question 2017 2018 yeah I hope eventually we do see some rebounding some help from the economies we operate in which would be further wind at our back.
Got it.
And then perhaps just expand a little bit if you would on PSOL's growth prospects.
You've pivoted in the premium channel you picked up some nice growth there turned that business around.
What you see longer term in the premium channel for Equifax? How can you capitalize on this high-growth channel long term? Yeah I think Trey now Assad the interim leader and as you saw the announcements two weeks ago Dann Adams will take that business over.
I think they've done hell of a job especially when you compare it to the market as a whole it's changed at such a rapid pace.
I think we'll all agree the free market is here to stay.
But we're also of the view after a lot of work David with outside consultants there always be a place for the paid products that we offer.
And we've done a number of interviews through third-party consultants that talk to consumers.
And a big cross-section of that consumer base wants to and will buy the pay-for products.
Having said that free is here to stay.
It's carved out a nice piece.
We're winning as you know in the free channel right now through our USIS business with Trey in his old job.
I had a heavy hand working with Rudy on devising a strategy for the Credit Karmas and others in that arena.
So simply said I see the free business is here to stay.
I'm convinced the core business can grow in the mid-single digits with upper 20% margin.
I'm convinced our indirect business has got good growth prospects for the next couple years.
And lastly I'm convinced that our International presence will continue to grow stronger.
Understood.
Congratulations.
Thank you David.
And we'll go next to Manav Patnaik from Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Congratulations on the quarter.
And obviously it seems like a lot of your initiatives are working.
The first question I had Rick was – and I think I've asked this many times before is you've talked about your NPI and now I guess EGI doing a lot better than last year and probably above your expectations.
I guess can you give us some color how do you keep delivering these impressive results? And does that 10% NPI number you had before need to go up now to maintain this level of excellence? Well thank you Manav.
Truly we've got a great team.
They believe in the culture of growth.
They believe in the culture of helping our customers and consumers by building new solutions we couldn't build yesterday.
And we've got the great data assets.
We've invested in the Foundation things like (35:15) You've heard me talk about that.
Manav you too talked about people who see it everyone understands the importance of innovation.
Our industry is by itself not a high-growth industry.
And our team wants to be a part of a high-growth company and the way for us organically to get there is through innovation.
And NPI and EGI are such a vital part of who we are and how we think it's here to stay.
We'll continue to always take a step back and refresh our thinking re-energize ourselves modify the approach expand the approach.
We're now 10 years into NPI and probably three years into EGI and those initiatives have got to be refreshed periodically to make sure that they're contemporary and thoughtful and the team is engaged.
But as long as I'm going to be here Manav we're going to continue to strive for 10%-plus Vitality Index because it's healthy.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up on Veda.
Clearly sounds like a good deal.
It's a public company.
I guess what I was trying to get is in your diligence are there a couple of key things that you guys really need to get at or is this just making sure you're checking the boxes? Yes there are obviously.
And by no means would I ever go into a diligence process spending any amount of money let alone $1.7 billion $1.8 billion with a mindset that is check the box.
We take acquisitions extremely seriously thoughtfully.
And I would prefer not to disclose the exact list of diligence items that we have highlighted.
But trust me it will be thorough diligence.
We're in the data room now.
Teams will be in the country in a week.
And we have a very thoughtful exhaustive list of questions that the board and I along with the business unit leaders and COE leaders have thoroughly vetted.
So thorough diligence nowhere close to a perfunctory check the box.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Fair enough.
Good luck with that.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Andre Benjamin from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I first wanted to ask could you maybe provide a little more insight into how one we should be thinking about the magnitude of the contribution from the partnership with Fannie Mae as we do think about our 2016 models for next year? And two we've heard a lot of companies looking more at trended data generally.
And so maybe you could talk a bit about how you've seen demand for that product evolve and then we should think about it over the medium-term to contribute to growth.
Okay.
(38:05).
The Fannie Mae one I think it's a great one.
It's a great one for consumers it's a great one for the underwriters and it's going to be a great one for our business units of USIS and EWS.
As I mentioned I think in my comments earlier on we expect that to ramp up probably in late second quarter early third quarter.
Some work we've got to do some building we've got to fine-tune to bring that to market for Fannie Mae.
And it will be meaningful impact for the business units next year.
I am not going to give you exact number but trust it will be meaningful for us at BU level.
Two if you think of trended data in general terms I think maybe two years ago we started talking to you about trended data and there was an interest in getting a historical look versus a snapshot look.
And the first thing we did is built the capabilities for batch offline we call it internally CMS.
That ramped up nicely.
We then through a technology investment we made in USIS and Rick Smith brought that capability to go online and that's now I think up nicely.
I'm also very very intrigued with the concept on trended data bringing that – we're looking at right now there is a technology requirement as well we're bringing to EWS the concept of taking one of many different attributes we have in The Work Number database that attribute being income and showing an underwriter or marketeer whoever a historical look a trended look at their income intellectually excites myself and the team.
So as I think of trended data that will be a next evolution that we'll invest in as bringing trended data towards verification of income.
And one follow-up.
I wanted to make sure I heard something right in the prepared remarks.
I thought I heard you say that new product pipeline over the next three years will contribute 50% of 2014 level.
I want to make sure I heard that right.
And if so how should we actually interpret that in terms of the revenue and growth in 2017 versus 2014? Yeah I believe the comments I made – I can check my notes here.
Well the USIS NPI pipeline is running at a rate of 50% greater than the pipeline we had in 2014 so that revenue that we'll earn out in USIS over the next three years is up 50% over the pipeline from 2014.
Got it.
Thank you for clarifying.
Sure.
Thanks.
And we'll take our next question from Paul Ginocchio from Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking my question.
Rick the 700 clients you've signed for the ACA compliance platform I know the revenue hasn't started but can you – any way to help us size that for 2016 as you roll in? And then second your International margins I know you said they'll be up in 2016.
They look as high as 20% – almost 29% a few years ago.
Is there anything different with the International business today that would keep you from getting back to those numbers and how many years do you think it takes to get back there? Thanks.
Thank you Paul.
I think I've tried to give some color and text around ACA on past earnings calls.
One the caveat I'll give you is we've always said it will be very meaningful for EWS very meaningful and it exceeds my expectations.
So far beyond the expectations we had a year ago John mentioned I mentioned over 700 plus accounts strong interest level already brewing for 2016.
If you follow the ACA dynamics to – in the level of fines and how those increased over the years and the appeal process that's going to have a tail that's for many years as we sit here today and look out.
Secondly and I alluded to it is getting into this ACA it can open up other doors and avenues of opportunity we didn't thought about yet and then the IRS appeals process so on and so forth.
So I'm not going to give you a number Paul but it is meaningful.
And very very – very important to us long-term and again I think that I mentioned in my comments probably the most impactful largest meaningful NPI we had in my 10 years here.
As far as margins on International yes I clearly see 2015 is being the trough if you will on margins that was intentional.
We are integrating a big acquisition for that BU investing heavily in the UK business unit the UK government opportunity we talked about.
We're also as John alluded to in our comments investing heavily in technology in analytics and platforms around the International operations to fuel growth short- medium- and long-term.
So we clearly expect 2015 to be the trough and margins to start to ramp up nicely in 2016 and beyond.
Will they get back to 29%? There's one caveat for that.
I think they can over time.
I can't tell you what period of time is the team is working diligently now to regionalize big pockets of costs within International and that requires technology investments to take things from countries to regions and so on and so forth.
That will be a big benefactor.
If we are fortunate enough to close the acquisition of Veda we clearly expect that on EBITDA margin basis that also be a nice lift to the EBITDA margins of International.
Excluding Veda right as Jeff – I think Jeff was taking you through model for International long-term.
In mid-term what we said is mid-20%s is where we are expecting the margins to end up.
Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And we'll go next to Andrew Steinerman from JPMorgan.
Hi.
Rick I wanted to ask you about peer-to-peer lenders this was a subject that came up recently when I hosted a industry research conference call with the outsell.
And I just wanted to know when you look at these peer-to-peer lenders I know they are using Equifax products today but I wanted to look further out do you think these peer-to-peer lending systems will lead to an increase of demand of Equifax products or decrease when it comes to peer-to-peer lenders? Yeah.
Thank you Andrew.
That's a good question.
We spend a lot of time thinking about that strategically.
And many do refer to that ecosystem as evolving as you have is peer-to-peer.
I'd like to think of as more kind of remote lending unsecured remote lending rather than peer-to-peer because it tend to be a bank involved in many cases if you're looking at Lending Club or GreenSky or Biz2Credit or others.
Point one I think that that is a marketplace that will exist.
I think it – disrupt the marketplace for the traditional banking sector the banks now choose to participate themselves.
But I think it's here to stay.
I think it's got good momentum good legs.
As you mentioned before they are a user of our data today.
They use both the verification of employment and income database many times as well as the core credit file and credit scores.
We expect that to continue going forward.
So right now I view that as being yet another – if that sector can allow maybe other people to get access to credit who couldn't get credit in normal system it's incremental to us.
If it's just displacement the bank would underwrite today I see it as a non-event for us.
The bigger question we're thinking about strategically is how else can we play in that ecosystem.
That is truly in five years 10 years is a big robust part of the market how do we participate in that market? And that's something we're kicking around right now.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Gary Bisbee with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
On the Workforce Solution business I guess I wondered if you could give us some color on how much of a drag on margins the ACA compliance offering revenues being deferred but yet you footing the bill for sales and onboarding customers et cetera.
Is this a big drag and would you expect that investment sort of flattens out at the same time revenue comes and that really helps margins starting Jan 1? Yeah you don't really see like (46:40) said one it is important to put that in context with the profile and the path that Workforce Solutions has been on.
It has been remarkable in terms of all dimensions in my opinion especially margin.
I think John mentioned the margins are up 350 basis points in the quarter.
In spite of what you're talking about kind of investing in ACA standing up with revenue being a subscription model which is earned out over a period of time.
Secondly and more importantly is John alluded to in his prepared comments that this business is on a path to 40%-plus margins.
And so I think if we put it in context from where it's come from where it's going the incremental impact drag or otherwise of ACA is enough that (47:30).
John do you want to add to that? That was – it's very small right because as you know you defer expense with revenue right? So it's just very small negative impact on margin.
But again should be accretive to both revenue and margins in 2016.
Okay.
Great.
And then just to help us frame your commentary on 2016 I know you have not – have declined to break out the total revenue impact from – or your estimate from the mortgage market activity.
But is it safe to say that in 2015 year-to-date the core – as you used to call it the core revenue ex-mortgage market changes would be growing in excess to the high-end of the 8% organic growth.
And I guess if that's right are there any headwinds we should think about as to why that might flow somewhat next year outside of mortgage? Or should we just think that the initial commentary is early and possibly somewhat conservative? Thanks.
Let me correct that and John will jump in.
As you think about 2015 I won't to 2016.
There's a lot of numbers out there on the NPI Index growing I think Jeff roughly 17% in 2015.
And as it has been in the past for us you should expect and we are delivering performance that is greater than the index.
John Gamble mentioned that the expectations as we sit here today in mid-October looking at 2016 is that market will be relatively flat and that might mean 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points down a couple of points up in that flattish range for 2016.
So as we gave an early look at revenue of 6% to 8% organically next year it is with the expectation of the mortgage being in that range and once again our team that being EWS and USIS performing at levels greater than that by market penetration and new product introduction in the mortgage market.
So that's how we think about 2016.
John do you want to add to that? No.
As Rick indicated right we just guided fourth quarter as well as next year at the very high-end of our long-term growth rate so up towards the 8%.
And in both of those cases we've indicated we expect mortgage to be flat or down with the market.
So I think that should cover most of the question right there.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we'll take our next question from Shlomo Rosenbaum from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Hey Rick I just wanted to know if you wanted to comment a little bit more on Veda.
That company is doing very well.
It actually looks more like a mini Equifax.
And you touched on it a little bit in your comments.
I wanted to know if you could maybe expand a little bit on this.
What is it that you bring to them and what is it that they bring to you beyond the geographic diversification? Great.
Thank you Shlomo.
One note is Shlomo we've known each other now for a number of years and you know our philosophy on acquisitions so this won't surprise maybe the rest of you or you.
We have been talking with Veda now boy it dates back maybe four years.
So it's not like this thing just dropped out of the sky one day and we said this is going to be an interesting acquisition.
It's been an organization that we're trying to get to know each other for a quite some time.
Two philosophically it's important to know that when we think of acquisitions in Equifax we are driven by a view of what we can bring to that company that makes that company even better rather than what does that company bring to us that makes Equifax better.
I think studies will show and there's been many studies with many consultants when you take the path of how they help you as a core business you oftentimes fail.
So having said that other than the geographical footprint I think what we can bring there is some of the processes and capabilities that have made Equifax successful the last 10 years in the countries we operate now things like our Lean process things like Lean at the customer things like NPI things like EGI Enterprise Growth Initiatives our Cambrian technology platform which is fabulous.
And as you know and we have been investing in that for a number of years bringing that platform to the countries in which Veda operates to link together unstructured internet data if you will third-party customer data and our data and build more products than we could build in the past I think that's a great capability.
So it's really deploying some of the things you know so well Shlomo that we can play here into their footprint.
I do think that over time and one of the things we'll have to determine it is clearly not baked into any pro forma assumptions that we have now but over time if we have a really good business in that part of the world and we've got really good people which they do our ability to think about expanding into other geographies now that the two businesses are much bigger business throwing off a lot more EBITDA make some investments organically and inorganically.
I think when you're closer to those geographies I'm willing to make those bets.
Sitting here in Atlanta Georgia trying to think about making investments in mid-size countries around Southeast Asia as the hub is a risk I'm not willing to take.
But if we've got a good footprint in Australia New Zealand and a few other countries that's a risk we're willing to take as a company and that would evolve over the next few years.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you for that color.
And could you also talk about how much either qualitatively quantitatively how much of the growth in OCIS was due to the fact that you have significant reseller revenue that is helpful to you this year with some of your initiatives over there? Yeah I tried to allude to that in my comments that I had talked about NPI being very diverse with the core credit business there.
I've talked about auto being strong financial services being strong resellers being strong mortgage being strong.
So that's power forward with 12% growth.
And USIS is delivering good strong broad-based growth.
There's no doubt and we've been very open about this the mortgage market has helped USIS and they've helped themselves by the way by outperforming in mortgage as has the indirect reseller channel for DTC.
But their performance there's no other way to categorize it other than being broad-based.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Then lastly hey John this one is for you.
How should I think of the tax rate as I model out the next several years? As you go more international should I expect the general trend downward? And if so how should I think about it? Yeah in general we would expect that tax – we've seen a nice trend in the tax rate the last few years down.
And we would expect to see the tax rate to probably continue to move positively in the future in terms of positive to us maybe not at the pace that you've seen over the past several years.
But our expectation is you should see some continued improvement over time.
We'll talk specifically about 2016 as Rick said in February.
Shlomo John and Lee before him have kind of helped build a foundation around tax and additional deeper looks at tax over the last X number of years.
And that's starting to pay some dividends paid dividends last year again this year.
One last thought I'd say maybe to add to John's comment is go back to if we're fortunate enough to get Veda the Australian corporate tax rate is a lower tax rate than the U.S.
tax rate and many other countries we operate in.
It's about 30% 30% tax rate so that would benefit lowering the tax rate as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you so much.
Sure.
And we'll take our next question from Bill Warmington with Wells Fargo.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Bill.
So one follow-up question for you on Veda.
You mentioned you've been talking with Veda for four years.
So my question is why now? Why Australia? Why now? I think it's a great question.
I think as we've got to know the company more in-depth over the past few years we're little more comfortable.
Two I think it's an opportunistic time as well and Bill there has been some articles written maybe you probably read them.
By the way I think Manav had a very good write up that's worth reading as well.
The Australian stock market has obviously taken a beating.
Foreign exchange has gone from roughly $1.1 $1-point-something to A$1 to $0.68 to $0.72 $0.73 to A$1.
There is the legislation that is passed into law (57:02) from just using negative data to positive data and I think you understand there's been studies all over the world by the IMS and others that talk about how that catalyzes risk-based pricing risk-based pricing catalyzes growth of lending that maybe a multi-year look that's going to happen eventually.
So maybe last point is we bought TDX roughly two years ago and we delevered from TDX we've integrated TDX successfully to the balance sheet our human capital preparedness is in a position to capitalize on a big acquisition.
So all of those things kind of came together at the right time.
Perfect.
And then a follow-up for John on Employer Services.
Just trying to understand the timeline of the contract in terms of the ACA compliance analytics work how many months you're looking at typically for implementation during which you're deferring and then typically the length of the contract over which you're going to recognize the revenue? Yes.
So the implementation can happen over one quarter to two quarters generally speaking.
And then you're looking at contracts that are often times a year but can be longer than a year right? So generally probably rarely shorter than a year and rarely probably longer than three years but predominantly closer to a year.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Bill.
With that I think we will conclude the call.
Appreciate everybody's time and support.
Have a good day.
Thanks.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Jeff Dodge.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Welcome to today’s conference call.
I’m Jeff Dodge Investor Relations.
And with me today are Rick Smith our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and John Gamble Chief Financial Officer.
Today’s call is being recorded.
An archive of the recording will be available later today in the Investor Relations section of the About Equifax tab of our website at www.equifax.com.
In the fourth quarter of 2015 we realigned the reporting structure of our direct-to-consumer reseller business so that it now reports into our Personal Solutions business.
Previously direct-to-consumer resellers were reported within the USIS and International segments based on the country of the customer.
We have provided the quarterly history for Personal Solutions USIS and International in the new format for each quarter in 2014 and 2015 in the Q&amp;A section of our earnings release.
All discussion of the 2015 business unit performance and their outlook for 2016 will be consistent with the new structure.
Earlier this week the Veda shareholders voted to accept Equifax’s acquisition offer and we also received subsequent approval from court.
Therefore the 2016 guidance provided today as well as the updated long-term business model for Equifax which is included in the Q&amp;A section of our earnings release both include the impact of the Veda acquisition.
However our for the first quarter of 2016 will not include any impact from Veda including the incremental cost of the debt given the short amount of time Veda will be part of Equifax in the quarter.
During this call as in previous earnings releases we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax and adjusted operating margin which will be adjusted for certain items which affect comparability of the underlying operational performance.
In 2016 we will be emphasizing adjusted EBITDA margin in discussing our operational performance.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as operating income adding back depreciation amortization and the impact of certain one-time items including the acquisition and integration expenses from Veda which are also reflected in our calculation of adjusted EPS.
These non-GAAP measures are detailed in reconciliation tables posted on our website.
During this call we will be making certain forward-looking statements to help you understand Equifax and its business environment.
These statements involve a number of risks uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
Certain risk factors inherent in our business are set forth in the filings with the SEC including our 2014 Form 10-K and the subsequent filings.
Please refer to our various investor presentations which are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website for further details.
Now I’d like to turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone.
Thanks as always for joining us this morning.
Execution across all four of our business units continues to be very strong and enabled us to deliver yet another strong quarter in the fourth quarter as well as full year.
For the quarter fourth quarter 2015 total revenue was $666 million up 7% on reported basis and up 10% on a local currency basis from 2014.
For the quarter FX created $18 million of year-over-year headwind for us.
The adjusted operating margin was 27.1% up from 26.5% in the fourth quarter 2014.
Adjusted EPS was $1.14 up 12% from $1.02 in 2014.
And just to refresh your memory that exceeded the upper end of our guidance range we provided on the last call which is $1.10 to $1.12.
Finally given our strong performance in 2015 our Board of Directors approved a 14% increase in our quarterly dividend up to now $0.33 a quarter.
And this is as you probably all know the sixth consecutive double-digit increase in our dividend rate reflecting the strong performance of the Company.
I think you’ll agree on many dimensions 2015 was an outstanding year for our 117-year old business.
And we exceeded our expectations; we have broad-based contributions from each business unit; investor verticals and across the vast majority of our geographies our tem delivered.
We’re well-positioned for strong 2016.
We’ll talk about the economic environment in the Q&amp;A.
And I’m proud of the team for their continued commitment to innovation execution outstanding customer service.
For the full year total revenue was $2.7 billion up 9% on a reported basis and up 12% on a local currency basis from 2014 and for the year FX created a $76 million year-over-year headwind.
Adjusted operating margin was 27.4% up 90 basis points from 26.5% in 2014 well above the targeted 25 basis points or so increase we guided to in the past.
Adjusted EPS was $4.50 up 16% from $3.89 a year ago and just as a reminder that performance in 2015 was all organically driven as we had no acquisitions in the year.
As I always do I’ll transition to the business units for some brief commentary before John gives you the details.
I’ll go through some highlights for the business as well and then we’ll get into more specifics.
So I want to talk first of all Jeff mentioned in his opening comments we repositioned PSOL in 2015.
You know that this team has been working diligently on our new growth model which I fully support and it’s yielding benefits.
And John will go through some of those numbers.
At the same time I made the decision -- it was important that we have one tem one leader one business that would manage our strategy our product position in the geographies for our consumer business regardless of that business going direct to the consumer or is going through a reseller.
So we made the decision to realign that under Dann Adams who leads our direct-to-consumer businesses globally.
I think that this gives us more continuity going forward.
Now on to the businesses themselves: USIS delivered an impressive 8% revenue growth for the year while expanding its operating margins 290 basis points.
Our insights driven strategy which we talked about has resonated extremely well for largest clients in our Key Client Program.
Our KCP customers are purchasing multiple Decision 360 products and services in aggregate access almost five Equifax data products which is remarkable.
Across our top 100 clients Decisions 360 products and services are increasing as well and there they are accessing about three products on average.
So D360 is really making a difference in the marketplace for us.
And USIS our fraud and identity management solutions business again delivered healthy 22% growth for the year largely driven by their ID authentication and management solution products.
Our enterprise vertical strategy has made significant contributions to our total Company revenue growth.
With experienced industry executives in these verticals we are better able to leverage our diverse data assets analytic expertise and IT platforms to deliver premier decision solutions.
USIS leads many of our enterprise vertical initiatives.
To give you an example of few of those; in 2015 our mortgage vertical grew 25% and USIS at 29% for the total Company.
This again compares favorably to the average Mortgage Bankers Application Index which was up 17% for the year.
So a trend of outperforming the mortgage market has continued now for many many years.
Next example is in the auto vertical which USIS revenue grew 6% and total Company grew 9%.
This also compares very favorably to the overall market where vehicle sales were up approximately 5%.
And more recently our retail banking vertical grew USIS revenue 17% and total Company revenue by 18%.
So you get a sense that with this enterprise focus taking all of the great assets getting seasoned leaders in these verticals delivering those unique assets to our customers is enabling us to grow significantly in many cases faster than market itself.
For years now we’ve been working with Fannie Mae on ways to better leverage our information to further improve the underlying process for mortgage loans.
Late in 2015 Fannie Mae made the decision to incorporate credit data into the underwriting process for mortgage lending.
We talked about this with you in the past.
This initiative will be an important contributor to revenue in both 2016 and 2017.
But it also represents a significant structural change in the loan underwriting as this sets the stage for applications outside the mortgage lending to increasingly use trended data and our world-class and local talent and leverage our Cambrian platform which we talked about before.
We are well-positioned to take advantage of those opportunities as they arrive.
Live testing is expected to begin in the second quarter of 2016 and go live mid-year.
More importantly trended data will be available to our core credit online delivery system making the information available for all solutions that access our credit database.
Opportunities for USIS in 2016 and beyond are significant.
Trended data ID and fraud further penetration with targeted vertical markets are all expected to make important contributions to sustained revenue growth.
A multiyear model for USIS remains as we’ve communicated to you before with top-line growth in the 5% to 7% range and adjusted EBITDA margin which will now talk about going forward is expected to be in a high 40s expanding to low fifties over time.
International delivered 12% local currency revenue growth with strong performance coming from our operations in Europe and Latin America.
Revenue in International’s three largest verticals FIs telcos and small and medium sized enterprises grew 13% in 2015.
Our decision platforms analytics solutions and debt management revenue grew 12% in 2015.
Europe had an outstanding year driven largely by broad-based growth in our UK operations.
By industry FIs; telco; SMEs all grew high to low double-digits for the year.
And our decision solutions analytical services and debt management all grew at double-digit rates in 2015.
TDX has been working as you know with UK government to manage their past due consumer debt in -- fourth quarter 2015 and started receiving accounts at that time and started placing those accounts with the collection agencies analyzing the data in the fourth quarter of last year.
And while still early the performance to-date is slightly ahead of our expectations this opportunity along with our ongoing sales efforts is expected to be a significant strategic initiative driving growth for International for years to come.
Internal has historically delivered some of our strongest performance in new product innovation which has been a significant contributor to incremental revenue growth for the market penetration and obviously customer loyalty because we’re building new products and solutions that we couldn’t build in past.
This broad-based effort towards innovation continues to fuel growth for International.
For the year six geographies in International represented almost two-thirds of the revenue delivered in NPI Vitality Index of 10% or greater which is fabulous.
International has some exciting opportunities ahead of us in addition to Veda which I’ll come back to talk about later which will become a part of the International operation.
In 2016 we’ll broadly expand Cambrian deploying it across the international geographies substantially enhancing our ability to deliver analytical insights and drive growth.
The continued excellent performance with new products and cost benefits and the regionalization efforts begun last year as well as the addition to Veda will expand EBITDA margins in 2016 and beyond.
We have moderately raised our expectations for multiyear growth in international now to a range of 7% -- or 8% to 10% with adjusted EBITDA margins in the low-30s going to mid-30s over time.
Both those measures of top-line and EBITDA margins reflect the anticipated close of Veda.
On the Workforce Solutions they grew 18%; last year was an outstanding performance as was their 510 basis-point margin expansion for the year.
Core product growth along with a number of new product initiatives all contributed to this outstanding performance.
Verification Services’ strong and broad-based growth of 25% in the year continues to be driven by adding records of The Work Number database.
As our coverage of individual employment records increases the value of our services enables us to fully penetrate our key target verticals including mortgage auto consumer finance government and pre-employment.
And all those verticals every one of them was up a very strong double-digit for the year just amazingly strong balance growth.
At year-end The Work Number database reached almost 280 million records.
And as we stated before we’re well on our way to achieving 300 million records in total.
The recent emergence of what they call the instant mortgage facilitated through online application process is generating new growth opportunities for automated income and employment verification.
We recently signed one of the largest players in the space because of our unique ability to deliver both the credit information as well as the employment and income verification simultaneously speeding up the process and enhancing the consumer experience.
Within EWS the Employer Services business also had another very strong year in 2015 growing 8%.
Much of this growth was driven by our workforce analytics offering which we’ve talked to you about before.
This allows employers to ensure that they’re complaint with the Affordable Care Act as well as providing ACA required tax information to employees.
Workforce analytics doubled the business in 2015 and is expected to more than double again in 2016.
Our workforce analytics client-base now is approaching over 800 clients and the pipeline remains very strong.
To-date our solution’s largely been focused on our larger enterprise customers; in 2016 we are starting to go down market enabling us to capture relationships with smaller employees which we can offer cross-sell opportunities with our other employee services offerings.
Healthcare related revenue generated by both our income verification and the Affordable Care Act compliant solutions more than doubled in 2015 versus 2014.
Our Workforce Solutions has delivered a stellar performance not just in 2015 but over the last nine years.
As a business they were quick to adopt our approach to innovate and to embrace LEAN.
As a result they’ve outperformed on revenue growth and substantial improved their margin.
Looking forward expanding and further penetrating the key markets and verticals increasing the number of records and number of database and globalizing the footprint will continue to drive revenue growth and margin expansion.
Our multiyear expectation for Workforce Solutions has been increased now expecting revenue growth of 9% to 11% with adjusted EBITDA margin in the high-40% range expanding to low-50s over time.
Personal Solutions finalized its strategic transformation and is executing well against its four-pronged strategy for the year and newly constructed global person solutions with over 19% local currency growth -- revenue growth and is well-positioned for 2016 and beyond.
Revenue growth from our direct and indirect consumer activities continues to meet our expectations.
Revenue growth in our Personal Solutions business in Canada and UK was up a nice 7% in 2015.
In the U.S.
we continue to perform consistent with our expectations with increasing ARPU and lowering subscriber churn.
Our direct-to-consumer resellers were the most significant contributor to Personal Solutions in 2015.
We talked about that when it was a part of USIS.
Our reseller revenues in both Canada and UK grew solid as well solid double-digit in fact in 2015.
And the reseller revenue in the U.S.
was very strong primarily driven by the two-year contract with a leading company in the space Credit Karma and we’ve talked to you about that; also well-positioned for continued growth in 2016.
You may have seen the addition of a new reseller LifeLock we signed a multiyear contract a few months back.
With our broad-based portfolio of data assets we believe there will be additional opportunities in 2016 and beyond to provide a broader array of credit income and fraud services to consumers who are direct in reseller channel.
Under the new organizational structure our multiyear expectations for revenue growth in PSOL is now 5% to 8% up from the previous target of 4% to 6%.
Adjusted EBITDA margin is expected to be in the low 30s expanding to the mid 30s over time.
The outsized growth in 2015 was primarily driven by the startup of our relationship Credit Karma the largest of our DTC direct-to-consumer resellers.
In 2016 we’ll anniversary this revenue.
So long-term growth rates for PSOL revert back to more normal levels again of 5% to 8% with strong growth going forward.
Now on to some corporate highlights before I turn the mic over to John to give you more details on the financials.
Today -- we are truly a globally company with a global set of processes deployed around the world a global structure a global culture and a group that’s all focused on a core set of global strategic imperatives.
Over the years we’ve globalized our most critical and fundamental management disciplines to facilitate greater linkage between our strategy and our execution; and through this effort we have streamlined our product innovation and placement.
We’ve been able to grow the leverage of our IT platforms; we’ve optimized the investment in our talent and we more effectively moved our talent and products where the greatest opportunities exist.
This globalization also enables us to better and more quickly leverage the skills and expertise developed in one market i.e.
in USIS into another market international; again that’s both processes products and people.
Everybody in the Company is measured and evaluated in what they contribute to our imperatives regardless of what part of the organization they reside.
Having reinvigorated our NPI new product innovation where we talked to you about last year of our 2.0 kind of next phase of innovation.
We’ve launched 64 new products last year.
Along with the pipeline of 2016 launches we expect the revenue contributions to deliver strong NPI growth in 2016 and beyond.
Our largest and most diverse growth opportunities are executed under our enterprise growth initiatives we call it EGI.
In 2015 year-over-year revenue growth from these large initiatives was over 20% -- 20% growth over 2014.
In 2015 we exceeded our expectations for NPI revenues by 6%.
Furthermore as discussed with you in the past the class of products we launched in 2015 under our revitalized effort of 2.0 are expected to delivery record level of revenue -- year three revenue when compared to prior year launch.
It is the healthiest class of products that we’ve launched since NPI has been in existence here.
One of the more exciting new product opportunities revolves around trended data.
The effort and investment we are making to fulfill our commitment to Fannie Mae will be leveraged across all of our unique data assets.
We firmly believe that the next horizon for information-based solution is trended data which will underpin more powerful decision solutions for our customers and significantly improve our competitive position.
So to be clear our focus is trending as many of our unique data assets which are truly unique only to Equifax or customers provide these values so things like The Work Number NC+ and others.
Finally as with many of our corporate management documents our global NPI process will be implemented in Veda once we complete the acquisition.
And I’ll get to Veda in a moment.
In 2015 we launched our big data platform called Cambrian.
Cambrian will enable fashion development and delivery of analytic insights like including improving the speed at which we develop new products.
It will also greatly enhance our Decision 360 capabilities and provide significant competitive advantage using advanced analytic techniques.
Other corporate imperative for us has been around LEAN.
LEAN continues to make incremental contributions to our expense leverage and exceeded our goal contributing over 30% greater benefit in 2015 than we had budgeted.
And we leveraged our expertise in LEAN principles to deepen our relationships with some of our largest customers with projects that helped streamline many of their operational activities.
And that obviously provides a competitive differentiated solution to the marketplace.
Let me close before I give it to John and talk a little bit about Veda.
I am sure many of you are aware that the regulatory approval Veda received in December enabling to schedule the shareholder meeting which Jeff alluded to a little bit ago.
They had the shareholder meeting on February 8th and gained approval there and they’ve also received the final court approval this week.
And at this point it is our expectation to close the acquisition towards the end of February of this year.
We’re very excited about this opportunity.
It represents for us the great strategies strong financial performance outstanding management team great market position and it also gives us a significant opportunity in Asia-Pacific geography to further broaden and enhancing our geographic footprint which is important to us as we diversify our revenue stream.
As we move into our first quarter earnings call and beyond obviously we’ll keep you apprised of the strategic and the financial progress that the team is making with this new asset.
In closing our performance in 2015 exemplifies the culture and strength of our management team and our dedication the entire organization to innovate and execute for our customers.
It’s a culture and the process that has taken years to develop.
And it underpins the confidence we have in our ability to continue to delivering on our commitments and to make our customers and shareholders satisfy with their performance.
Our strategic imperatives as we enter 2016 are in a few areas that that are very important to us; we cascade these around the world one obviously is deliver strong and consistent profitable growth and shareholder returns; two to develop unparalleled analytical insights leveraging the unique data assets that Equifax has; three is innovate from market leadership in the key domains and verticals in which we operate; four is to serve as a trusted steward and advocate for customers and consumers around the world; and obviously in closing the last to invest in talent to drive that strategy and foster the culture of innovation.
So with that John as you always do pleased take us through the financials.
Thanks Rick and good morning.
As before I will generally be referring to the financial results from continuing operations represented on a GAAP basis.
Now let me turn to the business units’ financial performance for the fourth quarter.
As Jeff mentioned at the opening all BU information is based on the new segments with direct-to-consumer resellers moved to PSOL from USIS and International.
Going forward given the substantial amortization expense related to the Veda acquisition we will increase our discussion of EBITDA for Equifax and the operating segments.
U.S.
Information Solutions revenue in 4Q ‘15 was $296 million up 7% when compared to the fourth quarter of ‘14.
For the full year revenue of $1.2 billion was up 8%.
This compares favorably to our long-term expectation for USIS of 5% to 7% growth as both mortgage and automotive were very strong in 2015.
Online Information Solutions revenue was $204 million in 4Q ‘15 up 6% year-to-year and $842 million for the full year up 8% when compared to the prior year.
Mortgage Solutions revenue was $28 million in 4Q ‘15 up 10% year-to-year and $124 million for calendar year ‘15 up 17%.
Total mortgage related revenue was up 16% and 17% in the quarter for USIS and Equifax respectively.
For calendar year ‘15 mortgage-related revenue was up 25% and 29% for USIS and Equifax respectively.
This compares favorably to the average Mortgage Bankers Application Index which was up 14% in the fourth quarter and 17% for the calendar year.
Financial Marketing Services revenue was $64 million in 4Q ‘15 up 7% year-to-year and up $205 million for calendar year ‘15 up 5% year-to-year.
The operating margin for U.S.
Information Solutions was 41.6% in 4Q ‘15 and 41.9% for calendar year ‘15 up 50 basis points and 290 basis points respectively.
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 48.5% in 4Q ‘15 and 49.7% in calendar year ‘15.
We expect to see continued expansion in USIS EBITDA margins in 2016.
International’s revenue was $143 million in 4Q ‘15 down 1% on a reported basis but up 11% on a local currency basis.
Revenue was $569 million for calendar year ‘15 down 1% on reported basis but up 12% on a local currency basis.
By region Europe’s revenue was $64 million in 4Q ‘15 up 3% in U.S.
dollars and up 10% in local currency.
For calendar year ‘15 Europe revenue was $247 million up 2% in U.S.
dollars and up 12% in local currency.
Latin America’s revenue was $49 million in 4Q ‘15 up 2% in U.S.
dollars and 18% in local currency.
Revenue was $200 million for calendar year ‘15 up 4% in U.S.
dollars and 17% in local currency.
Latin America showed outstanding local currency growth throughout ‘15 led by strong growth across Argentina Uruguay and Paraguay.
Canada revenue was $29 million down 11% in U.S.
dollars but up 5% in local currency.
Revenue for calendar year ‘15 was $122 million in U.S.
dollars down 11% in U.S.
dollars but up 3% in local currency.
Canada’s performance strengthened very nicely in the second half and has momentum going into 2016.
International’s operating margin was 20.7% in 4Q ‘15 and 20% in calendar year ‘15.
EBITDA margins were 27.2% in 4Q ‘15 and 27% in calendar year ‘15.
Both operating and EBITDA margins were down year-to-year in International.
However both showed sequential improvement in the fourth quarter relative to third.
In 2016 we expect to see continued margin improvement driven by continued strong local currency growth and the benefits of regionalization as well as from the addition of Veda.
We’ll see some margin pressure related to weakened foreign currencies particularly with the Canadian dollar and the devaluation of the Argentine peso.
Workforce Solutions revenue was $144 million in the quarter up 12% year-to-year and $578 million in calendar year ‘15 up 18% year-to-year.
This reflects continued very strong growth in verification services up 14% in fourth quarter and 25% year-to-year.
Employer Services also delivered a very strong performance up 8% in the fourth quarter and 8% in the calendar year.
This was driven by success in their Compliance Center and offerings and their solution for employer’s compliance with the requirements of the ACA.
The Workforce Solutions’ operating margin was 36.8% in 4Q ‘15 and 37.9% in calendar ‘15 up 430 and 510 basis points respectively.
Workforce Solutions EBITDA margins were 44.3% in the fourth quarter and 45.1% in the calendar year.
We expect continued strong expansion in Workforce Solutions’ EBITDA margins in 2016.
Global Personal Solutions revenue was $84 million in 4Q ‘15 up 12% on a reported basis and up 14% on local currency basis.
Revenue in Calendar year ‘15 was $346 million up 18% on reported basis and up 19% on a local currency basis.
PSOL’s business has two main areas credit and identity monitoring services sold through direct and indirect channels that protect and monitor consumer’s ID and enable consumers to gain better access to credit and credit another data sales sold through our DTC reseller partners.
Credit and identity monitoring services sold through the indirect channel represent those circumstances where Equifax provides white label online credit and identity service through partners.
In 2015 ongoing revenue from credit and identity monitoring services grew at the high end of the 4% to 6% guidance range we have previously provided for the PSOL segment prior to the addition of DTC resellers.
DTC resellers’ revenue represents sales of credit and other data to resellers.
In these cases Equifax provides data and analytics but not the web properties with which the customer directly interacts.
Examples of this business are our relationships with Credit Karma and LifeLock.
DTC reseller revenue showed substantial growth in 2015 driven primarily by our relationship with Credit Karma which began in 4Q ‘14.
Our DTC reseller revenue should continue to grow faster than our direct-to-consumer sales but as Rick mentioned not at the very high rate we saw in 2015.
Looking forward as previously mentioned we expect this overall segment to grow 5% to 8%.
Operating margin was 27% in 4Q ‘15 and 27.5% for calendar year ‘15 consistent with our expectations.
EBITDA margins were 29.7% in 4Q ‘15 and 30.2% in calendar year ‘15.
PSOL revenue and operating margin in 4Q ‘14 were very strong reflecting a large rich deal won in 4Q ‘14.
4Q ‘15 operating margin of 27% was consistent with our expectations and our guidance and reflects the impact of our decision to invest more in marketing in 2015 as well as the addition of DTC reseller business to PSOL.
In the fourth quarter general corporate expense was $51 million excluding $3.7 million of onetime expenses associated with the Veda acquisition.
General corporate expense was up slightly from 3Q consistent with our guidance.
For the first quarter of 2016 we expect general corporate expense excluding Veda related acquisition and integration expenses to be in the range of $55 million to $60 million and run at a slightly lower rate throughout the remaining quarters of the year.
The adjusted operating margin at 27.1% in 4Q ‘15 and 27.4% in calendar year ‘15 were up 60 and 90 basis points year-to-year respectively.
Adjusted EBITDA margins were 34.4% in 4Q ‘15 and 34.8% in calendar year ‘15.
We expect to see improvements in our adjusted EBITDA margin in 2016 expanding by about 75 basis points.
Our GAAP effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 32.6% equal to our expectation and in our guidance.
For the full year our non-GAAP effective tax rate after adjusting for non-GAAP items the Missouri State tax law change in the second quarter and the TDX escrow adjustment in the third quarter was 33.7% consistent with our comments during our third quarter release.
Looking forward into 2016 our expectation is for a GAAP effective tax rate of about 33%.
Operating cash flow was $205 million in 4Q ‘15 and $742 million in calendar year ‘15 both were very strong reflecting strong earnings and working capital performance.
Free cash flow equal to operating cash flow less capital expenditures was very strong in 2015 at $596 million up 12% from 2014.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $53 million and for calendar year ‘15 were $146 million.
Consistent with our comments throughout the year the increase in capital spending versus 2014 reflects the acceleration of our investment in new product innovation deployment of global platforms including Cambrian and other analytics InterConnect fraud and our new PSOL infrastructure.
As we look forward to 2016 we expect capital spending including Veda to be in the range of 5% to 6% of revenue.
This is consistent with 2015 and reflects a continuation of our current investments as well as some additional spending in the near-term as we integrate Veda.
This is slightly higher than our expected long-term rate of capital spending of about 5% of revenue due to the Veda integration.
As Rick indicted we have received Veda shareholder approval and approval from the Australian court to complete the purchase of data.
We expect the acquisition to close on about February 25th.
Total purchase price including assumed debt and fees is approximately U.S.
$1.9 billion.
At the close of the Veda transaction we will have debt outstanding of just under $3.1 billion and debt-to-EBITDA on the trailing basis of just under three times.
As indicated previously we expect to maintain our current credit ratings.
In 2016 we will focus on using our very strong cash flow for debt reduction and returning our leverage to a level consistent with our current credit ratings.
Therefore we do not intend to repurchase shares in 2016.
We will however continue with acquisitions beyond Veda in 2016 with the goal of delivering on our long-term model of an additional one to two points of revenue growth.
Assuming acquisitions consistent with our targets in 2016 and 2017 we would expect to repurchase shares in 2017.
As we discussed last quarter we will exclude Veda transaction and other acquisition expenses and integration expenses incurred in the first year after the Veda acquisition through 1Q ‘17 in calculating adjusted EPS and adjusted operating margin and EBITDA margin.
We will provide information regarding transaction and acquisition expenses incurred with the acquisition as well as integration expenses we expect to incur related to the Veda acquisition after the transaction closes at our 1Q ‘16 earnings release conference call.
Also Jeff mentioned at the beginning of the call given the relatively short time we will own Veda in the quarter our 1Q ‘16 guidance does not include the impact of Veda nor the incremental debt costs including interest expense related to the acquisition.
We will provide you details on the impact of Veda on 1Q ‘16 during our 1Q ‘16 earnings call in April.
The 2016 full year guidance Rick will provide includes Veda.
For 2016 we have assumed Veda will be a part of Equifax for 10 months.
Veda revenue for the 10 months is assumed to be U.S.
$220 million to $230 million.
This includes an estimate of the impact to revenue of U.S.
GAAP which will be updated as we close 1Q ‘16.
The benefit to adjusted EPS from Veda net of acquisition financing cost is about $0.10 to $0.15 per share.
As a reminder adjusted EPS excludes acquisition amortization expense.
For modeling purposes you can assume an average cost of our Veda acquisition debt during 2016 of about 2.5%.
Veda’s seasonality of revenue is similar to Equifax with 2Q revenue typically the highest from the seasonality perspective; 1Q generally the lowest revenue; and 3Q and 4Q somewhat similar in terms of revenue.
The spread between 2Q and 1Q revenue has recently been in the range of 7% to 10%.
Now let me turn it back to Rick.
Thanks John.
Some summary comments before we go to the Q&amp;A.
As I have mentioned before to all of you and as many of you had noted in our conversations in the write-ups the level of execution and the momentum that this team has generated in 2015 is the best in my 10 years here.
So I think it is truly remarkable what they have done.
We are well-positioned for growth opportunities that lie ahead and our ability to take on any of the challenges that may confront us.
In coming years the revenue going to be contributed from the class of new products that we just launched and expected to exceed our historical leverage that there is wind at our back.
Our enterprise growth initiatives including expanding insights driven Cambrian healthcare trended data and auto will not only enhance our competitive position but also deliver growth opportunities for years to come.
All of these efforts are expected in our opinion to offset the rate anticipated slowdown of U.S.
mortgage market which as you know started to decelerate over the course of 2015.
While it’s impossible to predict where the mortgage market is going go especially when I looked this morning the ten-year treasury is under 1.6.
Forecast range from down 20% to up mid single-digits.
Our forecast that we’ve given you for 2016 is anticipating that the mortgage market will be down single-digits in 2016.
And obviously our expectation is that team in both Workforce Solutions and USIS as they have done for many many years outperforms that quite significantly.
Obviously if rates continue to stay low as they are there may be some market upside to what occurs in the mortgage market and we’ll know obviously as we head deeper into the year.
2016 is yet again expected to be another strong year of performance for the Company.
For the year we expect revenue including the impact of Veda to be between $3 billion and $3.1 billion reflecting constant currency revenue growth of 15% to 19% that’s going to be partially offset by about 2 to 3 points of FX headwind.
This is consistent with our comments in October that the organic constant currency growth would be at the high end of our long-term range of 6% to 8%.
I’ve got to say it again that’s the high end of the range coming off of constant currency growth last year of 12%.
So it’s I think quite remarkable.
As John mentioned we also expect to add another 1 to 2-point of tuck-in acquisitions throughout the year.
These additional acquisitions are obviously beyond Veda which as he said is not including in the first quarter of 2016 outlook.
Adjusted EPS is expected to be between $4.95 and $5.05 which is up 10% to 12% for the year.
Excluding approximately $0.13 per share of negative impact from FX this reflects constant currency organic EPS growth of 14% to 15%.
For the first quarter we expect organic revenue to be between $685 million and $695 million reflecting constant currency organic revenue growth of 8% to 10% to be partially offset by about 3 points of FX headwind in the quarter.
First quarter adjusted EPS is expected to be between $1.14 and $1.16 which is up 7% to 8%.
Excluding $0.04 per share of negative impact from FX this reflects constant currency organic EPS growth of 10% to 12% for the first quarter.
Again we expect to close Veda in the first quarter but we’re not including it in the estimate.
Maybe during Q&amp;A we’ll talk about why it’s going to push forward [ph] for that one month.
In 2016 we are also going to shift our focus to adjusted EBITDA margin that we talk about that throughout the call since it better represents the true operating performing of the Company.
2016 we expect our adjusted EBITDA margin to expand by solid 75 basis points over last year’s 34.8% EBITDA margin.
In our modified multiyear business model we expect adjusted EBITDA margins to be in the upper 30% to 40% range with annual acceleration of at least 25 basis points.
So with that operator if you’d open it up for questions for audience it’d be great.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from David Togut with Evercore ISI.
Thank you.
Good morning Rick and John; and congrats on the strong results.
Rick could you give us your outlook for the health of the consumer by major geographies served? Given some of the trends we’re seeing globally do you think the consumer will hold up? Dave that’s a great question obviously with the volatility we’ve seen in the first five or six weeks of 2016.
John and I spend a lot of time with our teams talking about that.
I can’t at this juncture draw a connection between equity market volatility and the health of the consumer in our major markets around the world.
As you know we operate in about 19 different countries and have a great pulse on what’s going on with customer many cases on a daily basis across different verticals different industry sectors and combined that with some very smart people internally and externally we leverage on a routine basis economists that help us think through consumer small business lending trends.
And we are not see a slowdown in our markets maybe exception here or there but nothing material David that gives me concern that the forecast we just gave you for guidance is not very attainable.
We’re just not seen that strong correlation.
So at this juncture in our major markets around the world the consumers continue to be healthy.
We described it I think it was a few quarters ago is in a sweet spot we still believe that and feel it and we see it in our numbers.
Great thank you.
And then could you talk about operating leverage for 2016? Most of your margin comments were more mid to long-term which were very helpful.
But we saw Workforce Solutions’ margin up in the fourth quarter for example 430 basis points.
So how should we think about sort of margin profile by business segment for this year? Let me give you the aggregate and I’ll ask John to go to the details.
But I did guide at the very end about 75 basis -- we’re talking EBITDA now David.
75 basis points of margin expansion at the corporate level 2016 over 2015 what you can see there is continued margin expansion in businesses that have been expanding now for quite some time that EWS as you alluded and USIS that trend will continue.
Number two we intentionally made investments in PSOL in 2015 positioning them for better growth in 2016 and beyond.
That’s kind of the highest now.
So you’ll start to see margin expansion in PSOL from levels you saw in 2015.
We also invested in two main areas in International that are behind us now one was as you’re very aware of standing up of the UK government contract which was a yearlong having investments and now the revenue starts to come because it was virtually no revenue in 2015.
Secondly we talked about kind of regionalization of platforms and people and processes to give us a long-term more cost efficient international model.
Those investments were largely made in 2015; those have now been anniversaried.
So you’ll start to see International and PSOL margins expanding this year and obviously International I alluded to will be -- also their margins will be enhanced with the addition of a very high margin successful business in Veda.
Beyond that do you have any other… Yes.
The only thing I’d add is compliance and security expenses continued to tremendous growth in 2014 2015 still more substantial investment in ‘16 but we do expect over time those are going to moderate in terms of the increases although still be substantial.
So we should see some accretion over time related to the moderation of those curves.
I’ll make a statement here John correct me if I am wrong David to give you a little more texture maybe to what you’re looking for.
If you look at each individual BU and you look sequentially ‘16 versus ‘15 every BU’s EBITDA margin will go up from 2015 and 2016’s expectation.
You’ll see much larger expansion in the USIS and EWS as you’ve seen over the past several years; should see some across PSOL and International; and then overall we will expand because you’re just not going to see the degradation from the last two.
That’s very helpful thanks.
Just a quick final question.
Rick you called out 280 million Work Number records which is up pretty substantially.
Can you give us a sense of how you’re thinking of the growth of this business particularly as The Work Number records increase are seeing a much greater hit rate on searches by clients? David I think this business -- all four businesses are executing high and have great growth opportunities.
These guys are in early stages of the growth opportunities.
It’s not only going to 280 to 300 increase hit rate as you mentioned; it’s also -- we are so early and I gave you some sense of the growth rates by verticals.
And it’s amazing; these are very very high double-digit growth rates in the verification side.
We’re such -- we are so rightly penetrated in many of the high growth markets; there are years of growth to go on the verification side in the U.S.
alone.
Let me add to that which is not the heart of your question growth from the analytics platform that we’ve built on the employer side.
And I gave a little comment which I didn’t expand upon but I will now in my prepared comments David.
The appetite for customers in geographies around the world for us to take this platform of The Work Number to their geographies is stronger now than it’s ever been.
And we have got a team working full speed couple of main geographies around the world so I’m not going to get involved in detail on where but to solve the same problems that we are solving here there.
So long way of saying the growth opportunity is significant it’s multiyear and it’s not just the U.S.
And we will take our next question from Paul Ginocchio with Deutsche Bank.
Hey Rick just couple of questions on the trended data.
I was just wondering first if you want to -- probably too sensitive but if you want to talk about maybe the price premium or the ASP for trended data versus credit snapshot.
Also wanted to know what percentage of mortgages currently use or kind of pull The Work Number and where you think that’s going to be at sort of -- what is this currently; what could be it at year-end and maybe what you think could be out two to three years from now? Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Yes your comments were right; I am not going to the level of pricing increase we get from trended data.
But the way to look at it is the value derived on an ROI basis from the mortgage underwriters from looking at data over multiple years versus a short time is significant as a result of willing to pay more for trended data.
The other point I alluded to in my prepared comments Paul was we are going trend more than just the credit file and take our really unique data assets that no one else has and start trending those.
Think about the value of trending income data versus taking a snapshot in time and then you take the utility data.
So the trending -- I really mean this is sort of the trending of data especially the unique data assets we have I think creates innovative products and solutions for the years to come.
As far as the mortgage market on Workforce Solutions again we don’t disclose that level of detail.
I’ll leave it at this though there is still significant room.
And David Togut kind of alluded this.
At the database grows the hit rate goes up; it benefits all verticals including mortgage but we still have penetration opportunities not just on hit rate but by account in the mortgage arena in EWS much like we do in auto insurance credit card government and others for The Work Number.
If I could just ask a follow-up I think you left guidance for USIS relatively stable under the new system versus the old.
I am just wondering with the opportunity the trended presents to you why would you have kind of not set up a little bit? There is a couple of things one is short term as we look at ‘16 and then I’ll go to multiyear two.
For ‘16 there is one primary thing going on there.
You’ve got significant headwinds specifically in the first half of the year in USIS for mortgage.
Mortgage’s biggest quarters were the first and second quarter and as we said before it starts to decelerate in second half.
So that’s why I left that model consistent for ‘16 Paul.
In fact I think it would be at the lower end of that range in ‘16 to be very clear with you.
And then as far as the multiyear model I’d not ratchet [ph] that up; I’d rather do that once I have success under our belt and we see just how big this is going to be.
So I think it’s a little premature business.
But at the right time once we see the success and traction as you know there is lives in mid-year and will be a lot smarter at the end of the year and if model justifies being changed at that time we will.
Great.
Thanks Rick and congratulations on the Social Security Administration contract.
If I could just really quickly ask for the my online social security accounts how many times a year do you think they’ll verify each of those 22 million accounts on average? Thanks.
Great question I have no idea.
Okay.
Good question Paul.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Manav Patnaik with Barclays.
Yes good morning gentlemen.
Rick nice to hear as always a lot of progress but it sounds like at least with all of your initiatives you guys have taken that up one notch like level there.
And I think you still have your NPI target of 10%; I know I have asked this many times before.
It doesn’t sound like you need to motivate people by taking it up but at what point do you do sort of push yourselves even further to the target up? I think of it this way I did mention that the revitalization in NPI that we launched in late ‘14 benefited in the ‘15 class one of the strongest classes ever and that bode will well for next three years.
So it’s moving in the right direction.
Two you always have as you think about the vitality index Manav you get big chunks of product roll off every once in a while.
So making up big chunks of products is harder than it sounds just to stay at 10%.
But three maybe most importantly you’ve heard us now talk for about two years around EGI.
It’s not about innovation it is taking large complicated growth initiatives across multiple geographies and making sure we sustain the kind of growth we need there.
And that was I think 20% growth I alluded to in my earnings call.
So look at it totally and the contributions from NPI and EGI it is significant.
So I don’t feel compelled at this juncture to ratchet up 10% beyond 10%.
Okay.
And then in terms of the margins the 25 basis points still I mean -- I guess this clearly sounds like an element of conservatism to that.
Like what are the puts and takes that go through your planning when you still stick with 25 as opposed to maybe 50? I think you know us well enough by now; we tend to be thoughtful and maybe little conservative in our guidance.
We guided 25 basis points for 2015 what was the -- operating margin was up 90 basis points and guiding 2016 with EBITDA margin up 75 basis points.
So I don’t want to starve the business and you heard John talk about investment and CapEx while was higher than we have historically the standardized platforms to bring Cambrian global to facilitate faster more profitable growth.
So Manav I think it’s Rubik’s Cube and I think that combination of really strong organic growth that we’ve talked to you about combined with margin expansion of 25 basis points.
If we can get this business to do that year in and year out and get to our aspiration of goals we alluded to 40% EBITDA margin I think that’s pretty damn good.
I hope you agree.
That’s fair.
And then just one last one from me I mean I know you said it and your guidance obviously implies as well where you don’t expect a consumer recession.
But just trying to understand like if equity markets operators drag and we do get there like obviously Equifax today is much different than what it was in 2008 2009.
So any high level comments on which areas should hold up and which areas would be a hit? We’re not anticipating a global recession at this juncture.
If it does occur I look today versus how we were positioned as a company in 2007 has been dramatically different LEAN as an example.
And our ability to operate global platforms and take global processes and improve them take cost out and act and react to recessionary environment is far greater today than it was.
We were in our infancy stage of understanding globalizing the platform globalizing the process and deploying LEAN around the world so we could rack much fast if we had to in that environment.
Two just the overall pipeline of products we have much stronger now.
We are in early days of NPI; back then EGI did not exist; and so just the ability to grind out organic growth didn’t exist then.
And lastly we have built some counter -- two other points countercyclical products that are bigger now; we do well -- think unemployment [ph] as an example EWS that we do well in a recessionary environment.
And we’re more global today especially with the addition of Veda and their platform.
If the entire globe hits a recession that doesn’t really help you.
But if it’s isolated to a few of the developed markets the fact that we’re bigger global enterprise may help us as well.
We will take our next question from Andrew Steinerman with JP Morgan.
Hi Rick.
I would like to ask you about the Veda revenue and EPS assumptions that you highlighted for the 10 months included in Equifax.
On kind of a like-for-like basis what type of revenue growth does that assume and when you talk about the EPS accretion are you counting on core synergies? Yes.
I’ll take a crack at it and John you can jump in.
Think about Veda as a business that kind of fits right into our organic growth model which is 6% to 8% and maybe the upper end of that upper part of that range versus the lower part of that range.
So nicely in our organic growth target not just for ‘16 but year in and year out and much like the rest of the world and there is opportunity for tuck-in acquisitions in the geographies that are exciting to us in these early days.
On the -- what was the second question? Core synergies.
It does not include synergies.
So we didn’t assume any meaningful synergies in 2016.
Yes.
I said on cost side.
Yes there really aren’t many cost synergies.
In fact it’d be just the opposite.
We’re adding to cost Veda to brings things like Cambrian and InterConnect and other things to help link data and grow faster.
Andrew if you look at the last reported revenue of Veda and then take a look at what we have just indicated growth rate for 18 months for that to be in the high single it’s near 10%.
Okay.
And just more on that.
Rick are you counting a lot on comprehensive data being a meaningful impact to the Australian market over the next couple of years when thinking about the Veda acquisition? The model did not contemplate that Andrew.
I’d tell you what I walked away on my last visit with the team down there more impressed with the way in which contributors have been contributing data positive I should say.
So it’s not right now in our guidance it’s not in the model we use to justifying buying the company.
But I’m more hopeful and impressed now than I was in early days that it will be a meaningful change down the road.
We will take our next question from Gary Bisbee with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
You already commented on USIS maybe being towards the lower end of the long-term targets but how about the other businesses; are any of them in position to be above the high end this year or do we think those targets by segment are good places to be for 2016? Look the ranges are there for a reason; we think they’re pretty solid ranges.
And you’re going to see nuances and noise quarter-to-quarter as you guys know and maybe even year-to-year but over multiple years those ranges are still pretty good.
The one -- again one business that’s really clicking on all cylinders and probably has more runway to exceed would be EWS.
Their sandbox is just -- it’s a bigger sandbox and there less mature business and they’ve got early days of growth.
If there is one that you’ve got to say maybe has more opportunity to outperform it’s that one.
And would that include your commentary about mortgage being much tougher comps still able to be where you are? Absolutely.
And the other thing I’d say maybe too is -- so yes that’s including the mortgage environment I just alluded to down single-digits and we’ll have to outperform it.
Obviously if mortgage is stronger and we expect that benefits EWS as well as USIS.
But then the other business maybe short term in 2016 I think about having maybe more runway then that long-term model would be PSOL because they’ve got some pretty good things going on as they redefine their model as well.
And then question on within International on Latin America a two-part question I guess.
It seems like there is a lot weaker economic activity in a bunch of those markets and you face a really tough comp.
So how are you thinking about that? And then specifically can you comment on how much inflation in Argentina is driving the growth of that segment versus volume or unit sales of your offerings? Thank you.
Yes I don’t think we break that.
That’s second part.
But the first part is and I think I alluded to in my comments what’s allowing International to continue to grow at the rates growing in spite of difficulty economic environments in Latin America and other parts of the world too is innovation.
I mentioned that the majority of their -- two-thirds of their revenue in these large geographies are generating vitality indexes from new product innovation above 10%.
So if it weren’t for that and they are also benefactor of EGI obviously as well.
But if it weren’t for those innovative approaches to products and EGI they would not be performing like they’re performing.
Great.
And then just one last clean up one.
Do you have -- I know it’s early but do you have a sense for what we might expect the amortization and depreciation from Veda to be? Thank you.
It’s early.
And obviously as the transaction closes these numbers will be updated.
But acquisition amortization right now we’re assuming it somewhere in the neighborhood of $95 million.
We’ll take our next question from Jeff Meuler with Baird.
Thanks.
This is Nick Nikitas on for Jeff.
Just switching back to Veda and maybe talking more about some revenue potential synergies; you mentioned TDX has seen some positive signs in Australia.
Do you guys really see that as an opportunity to leverage Veda’s presence throughout the region or if any potential avenues you see to drive additional growth into the future? Yes.
We’ve got a small team down the south in Australia and New Zealand that represents the debt management analytics platforms.
So yes having access to a much larger sales organization with people longer standing relationships will help our debt management growth.
But beyond that one we’re getting a business that’s got great organic growth opportunities; alluded the fact there is inorganic opportunities.
And then the others are bringing things like The Work Number to Australia bringing Cambrian to Australia bringing InterConnect to Australia bringing our global fraud platform to Australia.
It’s hard you can’t underestimate the relationship these guys have in Australia and New Zealand and the market presence they have with all major verticals is significant.
And they build out much like Equifax has in Australia and New Zealand a very wide array of unique data assets.
And if we can bring our knowhow to bear there to build products that is a great growth driver.
And then as someone -- I think that Andrew asked a second ago eventually when comprehensive as he referred to or positive data as many referred to it when that becomes mainstream guess what we know how to manage positive data and build platform on positive data really well.
And that in years to come there is another growth driver for us.
And just within the UK was TDX a sizable contribution to 4Q or is that still thinking about ‘16 more of a strong contributor there and if we are looking at growth rates similar low double-digit European growth rate is possible? Yes.
We saw very nice growth rates in the core UK business.
TDX continued to provide growth.
But we saw very nice growth rates in the core UK business as well.
And just to make sure everyone understands my answer.
The $95 million for Veda acquisition amortization is an annualized number; it’s not the ‘16 number it’s an annualized number.
We will take our next question from Andrew Jeffrey with SunTrust.
Hi.
Thanks good morning.
Rick it’s interesting the way the way the PSOL business has evolved generally and direct-to-consumer in particular and obviously Credit Karma was a big win.
Can you frame up perhaps the additional opportunities in DTC; is Credit Karma probably the biggest single opportunity you see out there recognizing that the market’s changing pretty quickly and you have some new entrants or are there other large potential targets too that could be callouts the way Credit Karma was? No doubt that Credit Karma in the U.S.
marketplace for the reseller side or the indirect channels we call is uniquely large piece of business.
So might there be a larger U.S.
piece of that? Might be; I don’t see it as probable.
The LifeLock is going to be a very good add to us expanding was PSOL does.
And also think about -- well you’ve got -- there is two other things that are important.
You’ve got now taking that same concept of Credit Karma to other geographies which we operate taking it to Australia taking to Canada taking to UK.
And also you’ve got Dann Adams.
Now one of beauties Andrew of moving leaders around the different businesses is they have a different perspective than the predecessor.
And Dann is looking at this business now saying kind of look at the breach market differently.
He is looking at saying how do I combine some of the assets we have from EWS where he was for five and half years into the global PSOL channel.
So it’s not just the large indirect resellers who give me hope for long-term growth in PSOL it’s the four levers we talked about plus taking other data assets into PSOL.
And I’ll ask you I guess the same question around Workforce Solutions.
It seems like every year there is another wrinkle another innovation another customer; has this been an exceptional period given developments like ACA where you’d say hey that this was just a remarkable time or are we looking at the pace of change and an opportunity set that is structurally bigger than you might have thought it was two or three years ago? It’s the latter and it’s by far the latter.
I can see a day where this businesses so dramatically bigger than it is today not just in U.S.
but global.
Andrew we are going wake up ex number of years and it’s going to be a couple of more geographies that are really important to us.
I talked about trended data.
We are just now in early days with trended data; we’re building the capabilities for trended data.
So I would be remiss if I would say the leadership that was there was outstanding; they did a hell of a job and I am sure -- and Dann has done a hell of a job out there as you know and we’ve seen the financials.
We’ll continue that progress and take this business to next level.
And it’s not farfetched to see at some juncture EWS being bigger than our core 117-year old credit business at margins equal to if not higher than USIS.
So that’s kind of how we think about that.
If regulation continues to extend the opportunities to expand the compliance business so it’s not just verifiers it’s in employer as well both side of the business.
Okay that’s pretty ambitious and pretty exciting.
Thanks.
We’ll take our next question with Andre Benjamin with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
I think most of my questions have been answered.
I guess on the back of the question that was just asked about the EWS it’s clear that there is a lot of demand for these solutions globally.
I guess in the U.S.
is there any place that you can call out as a major area of focus beyond -- I think most of us clearly get the case in autos mortgage and government but are there very obvious large areas that you should be going after that you are not today? No I think we’ve got our toes into everything but it’s all relative it’s -- I hate this baseball analogy but again are we in the bottom half of first inning or the top half of the ninth inning.
In most cases we are very early stages.
So the credit card is important to us the insurance is important to us prescreening is important to us.
So thinking about anywhere we are having affirmation that someone is employed and the confirmation how much someone makes across almost every vertical there is a need to that.
So we are into virtually all of them Andre but there are some we’re very very early days where penetration has got years to go.
And on PSOL -- I apologize if you covered this before I jumped on.
But I know you took up the growth rate longer term.
And was there anything in particular about the re-org that should drive a material change in the strategy or is it really just getting everyone on the same page seeing the same numbers and having unified goals? Good question.
It’s the latter.
Structure does not necessarily always facilitates faster growth or in fact growth to be slower.
This is -- it just intellectually makes sense to have one team manage every aspect of the strategy for consumer regardless of how the consumer buys that product directly from us or through a partner of our.
So that’s why we did that.
I don’t think that in itself changes the growth profile.
It’s executing against the four-pronged strategy we laid out last year that gives us confidence that the growth of PSOL multiyear model is slightly higher than past.
We’ll take our next question from Brett Huff with Stephens.
Good morning Rick John and Jeff; and congrats on a nice job.
Thank you Two questions; one just focusing on EWS; you talked about the geographic expansion opportunity.
The way I understand that business works you need a database of numbers in order to really start having a product to sell.
And you mentioned you had teams on the ground in several geographies.
Are they just there constructing that database and kind of how long does it take to get to a scalable product in those geos? And then I have one follow-up.
It’s going to take a while.
This is -- when I think about the multiyear model we communicated earlier it does not contemplate internationally and I would never do that.
So it’s going to take a while to build that database.
But we’re good at it; we know how to do it; we get funds invested into it; we’ve got people invested into it; we’ve got customers we know very well; we’ve got the technology; we’ve got the platforms; we know how to do.
We think it’s a lot of good.
This is something you look at over a five-year period of time and say got it now it’s growing revenue versus fourth quarter 2016.
And then just a bigger picture question; I’m trying to check off all I think are the major growth opportunities; wondered if you could just rank them in terms of your excitement? I guess the categories are trended data Cambrian the NPI/EGI and maybe talking about Work Number going International; maybe there is another one or two I’m missing.
But as you think about the three-year opportunity in those which ones are -- kind of how do you rank them? We’re so good at we’ve done for so long is NPI and EGI.
So that’s something that obviously is investor or analyst thinking about it.
So we have a level of confidence and continuing it the way just continue it if not higher.
You alluded to the core EWS which was talked about quite a bit this morning continue to grow international EWS obviously is one.
Cambrian you can’t underestimate Cambrian.
Cambrian will not only allow us to link to different data assets together but build product s you could not never build before but build them faster.
So time to revenue would be faster with Cambrian.
Obviously small tuck-in acquisitions that were so good at but hopefully we’ll continue to be really good.
So we know how to do it.
That will be a vehicle for profitable growth going forward.
So the cool thing is I think you’d agree is it’s not just one two or three things we’re counting on for growth.
The foundation has been built by these -- our teams that have got so many levers to pull it gives you a pretty good confidence.
We’ll take our next question from Shlomo Rosenbaum with Stifel.
John just one could you verify for me? As I do my calculation on organic constant currency growth implied for 2016 revenue it seems to me that the range is 7% to 10% with the midpoint to around 8.5%.
Is that correct? That’s what we got to.
Okay.
And then Rick how concerned are you about the Australian economy and their tries to China and then impact of Veda or are you just really excited about all the opportunities to bring value over there and that’s going to overwhelm that concerns that you might have from economic perspective over there? Good question.
Yes we spend a lot of time trying to understand and deconstruct the economic drivers of the Australian economy dependency on exports to China.
We engage some of -- I think the best economic minds on a global basis as well as local basis in Australia to think about that and have locked away with a couple of thoughts Shlomo.
One is for 2016 unless there is an implosion that no one has ever contemplated in China they have diversified their and their economy as such that in fact the consensus even today is the stronger GDP in Australia than 2015.
The second thought I have is they’re going to have a session eventually.
You can’t define odds.
I think they’re the second longest running economy in history of modern time in the world the China had a last recession; they are going to have one eventually.
The third we’re making investment like this we don’t make any investment for a quarter for a year for two to three time.
This is a part of the world we want to be in.
We have great partner down there now with Veda.
They give us lens into so many more geographies down there beyond just Australia and New Zealand.
So it’s a generational bet not to stay a quarter or a year bet.
Shlomo just a reminder what we actually guided to on organic constant currency growth is high-end of the 6% to 8% range so… For the Company.
For the Company.
So that’s -- it’s within that range you indicated but the guidance was high end of 6% to 8%.
We’ll take our next question Bill Warmington with Wells Fargo.
So on the direct-to-consumer business you’ve talked in the past about your four-pronged strategy indirect; International; Equifax.com; the freemium market.
And you’ve had some success there especially on the direct-to-consumer resellers Credit Karma and LifeLock.
So I wanted to ask how sensitive is -- or economically sensitive is this business.
And then if it is economically sensitive how strong are the trends towards credit literacy and other demands in terms of ID theft protection and other drivers on the secular side that could potentially offset it? Yes.
it’s an interesting question.
I’ve not done a statistical correlation analysis between the GDP and PSOL business.
So if I gave you an answer it would be wrong.
But I think about drivers mostly likely help individuals want to buy a PSOL product or products it’s am I employed; am I experiencing some wage stability if not inflation; am I in the market for something those are tied together right helpful in the auto industry if I’m employed home purchase and so on and so forth.
So I am not sure how to answer that.
I’ve not done a strong correlation analysis between what economic drivers and sensitivities drive PSOL up or down.
Okay.
Well thanks.
And we have no further questions in queue at this.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to our moderator for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
I’d like to thank everybody for their time and their interest in Equifax and with that we’ll conclude the call.
Thanks everybody.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
You may now disconnect.