all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Laura Gagnon.
Laura Gagnon you may begin.
Thank you and welcome to the Ameriprise Financial first quarter earnings call.
With me on the call today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
After their remarks we will take your question.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the underlying performance of the company’s operations.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today's materials available on our website.
Some of these statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking statements reflecting management's expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today's date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today’s earning release our 2009 Annual Report to shareholders and our 2009 10-K report.
We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Jim.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining us for our first quarter earnings discussion.
During this call I will go into give you some insight into our performance for the quarter.
I’ll also provide an update on our pending Columbia acquisition and I will discuss our positioning for the rest of the year.
Walter will give you more detail on the quarter and our financial statements.
Let's begin.
As our first quarter results demonstrate we’re generating positive business momentum.
While client and advisory activity still have not returned to pre-crisis levels markets have continue to strengthen and it’s evident that our clients are slowly gaining confidence in the financial environment.
During the quarter we grew our client base our advisor productivity increased nicely and we saw continued strengthen wrap net flows.
Just as important our client and advisory retention remained at high levels and the long lasting client relationships that define our franchise are strong.
The good friends in our business and the rising markets contributed to solid results for the quarter.
The $215 million in operating earnings we reported today marks our best first quarter ever.
In fact we are approaching the earnings levels we are achieving before the financial crisis and the recession began.
For the quarter our operating net revenues were 25% compared with a year ago and our total owned managed and administered assets increased to $463 billion a 31% increase.
Our strong financial foundation and prudent operating principals continue to serve us well.
The balance sheet remains in excellent condition and we are maintaining on capital flexibility.
We have over $2.5 billion in excess capital including the capital we raced to pre-fund the Columbia acquisition and a strong liquidity pool of $4.3 billion in free cash.
I should note that yesterday we announced an increase in our quarterly dividend.
In addition we remain focused on expense control and re-engineering.
We are continuing to make investments for growth.
For example we have committed resources to our marketing campaign and new brokerage platform among other important kind of initiatives but as we invest we are maintaining our expense discipline just as we have in the past.
While distribution expenses grew as a result of our stronger sales in the quarter our controllable expenses remain well managed.
The recovery in our client metrics continues to be gradual and clients clearly don't fully trust the economic rebound.
But as we continue to build on our steady progress in combination with closing our acquisition and integrating Columbia Management into the company I feel good about our overall positioning and our ability to execute our agenda.
Before I provide a greater context for our performance I would like to note that we have presented operating earnings on both a consolidated basis and by segment.
Operating earnings exclude the impacts of the required accounting change which requires consolidation on our balance sheet of client assets and certain investment entities.
This rule change results on no financial impact on our financial strength or business.
Operating earnings also exclude integration cost and realize investment gains or losses.
We believe this measure gives you a clear picture of our performance and we will continue to provide this disclosure going forward.
Now I will move on to a discussion of the segment performance.
First in Advice and Wealth Management.
We reported pretax operating income of $54 million compared with a loss in a very different market environment we faced last year.
Retail client assets increased 31% over a year ago which reflects both higher markets and incremental increase in client flows.
This led to an increase of 20% in segment operating net revenues and a 6% pretax operating margin in the segment for the quarter the best margin for Advise and Wealth Management since the second quarter of 2008.
The More Within Reach advertising campaign was launched in January and which is built around our advisors has driven our brand awareness up to 62% which is an all time high.
Our advisors are enthusiastic about the new exposure for the brand which they prove as an important element of support we provide to help them grow their practices.
As a result of this and the other investments we are making to support them the advisor remained satisfied and engaged and our advisor retention rate remains very high.
At the same time advisor productivity continues to rebound with operating net revenue per advisor increasing 25% compared with a year ago.
The increase in productivity is also evidence in our wrap business where we had net inflows of $2.5 billion and 93% increase over a year ago.
Total wrap assets were approximately $1 billion at quarter end another all time high.
While flows in long-term contracts remain challenged as I will discuss shortly we are quite encouraged by the steady in wrap.
This indicates the clients are seeking broad based advice portfolio diversity.
You will notice that our total advisory count decrease during the quarter.
That’s a result of our continued focus on productivity.
For quite some time now less productive advisors have been leaving the system and we have been bringing in established and more productive advisors.
We slowed our recruitment efforts in the fourth quarter and into this year as we completed H&amp;R Block integration and introduce our new brokerage platform which will provide advisors with technology that will be among the best in the industry.
At the same time the environment for recruiting experienced advisors has changed quite significantly compared with a year ago when many firms in the industry were in trouble and advisors were actually looking for a stable company and brand.
Fewer advisors are switching firms now that conditions are stable.
That said our value proposition is appealing to a significant share recruits and our field leaders and recruiters are again ramping up their efforts.
While we did not bring in as many recruits as we did in the first quarter of last year our recruiting pipeline is beginning to build again.
In asset management we generated pretax operating income of $22 million which includes a $27 million expense relating to significant come back in Threadneedle’s estimated market valuation which Walter will address.
Excluding the Threadneedle item the segment’s operating earnings would have been $49 million and its pretax operating margin would have been 13%.
Operating net revenues increased 40% over a year ago.
The stronger results were driven by market appreciation as well as inflows of the past year and significant reductions in controllable expenses.
In terms of asset flows we recorded total net outflows of approximately $800 million but if we exclude Zurich related institutional outflows and Threadneedle and some expected dis-synergy outflows related to the Columbia transaction we would have been solidly in net inflows.
In the domestic business equity mutual funds remain in outflows.
While many of us in the industry expected investors to return the sideline cash to equities this development has not fully occurred despite the strength of the markets.
Investors remain cautious and continue to seek what they consider consistent returns rather than accept higher level of risk a trend that underscores the depth and impact of the crisis.
In our domestic institutional business we lost a few clients as we expect that we would as part of the process of combining Columbia's management team with ours.
Nevertheless domestic institutional sales were quite good and net flows were positive.
Internationally Threadneedle delivered another strong quarter highlighted by strong sales and retail net inflows of $1.3 billion.
Even with the Zurich outflows total Threadneedle net flows were positive in the quarter.
In terms of investment performance we continue to see positive trends in the domestic equity performance with 78% of equity funds above the Lipper peer medians on an asset weighted basis for the year.
At Threadneedle 93% of equity funds were above medium for both three and five year performance.
We continue to believe that Columbia Management acquisition will be an excellent addition to the Asset Management business.
We expect to close on May 1st and we continue to expect the final purchase price to be approximately $1 billion.
Similar to our experience in the domestic institutional business Columbia experience net outflows and low margin institutional counts that certain clients did not consent to change investment advisors.
Again this was a development we expected.
Nevertheless the total assets we will acquire ended the quarter at $189 billion a 15% increase since we announced the deal.
Our planning our integration is proceeding according to schedule and expectation and we remain confident that we will be able to execute the transaction and deliver on our financial projections for the deal.
From an operating perspective Ted Truscott and his management team are very pleased with the talented investment professionals we have assembled to lead our funds post close.
We will soon have a powerful Asset Management with strong performing funds in every style box.
The annuity segment reported pretax operating income for the quarter of $17 million up slightly from a year ago.
Walter will walk through the details of the segments earnings.
In variable annuities asset balances increased to $15 billion a 37% increase over a year ago and a 3% sequential increase.
Net inflows were low at $98 million in the quarter consistent with the generally slow sales environment in the industry and because our advisors were awaiting a pending product enhancement in another new product launch we believe sales will pick up again as clients confidence in the market continues to grow and as these products are introduced.
In fixed annuities our balances were $15 billion up 6% from last year.
As we told you last quarter fixed annuity sales slowed in response to the current rate environment.
While balances are expected to gradually decline in the coming quarters the book is continuing to generate solid returns.
The protection segment generated pretax operating income of $118 million for the quarter up 13% compared with last year.
Sales started to improve in the fourth quarter remain steady through the early part of this year.
In fact VUL and UL sales combined were up 64% compared with a year ago.
While we still haven't returned to pre-crisis levels we are seeing slow and steady progress.
The auto and home business continue to generate steady growth with another quarter of 9% year-over-year growth in policy counts.
The overall book of insurance business continues to generate strong returns.
In total as I look across our businesses while flows haven't yet returned in all product categories I am seeing improvement in our metrics decline activity and advisory productivity trending positively and with assets and account balances rising.
I believe we are positioned well for the remainder of the year.
Our business fundamentals are improving slowly but steadily.
We remain excited about the opportunities that Columbia acquisition and our other investments present and our financial foundation expense controls remain strong.
To wrap up I feel good about where we stand today.
We are focused on realizing the opportunities we created through the recession and we have a clear vision of how we intend to do that.
Now I will turn it over to Walter and later we will take your questions.
Thanks Jim.
We post the slides in our website again this quarter and they will be updated with my talking points after the call.
Please take a moment to review the Safe Harbor on page two and then turn to slide three.
This was a good quarter for us.
Reported and operating earnings per share were $0.81.
We had good operating revenue and continued strong expense management that drove improved managers.
All of our operating segments also reported solid performance and our balance sheet and liquidity continue to remain solid.
Turning to page four in the quarter the company has introduced new operating measures to provide additional transparency to our underlying business results.
The operating result exclude the impact of three items.
One a new accounting standard that required additional consolidation of certain investment entities onto our financial statements.
While these changes impact our balance sheet and income statement our exposure to these entities is unchanged and there is no impact on the underlying business.
While the new rule allows net income to be reported as non-controlling interest equity must still be reported in the retained earnings.
This will be a separate line item and it will add transparency.
Second acquisition related income of course and finally net realized gains or losses.
Our operating net revenue of $2.1 billion for the quarter represents an increase of 25% compared with last year.
And our operating PTI of $281 million is 85% higher than the first quarter of 2009.
While we realized only minimal Columbia related integration of course in the quarter these integration expenses are on target to total approximately $100 million by year end.
Please turn to the next slide.
You can see that the net income or loss attributable to the non-controlling interest is eliminated for both years resulting in reported net income of $214 million for the quarter.
EPS of $0.81 and return on equity of 9.3%.
Our operating net income is 62% better than last year while EPS is 35% higher than the first quarter of 2009.
The return on equity which excludes additional equity relating to CIEs is 9.7%.
Excluding the shares related to the pre-funding for the Columbia Management acquisition adjusted EPS would be $0.94 and adjusted to return on equity would be 10.6%.
For future reference we notice in your estimates that is many of you excluded the seasonal issuance of share in the first quarter related to long-term center plans.
We issued $2.7 million share in the first quarter of 2010 and 3.1 million in the same period of 2009.
On the next slide operating net revenue growth was strong at 25% and revenues have been on a strong trajectory over the past five quarters.
Keep in mind the fourth quarter of last year includes hedge fund performance fees which we always booked in the fourth quarter.
Underlying improved revenues were strong management fees driven by markets and flows over the past year.
Distribution fee growth is impacted by markets as well but continues to be moderated by the slow recovery in client activity.
Management advise and distribution fees were up 36% over a year ago and down 6% sequentially due to hedge fund performance fees recognized in the fourth quarter.
Excluding those performance fees management's fees are up sequentially as you would expect.
Premiums have been stable up 6% over a year ago and down 2% sequentially.
And net investment income reflect a strong growth in fixed annuity balance is year-over-year as well as impact of redeploying cash at attractive yields during the first half of 2009.
Net investment income was up 26% over the first quarter of 2009 and down 2% compared with the prior quarter.
Expenses also continued to be well managed with the benefits of our reengineering program funding investments and increasing our operating leverage to the markets.
As Jim said we are making many investments for growth including the new advertising campaign and brokerage platform.
Just as revenue in the fourth quarter are skewed by hedge fund performance fees so too are expenses.
In the form of compensation paid in relation to the strong performance.
In the first quarter of 2010 investment performance and center accruals are also higher year-over-year.
Excluding these timing impacts G&amp;A is actually down.
Overall though despite strong rising markets and good business growth.
Our G&amp;A expenses remain under control and flat to last year.
On the next slide I would like to address the segments.
First AWM here you will see that we are making strong progress on margins and Advice &amp; Wealth Management segment.
In fact the 6.1% operating margin this quarter is the highest in nearly two years.
This improvement is driven by record wrap balances stronger distribution fees even though longer dated decline activity continues to be below pre-crisis levels and reduction in general and administrative expenses 7% year-over-year reflecting very strong expense management as well as the full integration of the H&amp;R Block acquisition.
In the asset management segment we are making strong progress toward our margin goals.
Our operating margin in the segment was 6% or 13% if we exclude the unusual $27 million expense related to Threadneedle's evaluation.
The expense is driven by a more than doubling a Threadneedle's evaluation of over a year ago which is extremely unusual but of course it’s good news.
As the value of the business arises so to our commitments the Threadneedle employees and center plan and because of the accounting we recognize a full year's change in value in the first quarter upon completion of the evaluation rather than amortizing over time.
Last year declines in Threadneedle evaluation benefited earnings by $10 million.
The PTI and revenue growth in the segment reflects market improves net inflows over the year a moved to higher fee business at Threadneedle and stronger expense control.
Please turn to slide 10 which about the annuity segment.
Last year annuity segment profits were impacted by dislocation in the markets.
We had large numbers improving both directions from inversion credit spreads widening death benefits and other impacts.
This makes a comparison to 2010 difficult.
Focusing on what happened in the 2010 quarter there are two key trends you need to be aware of in assessing this quarter's annuities PTI.
Lower net investment income and higher benefit swing.
We are implementing a new portfolio allocation program for valuable annuities which we call enhanced portfolio navigator that will ship a long portion of fixed accounts from general accounts to separate accounts and establish a fund to fund structure that will provide us with daily of underlying fund investments.
This will allow us to match our hedge assets much closer to the underlying investment to continue to mitigate basis risk.
To ship asset to separate accounts we liquidated about $600 million in general account assets which negatively impacted net investment income by about $5 million and resulted in about $30 million in realized gains.
We offset these realized gains primarily in the general account backing fixed annuities strengthening the entire portfolio.
The increase in benefit was driven by the mark-to-market of the hedge variable annuities benefits driven by model changes FAS 157 non-economic impacts and basis risk.
While there is a material DAC offset of the mark-to-market living benefit.
It was mitigated by the accelerated DAC amortization driven by gains and valuable annuities.
The offsetting losses and fixed annuities did not have a material DAC impact.
On the next slide the protection segment continues to generate stable revenues and earnings.
While we still haven't seen activity are come back to pre-crisis levels sales are up year-over-year.
In the quarter claims were marginally higher in the auto and home business relating to weather events.
But these impacts were partially offset by improved benefit expense in the life and health lines.
On next slide we continue to effetely manage our balance sheet fundamentals.
We hold excess capital of $2.5 billion which includes approximately $1 billion we will use to fund the Columbia purchase next week.
And we have a sizeable liquidity pool.
During the quarter we issued $750 million in debt raised cash to $600 million to implement the enhanced variable annuity portfolio allocation product and increased cash to facilitate the payment of $450 million in dividend from the life company to the holding company.
In the near-term we will use cash to close on Columbia transfer cash to separate accounts in variable annuities and we pay $340 million in debt in November.
As of March 31 post to dividend to the holding company our estimated RBC ratio was well above 4 100%.
And our invested asset portfolio remains strong.
We had unrealized gain position of approximately $1 billion.
Our balance sheet ratios continue to remain conservative.
Lastly a variable annuity hedge fund continues to be effective good operating leverage and we are making progress toward our financial goals.
Our balance sheet remains strong including our capital and liquidity position.
And overall we believe we are well-positioned.
Now we will take questions.
Okay.
Good morning.
Questions around asset management.
It looks like there was generally some pressure on flows.
The first question would be how much disruption is likely to occur going forward.
You mentioned the $600 million due to the Columbia synergy and institutional and out net flows in retail were negative $1.1 billion.
Was there anything any disruption there due to the ongoing acquisition? So maybe the first question would be what's the outlook from potential outflows from the Columbia acquisition going forward? Okay.
Hi Andrew.
Good morning.
This is Jim Cracchiolo.
Hi Jim.
We actually think the Columbia acquisition and the integration on the alignment is going very well.
The institutional outflow we experienced was for one of the managers that we were consolidating and that was clearly outlined that was part of our plan.
In regards to the other outflows that we experienced to be very straight we didn't have good funds in those categories that we were selling.
Now sales overall are still a little slow particularly on the equity side and then in the area that is the funds were coming in – the fund flows were coming in we didn't really have those categories so fully in our lineup.
And now with Columbia that should help things as we go along as we match up what Columbia brings with Ameriprise.
But I don't see anything significant from the disruption at this point in time.
I think we are pretty much aligned with Columbia a similar on their side of the house.
And so we are still feel I'm very good according to our original plans.
Jim and then just looking over to Threadneedle is the outflows a $1.3 billion this quarter I think it was a similar amount last quarter.
But where do the Zurich assets stand at this stage in the game? And you talked about in the release it talks about being lower margin.
What exactly are the margins on those assets? Well the first of all Threadneedle continues to get good inflows in much higher fee basis.
So in the other retail funds and their institutional accounts particularly around products like emerging markets and emerging market debt so in that the actual revenue net and is significantly higher than what is leaving.
Now in regard to zero it gets a continuation particularly around their own accounts and their closed book of businesses.
And so this is what we have been experience different – sewer Rick this is what we have been experienced it's consistent the fees on that is very low debt.
So it's not a material revenue drain.
Having said that we don't like any say assets leaving particularly from a perspective of the size of on our gross basis but from our revenue perspective we more than offset by multiples based on the new revenue that we bring in from the new assets that we garner.
And where does the direct number just I don't know if you have a rough number as where the assets stand right now? Laura do you have that – it’s… I don't have an exact number Andrew but I know there is – total AUM.
And the revenue is obviously substantially lower than that.
Got it.
And then just one last question.
On the – in Advice &amp; Wealth Management the $13 billion of assets there in money markets up 53 basis points some spread you sited in the release.
Could you give a sense of what you are crediting right now the clients and what kind of yields you are getting on those assets? Andrew the assets the brokerage cash is non-balance sheet for Ameriprise.
So the fee that we are getting on their well as the spread fee comes through the distribution fee line in the AWM segment.
Right.
And could you give us a sense of each side of the spread or? Right now the spread on the brokerage cash is low because – and we are recovering the fees from that standpoint.
But the – and we invested out from a standpoint through some strong balance sheet through various arrangements which have helped give us the extra 20 some odd basis points in the spread.
Right.
But you think at some point you invested significantly higher yield in short-term money? Is that the upside? Absolutely.
As we spoke about it and the short-term yield curve goes up that will give us substantial benefits and we anticipate that in the latter part of 2010.
Right.
Because normally you are going somewhat north of 100 right? We have gotten to those ranges actually.
All right.
Thank you.
And much higher.
Thank you.
Thanks Andrew.
Thank you.
The next question is from Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
It's Alex Blostein.
Question on Columbia so it looks like since the beginning since the time the deal was announced you guys lost by my math maybe $5 billion to $6 billion in outflows.
Can you give us a sense – I know you mentioned that's lower-fee assets.
Can you give us a sense of what the blended fee rate is on remaining Columbia assets and then in your projections of 25% operating margin by 2012.
What did you guys assume for the ending balances for Columbia by the time the detail closes and then the flow outlook going forward? Let me start with the balances.
Columbia as we said is up about 15% from when we did the deal a lot driven of course by markets.
They are at about $189 billion today.
They have been in an outflows.
I think part of the outflows for instance from what we just saw experienced was from some lower margin an IMA account.
One of the bank clients down in Charlotte that didn't want to re-up.
So it is not a significant loss from a revenue strain.
The other flows on retail have been mainly mixed some in – some out mainly in the sub-advice category again.
So we think they have been holding pretty strong through this change.
And overall when we look at what we actually purchased to where they are today it is actually in a more favorable stance because of the appreciation of the assets.
There has been no material change in what I would call the revenue streams.
Walter? Right.
As evidenced by the fact when we close on the 5/1 the purchase price will not be adjusted by any material amount and that was as we told you was calibrated to a revenue calculation.
As Jim has indicated these were index institutional money which had very low distal [ph] left.
So from that standpoint the transaction is performing as we thought.
Okay.
And now on the fee rate the blended fee rate would you say is comparable to RiverSource about maybe 50% basis points or so? It's comparable to RiverSource yes.
Got it.
And then on the Advice and Wealth management business it seems like the productivity continues to improve obviously with a reflection of you guys trying to cut down some lower-producing FAs but also recruiting.
Do you guys have any targets in mind in terms of where you want to be as far as FA productivity any so like near-term target would be helpful.
Well as we look at the advisor productivity it is recovering from the low points of the market.
We are not back to the productivity levels we were at pre-crisis yet.
Now I was looking at I mean the asset fees are coming back more quickly because of the market appreciation.
Some of the transaction revenue is still down like on some of these longer-term contracts that we think we are starting to see some increase and in greater activity.
We have been gaining clients over the course of the year and that has been adding to our overall client activity as well.
So I would want to see the revenue per advisor continue to increase and probably in the double-digit category low to mid-double digits in that sense and really starting to get back to more of a full-fledged activity across their book of business.
And I think we are starting to see some of that increase as we come and of course what will be important here is continued stability in the markets.
So as the markets continue to be less volatile client activity will come back as clients feel more comfortable to put more dollars to work.
So we are seeing dollars go back already into the wrap programs which are shorter-term type of contracts meaning that we can always rebalance them more quickly.
As they move into longer-term contracts that money becomes pretty much locked up even though we can reallocate the balances people still feel a little like they want access.
That is why we still have strong cash balances.
But I would continue to focus on the continued rise in revenue per advisor.
Now we have been taking out and losing some of the lower-producing advisors but the people we are bringing in are much higher in production.
And overall the overall production has gone up tremendously.
So we said 25% per advisor but it is overall 20% as we look at the total across the house as well.
Got it.
And then just one last one.
On wrap accounts it seems like the flow has been pretty steady kind of like in this mid– $2.5 billion $2.7 billion per quarter.
What would you guys say is the main source? Is that existing accounts or converting into your wrap account or is it just new money coming in and what is the sort of source of that? It's actually a combination of the three you just mentioned.
And so we have some money coming off the sidelines back into the accounts.
We have some new money coming in from new clients it's also from some of the advisors coming over to the house.
Got it.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Maybe you covered this and I am sorry if I missed it in the opening remarks.
But could you give us an update on the split of the assets at Columbia.
I think you mentioned a total AUM of $189 billion but could you give us a little more detail on the equities versus fixed income versus other accounts? I guess the latest information we have on the AUM if you look at the equity it is about $111 billion and the fixed income is about $77 billion.
Okay.
Okay.
And then a high-level question for you Jim.
As you look at results through the first quarter transaction activity maybe coming back a little bit margins at least on a core basis in your Advice and Wealth management and Asset Management segments improved modestly maybe more than modestly in Advice.
As it relates to your 2012 targets feeling better the same worse.
Any commentary as it relates to that? What I would say after another quarter of business activity is that we continue to feel good about the progress we are making.
I think on one end I continue to feel – if you are asking me am I feeling a bit more positive the answer would with absolutely yes based on market conditions being more stable and no one is necessarily at the higher level predicting a double dip here.
And more stability in the markets gives me more confidence because we are more of a retail client driven than institutional activity.
So that is all positive.
I would also say I am quite more positive because the Columbia now is about to close.
And I think we spent the last three or four months since we spoke last in our financial community meeting there was a lot of work going on to do and integrate and the people line up.
And all of that has gone really well from our perspective consistent with what we thought would be really good.
So the combination of those factors and I think as you start to see like the Advice and Wealth has come back a bit.
There is a lot of questions around that in the last quarter of whether we will continue to see some improvement and we are seeing some of that improvement as well.
So the answer to your question would be yes I am feeling a bit more positive.
Under our belt of traction that we are see in progress made.
There is always a lot of work to get to where we said we would ideally want to get to but we are continuing to move it along.
Thanks.
And then last one for me just on the tax rate.
I just want to understand what tax planning strategies means here.
Is this something – it sounds like it is a discreet event or a couple of events that are going to impact the results in the first half of this year and then there afterward you are back to your former target of 28 to 30.
Is there anything here that is sort of mixed shift or is this just the impact of a couple of discrete tax planning items? Okay.
Well they certainly are discreet items in there.
There is tax plans as it relates to international taxes and other things of that nature.
And to your point I believe that from the standpoint we did have guidance before of 28 to 30.
We lowered that to 25 to 27.
I believe that is sustainable into 2011.
Good.
The 2011 is sustainable at 25 to 27? Yes.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
The next question is from Suneet Kamath of Sanford Bernstein Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
The first question is on Threadneedle and the $27 million compensation accrual that you booked.
I guess it has been a little while since we've had to worry about this.
So can you just remind us exactly what this evaluation or appraisal is based on? Is it based on just the absolute earnings that Threadneedle delivers or is it based on sort of market comparables? Any detail there would be helpful.
Sure.
This is Walter.
It is based upon DCS.
It's based upon market comp.
It is based upon independent review from a third party.
It has to meet standards with the taxing authorities and FSA.
So it is a very comprehensive review that takes place and it is consistent to drive compensation.
So is the right way to think about this impact should we be thinking about it really as a 2009 event and as we think about that kind of margin in the first quarter I know you backed out the entire thing but is it based on really events and profitability that was generated in 2009 as opposed to this quarter? I think what you see there is an event and it really is an unusual event from the standpoint of the dramatic dislocation that took place and the comeback with the markets and with the comps as you take a look at the asset managers over there.
That is what really triggered the substantial and unusual aspect.
We always have some but it never reaches anywhere near that proportion.
We also had a situation because of last year many people stopped redeeming because of the low market so that compounded a little.
So it was the down market and then the precipitous coming back.
Again it is creating value that is basically – the good news of it it is basically three times or more than when we acquired the firm.
Got it.
Then just one last question on this topic.
If I go back to one of your presentations I think it was maybe 2005 where you first talked about the equity participation plan.
You noted that the expectation back then was that in 2009 the charge was expected to represent about 20% of the pre-EPP profit at Threadneedle.
Is that consistent in terms of what actually happened that 20% number? It is based upon market volatility on that – it is based upon market volatility on that and the charge on this it's based on market this was an unusual charge.
So I guess am trying to figure out if that 20% is still consistent with what happened in terms of the 2000 – charge that you booked this quarter? I am trying to gauge where you think the 20% – can you help me with that? Can you state what you think I said? Well you showed a slide I think it was maybe in Simon's presentation and you showed Threadneedle equity participation plan from 2004 to 2009 obviously ‘06 to ‘09 being estimates and you showed the EPP charge and the profit after tax after EPP that’s one of these bar charts.
Then over on the right it says in 2009 the EPP charge is expected to represent 20% of pre-EPP profit as compared to 35% in 2004.
I think I know – there are two elements to that.
I will have to go back and I'll check but I think the answer is the EPP targets at two factors.
One it has an approximation of around 10% of the profitability.
And then you have a change in evaluation that then drives it.
So that is basically what drives the element.
Here obviously in this quarter and this year because of the change it took the valuation portion of it way above.
Does that answer? I will go back and check the slide I have but that is the way it works.
Suneet what happened was in 2007 the firm's value continued to appreciate then in 2008 and 2009 they came down significantly based on the market dislocation.
At the time point we evaluate and so this year it bounced up significantly.
And so the good news is the firm is worth a lot more today and since they have a piece of it a small piece since we took back some of that a year ago part of that came back plus the additional upside that has transpired over the market that grew since that point in time.
So this overall is good news.
It is an exceptional charge one that we don't think continued on a normal basis.
And if you actually average this out over the length of the time outside of the volatility of it it actually is a reasonable number.
Okay.
I mean what I was basically getting is can we use this information to back into Threadneedle's earnings since you don't provide that.
I want to go back and check the context of that element.
Like I said there is a portion that represents that percentage and then you get the evaluation change.
That is why I want to go back and let me get back to you on that.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Eric Berg from Barclays Capital.
Pease go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Good morning Jim and good morning to everybody on your team.
So I wanted to follow-up on Suneet's question and then I have just two more so three questions all told.
First I am still struggling to understand why Threadneedle's value I know you have touched on this but I hope you can build on your previous answers.
When thread needle value has doubled in a year.
If a event hasn't doubled.
How do we think of – shouldn't the value of the company be roughly that unit be roughly that said unit be roughly proportionate to the assets which at least was not the case in the current valuation? Eric I think what you would do again this is a market driven valuation and so if you go back to January or February of last year which is one of the low points of the market I think you can actually see what was happening particularly whether here in Asset Management businesses or in the U.K.
And the values of the firms just dropped significantly as all the values of all the financial services companies if you look at the market caps of any financial services companies in the industries.
And so here again that is where we got – that valuation went down.
There was also take back from that from a financial perspective and I think if you look at the values of companies in the UK today and the Asset Management arena you will find where their valuations are.
Okay.
But the profitability… My next question… … is to come back assets are up and it is a combination of all those factors that really lended to the value of the earnings.
Okay.
That is helpful.
That rounds out my understanding.
That is helpful.
My next question is client activity.
You discussed repeatedly in this call how client activity is beginning to recover.
My question where do you best see this in your reported numbers? Specifically the wrap is doing well but it had been doing well.
Essentially you had been running at about a $2.5 billion rate for several quarters.
The Retail Mutual Fund business in the U.S.
has negative flows and of course you have your institution – well why don't I just end it there.
Seeing the negative flows in retail continue and seeing the stable but strong flows in wrap I would like to look in your financial supplement or in your other disclosures for numbers that speak directly to this assertion of improving customer activity.
Where should I look? Okay.
So Eric I think there is a combination of things that you could look at.
One is the operating revenue per advisor you can see it has increased nicely and it's consistent where we were at sort of the year-end overall.
But that is the first thing that is up significantly from the previous quarters.
Second is our overall flows and certain client activities improved.
So if you look at the wrap assets as you mentioned the numbers up at $100 billion we've received good inflows over the last few quarters again et cetera.
The other thing that I would probably say is that even though we say it is not fully recovered there is client activity back.
And you could see that money moving from some to have cash balances some activity picking up.
You can see some of the insurance sales increasing.
We also have brokerage activity that has increased tremendously on some of the transaction activity.
So there is that gradual progression that we see.
The issue that we are saying if you go back to pre-crisis we had more advisors more fully active against the balance of the full book.
So for us as an example last year we had strong activity in fixed annuities.
Variable was there but it wasn't as strong and right now variable is a little slower than we usually have and fixed actually because we haven't actually put higher rates out to the market because the interest rate environment is a bit low.
So some of that activity that we receive in there is not there.
Now I think variable will start to come back as we get some of the newer product out there and we are starting to see some pick-up right now for some of the enhancement we put out already in April.
So I think it is a combination of factors but you can see steady quarters from the quarters previous.
The last question relates to the Columbia acquisition.
I think you said in September at the end of September when you announced the transaction that you expect to save between the two companies combined call it $140 million $150 million pre-tax.
My question really is in two parts.
First what would that – can you remind us what would that number be expressed as a percentage of the combined companies' expenses.
And finally what is your take on where the ultimate call savings will end up? Thank you.
Savings – again you have to look at – you can't look at total expense because there are certain expenses that don't get directly impacted but that expense for the ones that we measure impacted in the 25% to 30% range.
And what was the second question? Okay.
And are you thinking next that you will end up there or not as stronger number or better than expected number? What is your current sense of where the ultimate cost savings will end up? Current sense is both on gross synergies and also on the net – negative synergies that we will wind up at target we are totally tracking right now.
So we are feeling certainly that we will be able to achieve the numbers we spoke about.
Thank you sir.
You're welcome.
(Operator Instructions) the next question is from Sam Hoffman from Lincoln Square Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi I just wanted to follow-up on some to the questions already been asked and just talk just about are you effectively reiterating your guidance for $0.46 of accretion to EPS and – this year from Columbia? In 2011? I think we were totally on track from Columbia.
Obviously from the standpoint – it is a month later than we anticipated the closing.
So we will have to take tall factors associated with that but right now you should assume there is no change until we have a complete review.
Because like I said the synergies are on target and the one-time comps are on target and we are certainly – the market is increased the AUM but we have closed later and then we have to (inaudible).
To stay on point I would say with no change.
Okay.
Then also in terms of the outflows the $6 billion year-to-date roughly and then also the outflows that took place at Ameriprise this quarter.
Are you saying the outflows that are to be had will be completely had before closing? So therefore after closing the flows should be at whatever run rate they are at organically? Can I ask a clarifying question? You said $6 billion year-to-date? From Columbia.
We just estimated that as a prior caller had estimated.
That is not correct.
That is not correct.
Okay.
What would the – go ahead.
The outflows are roughly in the $3 billion range and $2.9 of that billion is from this IMA account that I mentioned.
This indexed account that is a very low fee.
And so I think the total outflows that they provided us was about $3.5 billion so $2.9 billion is that one account I mentioned to you.
Okay.
So would you say that post the closing of the acquisition that all unusual outflows will cease and that we will be able to basically see the run rate business in terms of whatever organic growth rate it is at at that time? I think – it's Walter there is a natural shake out.
We assumed actually higher in our net negative synergy.
So right now we are in a situation but feeling good about it but we have to work through once we close but we don't see any issues over the horizon at this stage.
Okay.
And my other question was on the Variable Annuity benefits line.
I guess how should we think about the $24 million hit? I understand it was partially offset by DAC but then we can't see that because it is mitigated by other accelerations of DAC.
Is the $24 million hit on the Variable Annuities benefits line is that something that should continue going forward or is it a one-time? There is an element in there.
As we talked about the $157 million obviously as it affected the liabilities which we don't necessarily control from that standpoint as the valuation fee.
Element on basis as we talked about is the program we are launching.
We believe we will be able to manage that more effectively.
Even though it is managed effectively it will be an improvement.
And so as we work through it that asset should improve and certainly it helped – that was what helped drive on the DAC on the offset where we didn't get the benefit from – the gains actually offset the DAC amortization.
So yes normally we would not be taking gains of that magnitude and not have the impact on the amortization but the big element is here $157 million and we believe we will then get to the – improve the basis management as we element the enhanced Portfolio Navigator this quarter.
Okay.
Then Jim when do you see activity rates normalizing based on what you are seeing in the marketplace today? I wish I could tell you.
I think everybody feeling a bit better but I don't think the environment with the unemployment picture and the noise coming out of Washington gives people a lot of comfort every day.
So I think it will just be a continuing gradual.
This has been a big dislocation.
It's actually – the markets have come back I think a bit quicker than people had expected and I think the consumer will always take a bit longer.
We started as we said originally it takes at least six months after dislocation.
This was a more severe one.
We started to see activity come back six months later which was in the fourth quarter and things are gradually picking up again as people are starting to venture back in.
So things have come back.
People are putting money to work but having said that I don't think that if you speak to people that you know people are feeling go-go about the markets or putting all of their money at risk again or locking it down.
So I think that's going to take a bit longer.
But things are improving.
I think the climate is feeling a lot better but my personal opinion is I don't think we are back to everyone feeling very comfortable.
Thank you.
The last question is from Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning sorry for the bad connection.
I just want to follow-up on the asset retention question.
You talked about the $3 billion of outflows from Columbia.
Walter can you talk about what were your negative synergy assumptions in the deal and is it fair to assume that we are through the biggest institutional outflows you expect or from a timing standpoint can we still expect to see some fall-off there? That is my first question.
The second question is post the close of this deal are there going to be any incentives in the place for the Bank America distribution that originated these asset to keep the Columbia funds in place? What I am getting at is I know the earn-out goes away on net flows post the close of the deal.
So is there risk here that we see some fall-off in retention for that asset pool on the Columbia side from a retail standpoint? I know you addressed the institutional side.
First of all I think one of the things we actually outlined when we announced the deal was a long-term agreement in place with Bank America and the various channels particularly around the U.S.
trust channel.
And the people are in place both us and Bank America wants – we worked hard to maintain including the people the right relationships and the right economic arrangements between us and Bank America.
So we still feel as we felt at the time of the deal pretty good about that as being an ongoing strong relationship.
If anything that’s continuing to pan out as such.
So I can't give you any change to what we originally said.
I actually think that is one to have good things about the deal.
Yes.
And the timeline on the first part of question the negative synergies we couched in terms of P&amp;L impact and certainly dealt with the combining of the funds and fees and also watch those account.
And we have not achieved – we are in a good position relative to the amount we put up.
It certainly has materialized on low levels so far.
I guess just one follow-up Walter.
So is it fair to say though that based on the conversations you have had with the Columbia folks that you think the pig is through the python or is there still more fallout to come? I just want to know cosmetically should we expect to see outflows maybe for the next couple of quarters on the Columbia side? We have been working very closely monitoring it.
Right now as I said we feel that it is moving according to plan and there is nothing we know about that will give us concern at this stage that there is something that is coming our way that was unexpected.
We told you when we did the transaction that we were assuming $20 million to $40 million in net negative EPI impact associated with the negative synergies and it certainly has not materialized that.
So Tom I think one of the things we did say is that first of all this is pre-close right? We are talking about what has occurred at Columbia.
And of course we said that whatever it is pre-close will be in the price adjusted one way or the another in net inflows or outflows.
What Walter is talking about with you is the net negative potential expense savings as well as the synergies on the revenue side which we factored in post-close.
So that if assets were to leave us we had estimated a number for that.
So as an example we lost $600 million in the first quarter from RiverSource that is part of what we estimated for RiverSource as we went forward.
For Columbia the amounts that we have included in this synergy hasn't occurred yet because we didn't close the transaction.
So we do have a plan in case in case that happens as part of our plan in numbers.
But having said that we are planning that there may be some further dislocation that occurs and we have factored that into our analysis up front.
Now maybe that will not occur and we are hoping it doesn't or it can occur over the next number of quarters as we had originally planned.
We don't see any reason why it should be greater than what we had planned at this point in time.
So that is as best I can tell you at this point.
That is clear thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
Great.
First of all we appreciate you taking the time this morning.
Laura will be available for any further question that is you may have.
Let me just close by saying as we continue to look at what we are doing and how we are doing it and continue to monitor the environment we are feeling that we are making good progress here.
There is a lot of work to continue to do and we will continue to do that work.
We will continue to be diligent around insuring that we can continue to drive growth here and improve profitability and return to shareholders which we will be diligently working on.
But I would say we are making progress we do feel good about where the company is positioned what we have in place how we are executing against that.
And so we will continue to report to you as things unfold.
But we think we had a good first quarter and a good start to the year and we are seeing good things coming about.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
My name is Sandra and I will be your operator for today’s call.
(Operator Instructions) Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Miss Alicia Charity.
Miss Charity you may begin.
Thank you.
And welcome to the Ameriprise Financial Second Quarter Earnings Call.
With me on the call today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we’ll be glad to take your questions.
Some of the statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management’s expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today’s date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today’s earnings release our 2010 annual report to shareholders and our 2010 10-K report.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements.
In addition during the call you will hear reference to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the underlying performance of the company’s operations.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today’s materials available on our Web site.
And with that I’d like to turn the call over to Jim.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining us for our second quarter earnings discussion.
I’ll start by giving you my high-level view of the business.
Walter will discuss our financial results in more detail and then we’ll take your questions.
Let’s begin.
Overall this was another very good quarter for Ameriprise Financial.
In our Advisory and Asset Management businesses we build on the momentum we’ve been generating over the past several quarters and delivered strong growth and profitability.
In fact for the first half of this year Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management contributed about half of our operating segment earnings demonstrating our ongoing shift to earnings from our higher-returning businesses.
At the same time our Annuity business delivered good earnings and our insurance fundamentals remain solid despite higher claims especially in auto and home.
The good performance across our franchise drove our operating return on equity to 14.5% which is an all-time high and continues to move us closer to our 2012 objective of 15% which we outlined in 2009.
Our strong foundation presents opportunities and gives us flexibility.
We are maintaining a large excess capital position we are investing to accelerate business growth and we’re returning significant capital to shareholders.
During the quarter we returned over $400 million through buyback and dividends.
And so far this year we returned well over 100% of our earnings to shareholders.
Now I’d like to provide some commentary on our performance in each business.
First in Advice &amp; Wealth Management we delivered strength in all of our key business metrics as well as compelling profitability.
I’d like to take a step back here and reflect on the upward trajectory we put our Advice business on over the past two years.
Since we started emerging from the financial crisis in the second quarter of 2009 operating earnings in this segment have increased by a factor of five and operating margins have increased dramatically.
At the same time quarterly revenue per advisor has grown from $65 000 to a record $99 000.
And remember we’re generating strong earnings even in a continuing environment of very low interest rates.
While the market improvements of the past two years have certainly helped I want you to understand the significant changes we’ve made to drive up the profitability of the Advisor business.
Years ago the Advisor business was regarded primarily as a distribution platform and not a profit center.
We brought in a large number of novice advisors and trained them from scratch with a field leadership and infrastructure to support them.
As a result the employee channel was a significant expense.
Today we’ve transformed the business both from an economic and operating perspective.
Our 2008 acquisition of H&amp;R Block financial advisors gave us a big boost in our efforts to re-engineer the employee platform.
Since then we’ve put in place a much more efficient leadership model lower producing advisors have left the firm and we instill the sharper focus on productivity.
In addition of the more than 1 000 experienced advisors we recruited over the past few years the majority of them have joined the employee channel.
As a result of all these improvements our employee advisor productivity is at an all-time high and our retention rate for this group has increased by 16 percentage points in just two years.
The franchise channel has always been highly productive with long-tenured advisors and very strong retention.
Those trends have continued throughout our time as a public company but we haven’t rested on our laurels.
We continue to enhance the platform and its leadership to ensure franchise advisors remain motivated and satisfied.
We made very significant investments in our advisors and we’re continuing to do so.
We’ve consistently supported them with national and local marketing.
We’ve offered new products and enhanced existing options and we’re delivering a number of important technology upgrades including the new brokerage platform that we’re rolling out now.
Overall our advisor force and field leadership have undergone extensive positive change and the transformation has helped us deliver earnings growth and notable improvements in all of our important metrics.
To review record advisor productivity good experienced advisor recruiting excellent advisor retention and increasing client assets including a record level of wrap assets.
Just as important the strong and efficient operating platform I just described gives us significant leverage for continued growth especially as webegin to increase our advisor force.
Now I’ll move on to Asset Management which is also performing well both in the U.S.
and internationally.
We’re generating quarterly pre-tax operating earnings in the neighborhood of $150 million in this segment and we have $467 billion of assets under management in the segment which makes us one of the largest and most profitable asset managers.
In the U.S.
the Columbia integration is near complete with only final technology work left to do.
Columbia’s investment performance remains very strong with 52 four- and five-star funds which is among the most of any fund family.
At Threadneedle investment performance remains exceptional and the firm is creating increased traction in Asia and the Middle East.
Overall our asset flows are improving.
Across the business we recorded net inflows of $450 million in the quarter.
We generated $257 million in U.S.
retail net inflows which included re-invested dividends.
Retail sales and flows have improved across all distribution channels.
Of course June was challenging with the weak and volatile markets leading to a sizeable industry-wide outflows from equity funds.
That trend seems to have stabilized in July.
I feel good about the progress we’re making.
Our fund merges were essentially completed during the second quarter so our wholesalers no longer having to discuss pending merges.
Now they can discuss a very high-performing very diverse fund family.
At the same time we started promoting our investment performance in a new advertising campaign.
And we entered a new and promising asset class during the quarter with the launch of absolute return funds.
In the Domestic Institutional business we reported $256 million in net outflows which is a significant improvement over both a year ago and sequential quarter.
We’re winning important and attractive mandates and our pipeline of unfunded mandates continues to build.
Of course the Institutional business is lumpy so a single redemption can have a significant impact on net flows.
But overall we’re pleased with the trends we’re seeing in this business.
Threadneedle returned to strong retail net inflows of over $2 billion in the quarter with sales remaining strong and redemptions declining substantially.
Flows turned around after one-quarter blip that was caused by the crisis in Japan and the Middle East.
The Institutional business at Threadneedle also generated good net inflows apart from the continuing and expected runoff of low-margin Zurich assets.
Threadneedle won several nice mandates around the world including its first ever Institutional win in Asia.
Now I’ll move on to Annuities and Insurance.
We generated another good quarter in the Annuities business.
The decision to focus our efforts on the Ameriprise channel where the risk and profitability are more attractive and to exit outside distribution of variable annuities is working well.
While total flows are impacted by the run-off in outside variable annuities we drove $400 million in net inflows in the Ameriprise channel during the quarter.
The overall economics in the business including its risks characteristics are in very good shape.
Fixed annuity sales remain slow due to the interest rate environment.
Both annuity books variable and fixed continue to generate strong returns.
Like many other insurers our Protection segment was impacted by increased claims from the storms that hit the Midwest and the South this spring.
Still our second quarter catastrophic claims were manageable just $15 million and the claims in the auto business are improving nicely.
Walter will provide more detail on this.
In the Life &amp; Health Insurance businesses sales are still challenging across the industry but we’re seeing some improvement.
Overall our Life &amp; Health Insurance business continues to provide reliable earnings and solid returns.
To summarize Ameriprise is continuing to perform at a high level.
We have transformed the Advisor business into a highly-profitable efficient contributor to our earnings.
Our large and global Asset Manager is generating strong profits and performance and our Insurance and Annuity businesses continue to deliver good returns.
At the same time we continue to manage our resources prudently.
Our balance sheet and capital are extremely strong and returning significant capital to shareholders.
Overall I feel very good about both this quarter and the trajectory of the company.
The business is generating record revenues and very strong earnings and our returns have improved substantially as we’ve grown and shifted the mix of earnings through our higher-return businesses.
In fact our returns compare favorably by segment and overall against the industry.
I believe we have the right strategy and the right market positions and the right foundation to continue to drive growth and higher returns in the years ahead.
Now I’ll turn it over to Walter.
Thank you Jim.
We generated strong earnings across all measures with operating EPS up $0.27.
As Jim covered core business trends are strong and as a result we are delivering double-digit revenue growth.
Earnings growth was very good across our businesses with the exception of Protection.
I was pleased overall with the earnings in the quarter.
There were a few non-reoccurring items both positive and negative which largely offset.
Importantly our low capital-intense businesses Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management continue to drive our growth and earnings mix shift.
That shift combined with prudent capital management resulted in an operating ROE of 14.5% this quarter.
Now let’s look more deeply at the drivers for Ameriprise and each segment.
We’re generating strong 14% revenue growth and driving a higher contribution from our less capital-demanding fee-based businesses where revenues increased 12% and 34% respectfully.
We are seeing slow revenue growth in Annuities and Protection.
In those businesses we maintained our price discipline and focused on the Ameriprise channel where the economics and risk are more balanced.
Turning to Slide 5 we are seeing similar growth from an earnings perspective.
In the second quarter we generated strong 30% growth in the pre-tax operating earnings and more than half of that was from low capital-intense businesses.
This is great progress towards our goal of approximately 60% over time.
As we shift the business mix we are generating significant excess capital.
In fact about 90% of our operating earnings are available for capital redeployment even though we are growing the company at a strong rate.
Our excess capital has grown to over $2 billion even after buying back 761 million of shares so far this year.
This change is the result of a number of factors including the rate of shift in the business mix to low capital-intense lines as well as the exit from selling variable annuities in the third-party channel.
On the next slide you’ll see a bit more detail on our capital position.
We continue to prudently manage our financial foundation which has enabled us to return capital to shareholders.
During the quarter we repurchased 6.1 million shares for $366 million.
We recently announced an additional $2 billion repurchase authorization bringing our total to $2.2 billion at the end of the quarter.
At our Life companies our risk-based capital ratio is over 585% well in excess of the required level even after paying a $400 million dividend to the holding company in the second quarter.
We intend to bring that ratio down by year-end to below 500% which is still in excess of the required amount.
The quality of our balance sheet is strong with good liquidity $1.3 billion of free cash and a low debt-to-capital level.
We ended the quarter with $1.7 billion of unrealized gains and our variable annuity hedging program continues to be quite effective.
Now let’s look at the performance of our business segments in more detail.
In Advice &amp; Wealth Management earnings were up 26%.
Margins remained strong at 11.3% up from 10.1% last year.
As Jim described we are improving Ameriprise advisor productivity and growing assets under management.
Client wrap assets were approximately $106 billion with net inflows of $2.3 billion for the quarter.
Interest rates remain a headwind in this segment with over $13 billion of brokerage cash earning low spreads of about 44 basis points.
Expenses continue to be well-managed.
As we invest in the Advisor business we are also realizing the benefits of our re-engineering in the prior periods.
Turning to Asset Management.
Asset Management had strong 40% operating growth in the second quarter.
We had a full three months of Columbia results this quarter compared to last year’s quarter which only reflected two months as the acquisition closed to May.
Normalizing for the extra months of Columbia’s results earnings would have been up 25%.
As Jim detailed we had $450 million of net inflows and net revenue increase of 34%.
The 19.4 operating margin includes the impact of reporting transfer agent fees on a gross basis versus net and the impact of Portfolio Navigator program modification.
As we discussed in the past we show transfer agent revenues on a gross basis.
We have also modified our Portfolio Navigator program which also grosses up revenues in this segment.
We did not anticipate these changes when we originally provided the 25% margin target for 2012.
These non-economic changes reduce our margin by approximately 200 basis points and therefore a more appropriate target operating margin would be 23%.
The adjusted net operating margin which nets out the impact of these gross-ups increased from 33.8% to 34.9%.
The Columbia integration is progressing well with most of the fund merges complete and net expense synergies on track for our target of $130 million for 2011.
We’re expecting net synergies in 2012 of approximately $145 million.
Now turning to Annuities.
Operating pre-tax income increased 46% compared to last year.
As a reminder last year’s earnings were impacted by about $17 million of unfavorable items including mean reversion DAC model updates and the Portfolio Navigating modifications.
On an adjusted basis earnings increased 23%.
The current level of earnings in the Annuities segment represents a good quality run rate for 2011.
Of course earnings will vary based upon DAC unlockings and mean reversions.
Since there was little impact from these factors this quarter we wanted to ground you with a run rate.
The Ameriprise channel continued to generate strong sales of our new variable annuity product RAVA 5.
Net inflows in this channel were about $400 million.
Overall growth of the variable annuity business will be lower given our decision to exit outside distribution but profitability remains strong reflecting the differentiated performance of business sold through our advisor network.
The fixed annuities book continues to experience net outflows reflecting low client demand in the current interest rate environment.
Returns for fixed annuities remained strong with an operating ROE of 20.3% and a 250-basis-point spread this quarter.
Let’s move on to Protection.
Operating pre-tax income was down 35% compared to last year.
Auto &amp; Home continues to grow with revenues up 5% over last year.
Results in the quarter were down $20 million and were impacted by severe storms in April and May.
Our catastrophic losses were $15 million which is reasonably good given the severity of the storms and compares well to the industry.
Our 91% reported loss ratio reflects these higher losses as well as the continuing higher reserve for auto policies.
We have seen improving trends and will closely monitor claims.
In the Life &amp; Health businesses earnings declined $26 million on an operating basis.
Earnings in each quarter had several unusual items.
So on a normalized basis earnings were essentially flat year-over-year.
As we noted last year we had about $9 million of favorable items including mean reversion DAC model updates and the Portfolio Navigator modifications as well as unusually-low claims.
This quarter claims were $7 million higher and in line with expectations.
We also put up a $7 million higher reserve on a year-over-year basis for universal life guarantees which we started in the third quarter of 2010 and will be ongoing.
Looking ahead this level of Life &amp; Health earnings represents a reasonable quarterly run rate for 2011.
To wrap we continue to drive a steady increase in operating ROE reaching 14.5% this quarter.
We generated strong earnings as a result of solid underlying business performance and the investments we have made to drive growth.
Our mix continues to shift to lower capital businesses which is providing a strong source of excess capital.
We are prudent capital managers and we’ll continue to return capital to shareholders.
Together this is driving up return on equity toward our target of 15% in 2012 and we see further opportunity to increase ROE beyond that.
Now we’ll take your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) The first question is from Andrew Kligerman from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Just a couple quick updates.
First just the Securities America.
Could you give us a quick update on whether that’s close to closing? Or could we be waiting a while on that? Hi Andrew.
Jim here.
The Securities America process for the sale is actually proceeding well and so we’re continuing to move that along.
And in fact yesterday the court approved our class-action settlement on the Med Cap issues and so that’s also something that was good to get completed.
So we’re making good progress and we’ll announce something in the near future based on continuing to move forward with the deal.
Great.
Thanks.
I thought I heard Walter say he wants to get the RBC ratio down to 500% which would be a pretty big move given that you’re kind of spending down the equivalent – you’re moving down earnings a fair amount each quarter with these buybacks.
Do you expect to do it all with the buy back? Or is there some M&amp;A plans down the road? I’ll let Walter speak first to the dividends that we’re looking at for the Life company.
And then I can come back on your last part of the question.
Yes Andrew.
It’s Walter.
We are anticipating that we will bring that ratio down to under 500.
That’s correct.
You heard it.
And the amount is probably going to be in the area around $850 million as we work through it.
We just have to get the approval from the state but we don’t see any problem.
From a capital overall capital position Andrew as you know we’re continuing to buy back.
And we’ve got a new buyback authorization approved and we’re continuing to execute there.
But we also have as you know some flexibility if a good or right opportunity that would fit in that we can get a good return or strategic capability from.
But having said that we’re going to continue to maintain some good flexibility but also return to shareholders.
We think our stock price is pretty low right now.
So M&amp;A is is kind of quiet right now then? You don’t really see much? There are opportunities that are coming in about in the marketplace so we’re going to continue to look and explore.
But those things are – they come along now and then so you have to be ready and we have the ready capability if we need to.
Okay.
And then just two last quick ones.
Are the synergies on Asset Management over with? No more of that effect on net closing retail with Columbia? Well as we announced first of all one of the big ones was really the mergers that occurred in the second quarter.
So we haven’t seen any major – any disruptions actually from that so we’ll see as it settles in if there’s any flow adjustments.
From that perspective it gives us an actual opportunity now to really hit the ground a little harder and consistently and that’s why we even stepped up our new advertising in the marketplace.
I hope you saw the ads.
We think they’re pretty good and we really have something to talk about.
So from that perspective we think a large part of those – the synergies there’s a few that will come about that we know about institutionally et cetera.
But other than that I think that the large part of the front end of what we needed to do in the business is done and integrated.
And so right now we want to get really back to work and make sure that we can gain back our sales momentum and book some more business.
So if I’m understanding what you’re saying Jim then any net – any outflows would be very modest going forward with respect to the synergies? Yeah.
I mean for what we might have caused from a disruption.
But as I said there are some larger entity parent legal entity type of business that we know will come up and do from these arrangements when we did the deal but again those things we know that we’re gaining new business in the Institutional channel with higher fees and mandates as we did in the second quarter.
And so we’re looking over the next number of quarters for that to be offset and start to grow again.
Got it.
Like Bank of America or something.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Bye.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Hey.
Good morning everybody.
A couple of quick ones for you.
Walter I think you mentioned in your opening remarks that one-time items in the quarter largely offset but I guess I was wondering if we should really be characterizing all of the items that you guys mentioned this quarter as non-recurring.
This is the second quarter of higher Threadneedle comp expense.
It’s the fourth quarter of higher UL reserving.
It’s the second or third quarter of higher auto liability reserving.
I’m just wondering if you can help us understand where to think about all of those going from here.
Hey sure.
John as it relates to Threadneedle the Threadneedle pattern is different than we’ve experienced because basically we’ve reconfigured the plan working with the management at Threadneedle to allow it to not be mark-to-market and you’ll see that impact in 2012.
But there were certain amortization accelerations that are taking place and also a higher amount was granted on the conversion of the older.
So you’ll see that pattern continuing possibly for the next quarter and then it’ll go back.
And candidly it’s not really resulted in appreciably-higher economic outlook; it’s just changed the characterization of it.
On the bodily injury the Auto &amp; Home yes it’s continued.
And there we are seeing encouraging signs both in severity and in frequency and we’re monitoring that situation.
We are however still booking at the high loss rate reserving at the level that was from 2010.
If this trend continues we will obviously revisit that.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Okay.
On the SOP that is something – actually that is continuing and we indicated that from that standpoint; it would continue.
And the other factor of course was the cat losses which took place which was way above what we thought but again certainly versus industry stands quite good.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Okay.
So just a final one – so just a follow-up on the UL reserving one I mean we’re at the point where we’ve lapped that higher level of reserving correct? So from here it’s just sort of a run rate.
That’s right.
It started in the third quarter (inaudible).
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Okay.
Then just a quick question.
I’m curious on the Annuities segment.
It looks like your allocated equity to the VA business increased about 10% maybe 11% quarter-over-quarter but VA account balances increased less than 1% quarter-over-quarter.
I mean why the big disconnect there? Is that just a matter of retaining earnings and the timing of dividends? No it’s more Med we’re adjust on the risk profile on the living benefits and that was just the way the calculations ran when we did them this quarter.
That was strictly based upon that.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then the last one for you is just looking out to 2012 I realize you guys will have an Investor Day in a few months but just an initial view.
If other than upside from the equity markets if we were to think about upside relative to your 15% ROE objective where should we be focusing? Well overall as you said we’re going to come forth in a few months and talk to you about how we’re going to move our strategy forward now that we’re going to be in 2012 shortly.
And from that as Walter mentioned in his opening comments we do see the ability to grow our returns above 15% and we’ll be putting in place a plan that will show how we’ll look to do that.
But we see greater opportunity as we would say in the Advice &amp; Wealth Management business.
We think we have a good strong capability overall in our Asset Management.
Our returns as we de-risk some of our variable annuity business for the outside distribution will start to reflect some of those opportunities as well as we move forward.
And the business will be more I think refined.
So again as you’ve seen in the quarter we’re getting good growth – good net flows in the Ameriprise channel but we’re in outflows.
But as we reconfigure that business it’s not going to be growing as quickly because we’re not going through third-party channels but it will be growing more profitably.
And so there are things such as that as we continue to shift the companies mix.
Hopefully there we’ll also see some changes.
Interest over time will have to start to percolate if we have a growing economy and that will give us a lot of benefits.
So we’re going to come back to you.
But we have an opportunity here to build the business and clearly based on what we’ve been able to accomplish and execute so far we wanted to truly show you that we can get and we wanted to deliver to get to the 15% hurdle.
As you can see this quarter we’ve made some really good progress in executing against our plan.
And so the next plan I put together is going to take us into another level.
Okay? Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Okay.
And if I could one more quick one.
You guys are obviously gigantic money managers both on the general account side and on the pure asset management side.
Just wondering Jim yours or Ted’s perspective on what does it mean to Ameriprise if our folks in Washington don’t get it together and the U.S.
is downgraded? Well I think first of all we’re in uncharted territory as a country.
When you have a risk-free rate of return that everyone benchmarks off of and we have some of the lowest rates here in the United States for government debt as well as what that triggers off of around the world I think we’re going to see some change particularly if we went into default.
Now hopefully what we’re talking about now which is not reasonable even from those standards as I mentioned is a downgrade.
So I think if I apply that to Ameriprise clearly we have good liquidity situations as we look at the capital markets with debt et cetera we’re in a good situation.
That’s nothing that we have to fund on a short-term basis.
We have good flexibility in our portfolios where necessary if various clients are needing liquidity or get concerned.
But our clients actually handled the financial crisis which was much more we think was much more significant than that regard well and we maintained strong asset flows and maintained stability.
So we’re not expecting anything along those lines.
But you know what? We’ve made sure that some of our portfolios have moved a little to the shorter-term and the investment philosophies that Ted and his team they’ve taken a conservative posture in the quality of assets that they’ve been investing in.
We feel good about the owned assets that we have.
So we’re going to be like everyone else really monitoring the situation and adjusting when necessary.
But we don’t see anything significant particularly as we see this unfolding right now.
Longer-term I think is a larger issue for the country.
And that will depend on whether Congress and the President come together with something that’s meaningful rather than just lifting the ceiling.
But I think that’s going to affect all of us not just financial companies but the overall economy.
And you know that from your own analysis and working with the industry.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> I appreciate your views.
Thanks very much Jim.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jay Gelb from Barclays Capital.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
I was hoping you could talk about the sustainability of the net inflows in the Asset Management business.
There was some benefits there from the reinvested dividends and you’d mentioned that the Threadneedle sales can be lumpy.
So just wanted to get your sense on that going forward.
Okay.
Well one of the things – let me start a little with Threadneedle.
I know in the first quarter we had to really comment on how that moved to a bit of outflows.
There was some increased redemptions that we saw out of the European area as well as holding on mandates for investment based on what was happening in Japan and the Middle East.
And so we had mentioned that we saw stability coming and we saw improvement as we moved out of the April timeframe.
And so that’s what we’re seeing now.
And so Threadneedle continues I think to gather good mandates.
We’ve got our first mandate in Asia this quarter.
We’re ramping up our activities there.
We think there’s good opportunity.
Same thing with flows coming in now from the Middle East again.
So the activity has increased.
Now third quarter’s always a little slower as you would know and but having said that we didn’t see the volatility that we saw and Europe is settling a little more with what happened in Greece.
So hopefully that will be a bit better as well as we move forward.
Retail flows picked up strongly and so you can never predict that because you’re working through intermediaries et cetera of what that is but that looked nicely as a turnaround from the first quarter.
With Columbia as we said we were actually picking up sales nicely and sales were growing in June; became a bit more of a volatile period for equities and I think you saw that across the industry.
July looks like that stabilized again and improved.
But you know listen we have some things going on right now in the economy and with the country and so I can’t predict what the flows will be as we look over the next quarter or so.
But I feel good about the progress we’ve made with the fund families.
We’re now putting the advertising the wholesalers are to work with one set of group of funds.
Their clients don’t have to deal with the proxies and the mergers and et cetera.
And we’ve got to be hard at work here.
So this is going to take some time to gain the ground that we want.
So again I can’t predict that we’re going to be in inflows and retail in the short-term but I’m hoping that we’re going to show continued improvement quarter-to-quarter.
Institutional I do feel good about the pipeline there.
We know that we’re going to lose some mandates from what we had previously.
But we know that going in and so we’re really working on mandates that have good fees mandates that we have strong investment performance.
We have a much bigger and better lineup than we ever had with the combination of the two.
We have a stronger Institutional sales team on the ground now gaining traction.
We’re off held – we’re out of the hold period on the consultants across the board so we’re seeing things pick up but those things continue to take time to build and get in front of people.
But so far the tractions been pretty good and I think you saw that in the second quarter building from the first quarter.
So I can’t sit here and tell you I can predict the flows; I can just tell you that I think what we have in place is great great capability terrific performance a motivated team and we’ll deal with the economy and the markets as they unfolded.
But again I think we are someone that could be successful in the marketplace.
Inc.</strong> Okay thank you.
And then next issue on the property casualty personalized insurance business can you give us a sense of strategically why it make sense for Ameriprise to be in that business.
It appears to be subscale and has added some volatility in recent quarters.
Okay.
Well I think you have to look at the components of – so this is a direct affinity-type model and asset level.
It is not subscale.
And in fact it’s come over the last few years into a scaled situation.
It’s actually one of the better and larger providers in that light and it’s a very attractive space.
And if you look at many of the large companies they’re starting to figure out whether they need to be there looking at Progressive and others.
We were just rated in the top five and that’s ahead of all the majors in Auto &amp; Home in client satisfaction which is pretty significant and there’s only a few names there that are more smaller and probably less visible to the broader public there.
We actually have a very good model a good underwriting model.
So even if you look at the major storms that hit the Midwest and the South and the billions that it cost the industry we had $15 million in cat losses so that’s again quite manageable through a very volatile period.
In the Auto area just so you know in certain areas you do get spikes in bodily injury or PIP et cetera.
It’s across the industry.
We’ve actually now put in rate increases in those areas and we’ve adjusted where we underwrite even a bit more.
But Walter said the claims have come down.
That was sort of a quarter quarter-plus blip so we don’t know whether that’s – it didn’t look like or realize to be at this point based on the next two quarters.
So I wouldn’t say that one blip should be a big black mark because we had good earnings from this business over multiple periods.
We scaled it up.
We’re getting good returns on capital there.
We got good underwriting.
We save our clients as they take these policies on average $500 a year based on and we have very high satisfaction.
And so we think it is a complement.
It’s not necessarily an integrated part of the court to point you reference.
So strategically we do have flexibility as we think about it but we think it’s a nice complement.
It gives us some diversification and we think it does provide a good consumer benefit that we can gain relationships over time with.
But as of course we’ll always evaluate it if things change but outside of this sort of blip period we got a good business here and I think one that as we continue to invest and scale up will be worth a lot – and it worth a lot of money today.
Inc.</strong> Thank you for the answers.
Thank you.
The next question is from Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
So Walter wanted to kind of go over some of the margin numbers for these one more time.
So I think last quarter in Asset Management you guys already had sort of the transfer agency arrangement in place as gross versus net as well as the Portfolio Navigator change.
Yet I think last quarter you kind of stuck to the 25% operating margin goal for 2012.
So what’s changed sequentially? I don’t think anything has changed.
I think we just are making you aware of the impact factor of those two items.
And we’re just trying to – just recalibrate from that standpoint.
Nothing has changed.
It’s just as these are big gross-ups and they have an impact on margin.
That’s all we’re letting you know.
One thing I’d just add to that.
Walter’s 100% right.
If you look at the gross-ups it’s in revenue and the same amount goes into expense.
There’s no PTI.
But when you look at the margin particularly off the business as it including grew from even last year it actually squeezes the margin more because of that as an in and out.
Columbia used to have that as a net.
And finally as we looked across the industry again we adjusted it to be industry standard.
But when we actually came out with a GAAP margin we didn’t have that factored in.
We didn’t realize the significance of it.
And the same thing as we adjusted the EPN.
Now having said that as I mentioned to you and Walter that’s why we’re starting to look at adjusted margin as the key number.
And when we look at the adjusted margin that comes out.
So as you said like this quarter we’re at 34.9.
We have not adjusted the goal or anything that we want to get that to close to 40% even though the GAAP margin.
But we noticed that many of you are tracking the GAAP margin against the 25.
So we wanted to highlight that as the business grows we would actually get more squeeze based on that gross-up of just revenue and expense.
And it’s just a net wash to zero margin.
But on the adjusted we haven’t changed anything because that gets washed out and so we’re still striving to get to that 40% mark rather than where we are today at the 35%.
Does that help you? Yeah.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks.
And then on Threadneedle so I guess you guys eliminated the mark-to-market impact in comp? And starting 2012 it’s going to be more of a fixed number? Is that higher or lower from the run rate this year? No.
What’s going to happen it’s going to take on the characterization like options or anything of that nature.
It’s not going to be in a mark-to-market category.
So it would be substantially muted.
And we’ll still have the amortization expense but that has always been in there.
But you’re not going to have that lumpiness as you saw back in 2010 2011.
So that’s what we did.
We just redesigned the program to allow us not to go to mark-to-market.
Got it.
And maybe shifting gears a little bit net interest income it sounds like so obviously short-term rates is a big drag for you guys and a lot of other folks.
If you look sequentially some of the bigger drags I guess came from AWM as well as Annuities business.
If you think about the risk I think going forward as long as the short-term rates don’t go up and the shape of the U-curve doesn’t change how low do you think this could go? What’s the risk over the next year-plus? Well on the short-term side on the sweep accounts I believe we’re at a reasonable level where it’ll stay at that.
And the long race is where the problem is on our asset earning rate.
Obviously as we replace and redemptions take place and maturities take place we’re investing at lower AURs.
So that will continue and will build.
And again if the U-curve does not change.
So it’ll continue.
As we’ve indicated I think previously we will have an impact that’s manageable but we will have an impact.
And you’re seeing some of that in this quarter.
Have you guys ever quantified it? Alex we didn’t hear that.
Have you guys ever quantified the impact so let’s say again like knowing what you know about reinvestment and the rates going out let’s say they stay the same what would be the impact? I think – actually I don’t think we’ve quantified it but as again it depends on how long it goes and what level.
But you would see and I think we’ve talked about it in the $30 million $40 million range.
And we’ll update all of that based on what unfolds here over the next quarter.
So definitely by the analyst meeting but maybe probably by the next time on the third quarter.
Understood.
And then last one for me – You know that’s an annual number I was giving you – I just wanted to – okay.
That was an annual number Walter said and that was done a while ago.
Got it thanks.
And then just a last one from me on capital management.
Jim so you obviously think the stock is pretty attractive here.
How do you think about the pace of deployment in the new $2 billion buyback? Same run rate kind of $300 million to $400 million a quarter? Or do you think there’s an opportunity for you guys to step up a little more? Well what I would say is you know as you saw we started when we started the program and we started where we saw an opportunity.
And then we slowed that down during the latter part of last year and then we accelerate it again based on what we saw happening with the value of the company as well as the flexibility we have.
So I’m not going to pigeon hole it to a quarterly number.
But what I would just say is the stock is attractive.
We have capital.
We also will make sure that we look out for good opportunities.
But we have the flexibility to do what we think is appropriate to return to shareholders.
So let me just leave it at that not to be tied to anything that won’t give me the flexibility to operate.
Understood.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Suneet Kamath from Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Thanks and good morning.
A couple of questions.
First I just wanted to follow up on Alex’s question about the Asset Management margin.
Clearly the reason that a lot of us model to GAAP results is because that’s the way that you report it and that’s also the target that you’ve established.
So I’d just like to be clear is the message that we’re getting today that because of these I guess changes that the new 2012 Asset Management pre-tax margin target on a GAAP basis is 23%? Or are you saying that these changes are causing a 200-basis-point drag but you still think you can hit the 25%? Thanks.
So I’ll start Walter wants to complement.
Based on this extent of the gross-up that we’re doing with the TA which is pretty significant and I don’t think we realize that impact against the margin target when they made this adjustment to tell you.
It is a 200-basis-points change against that goal from 25% to 23%.
So if you look at it now if you pull that out and we’re doing it the way when we set up the goal even last year you would find that the 19.4 number would go up adjusted just by pulling out the gross revenue and the expense based on making that change.
So the goal in itself hasn’t changed.
The accounting based upon what we made the change has caused the GAAP margin to get compressed.
But the range of improvement from when we started if you pull out that accounting change would still get you to 25%.
So we can look at it one of two ways.
We can report to you every quarter what that gross-up is and adjust for it so that we can say 19.4 becomes 20 some 21-plus percent against the 25 or we can say to you that’s the way we’re going to report it and the 25 is really 23.
Now over time what I would hope we would do is talk about the adjusted margin number and I would hope to say to you that 35% I want to get to 40%.
But you can see the difference even there on a grosser net is due to that in and out.
So I would say Suneet if it was helpful we would say to you if you want to track it based on reported that the 25% is 23%.
But again I have no problem or Walter has no problem if you want to stick to the 25% that we try to identify what that gross-up is every quarter and report it to you.
So it’s one of two ways but – The only thing I can really at this end point is when we did set that up and we disclosed it all those programs were not in – understood certainly EPN was not there.
So when we evaluate it and while we are tracking and certainly we are beginning to see the drag of that.
And as Jim said we’re going to certainly try and go from the 34.9% up to 40% and certainly increase our margins but if the EPN program is quite a large program and the transfer agency we announced we made the alignment last quarter.
But the EPN is the larger of the issue and that is large.
And as it’s large it certainly is very beneficial for the company but it does have an impact on the margins.
So we’re just giving that information.
I just want to be clear for someone.
If it’s not clear maybe we have to do a little spreadsheet on it.
We have not changed the goal from when we started against the base business as it was done when we acquired Columbia.
EPN came in last year and when we actually acquired Columbia we realized that their accounting was not including it on a gross basis the way it is that we want to adjust it like we used to do it.
So that’s really what occurred after we set the target.
Remember we set the target before we ever closed on Columbia.
And so we’re just trying to be clear with you but the goal and the improvement over what was the core of the business has not changed.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
I guess I’d vote for more detail just until we get to maybe the Investor Day this year and then you just give us the adjusted margin target so we can all kind of talk about what I think you guys are referring to as the more important measures.
That would be kind of my advice.
Well we’ll be happy to do that.
We understand that this is something we’re introducing.
So we’ll wait for the financial community we’ll show you what everything looks like there but we’ll continue to report with the adjustments that we’ll provide you as commentary.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Excellent.
And then I guess on the capital side of the picture I think the prepared comments – in your prepared comments Walter you talked about 90% of your I think operating earnings being sort of re-deployable capital.
I guess should we view that as sustainable? Presumably what that would imply is that all of your Asset Management and Advice &amp; Wealth earnings are re-deployable and a pretty good chunk of your other business earnings I think maybe upwards around 75% for the Protection Annuity business is re-deployable.
I mean is that really sustainable? Or should we expect that 90% to come down because you think at some point you’ll start to reinvigorate some of the sales growth? All right okay.
Let me answer the question this way.
I do believe it is sustainable and what drives it is the shift that we are seeing as we continue to generate substantial earnings growth in our AWM and our Asset Management business.
We also are gaining the benefit the markets being where they are are certainly lowering the requirement for the Annuities business.
And so from that standpoint if the current trend line stay was the market staying in these ranges I believe that is sustainable with the shifts we’ve seen in our mix.
And that’s why we report it that way because we used to talk you about as new business is actually a lot of activity going on the total business which creates that 90/10 situation.
So I do believe that it is sustainable in the current external environment.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
My last question for Jim is so given the pieces that we’re talking about here significant amount of excess capital generation every quarter a significant amount of excess capital on the balance sheet even with the capital re-deployment that you’ve done and then a stock price that’s obviously a lot lower than where it has been earlier.
Would you consider doing something like an accelerated buyback on the assumption that you still have debt capacity if you came across an acquisition opportunity given where your debt-to-capital ratio is? Thanks.
Excellent question.
We as we said we’re continuing to analyze our situation.
I mean the stock has pulled back a lot in the period.
We’re looking at the market environment looking at opportunities and these are the things that we have cross-discussed with our Board to make sure that we’re taking everything into account for the best overall return over time to the shareholders.
So Suneet your hypothesis your evaluation is right on.
Those are the things we think about and those are the things that we’ll continue to have discussion on.
So I’d like to probably leave it at that at this point in time knowing that I’ve received good input from people such as yourself.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead Thanks very much good morning.
I have just one question.
I think earlier Jay was mentioning that and I noticed this too that the Columbia close on the retail side were helped in a very big way by this reinvestment of dividends a level of reinvestment that was much higher than what we saw I think in most of the other quarters certainly than in the year-ago quarter.
Now I understand that this is something to do with again VPN VP – variable annuity product as well as with the timing of dividends.
Two questions.
What is really going on here? And can we suspect – can we anticipate that this will be sustainable? Thank you.
Well Eric I’ll start then Walter.
I think on the dividend side it is sustainable based on many of our clients have reinvestment plans appropriate particularly as we look at the VIP funds in the Annuity area et cetera.
And you know we have a very good business there.
So that’s a real positive versus the industry that there is a higher level on those distributions that come out.
And so that’s one thing.
As far as the number by quarter I’ll ask Walter because he can probably answer that a little better from what we’re tracking.
Yeah the majority of that is the variable annuities and it is concentrated more in the second quarter.
And that is pretty much an automatic from that standpoint so certainly is sustainable.
And as you’re aware we actually do earn money on this so it – but it is something that we anticipate.
The other – the ones coming from a non-VPO spread but again the concentration is in the second quarter and a little bit in the fourth quarter.
So Walt are you saying in other words if I could just check my understanding of the response are you saying that we will see it in the future but it is let’s call it seasonal meanings tied to the quarters two and four? Yes.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The last question is from Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just a few Asset Management questions.
The – so Walter I just want to make sure I got the margin numbers straight in terms of the 23% target.
So the corresponding number this quarter would have been the 19.4% margin which then if we normalize the Threadneedle unusually-high expenses would have been 20.4%? So you’re expecting 20.4% this quarter to get to 23% by the end – is it by the end of 2012 or is that the average of2012? I just want to make sure I have that math correct? All right.
So obviously on the math the 19.4% is the start point.
And then we talked about the 200 basis points that is relating to the gross-up which if that wasn’t there would have been 200 basis points higher.
The Threadneedle I haven’t actually done the calculation on the seven I’ll be candid.
But it looks approximately right from that standpoint.
As I indicated we’ll get a little bit of carryover into the third quarter on the Threadneedle again.
And then it will dissipate and go into a normal pattern.
So if the math is right on the seven yeah I guess you can take it and add it to that point.
And when would you expect to get the 23% by? Just from a timing standpoint? The 23% was we were going to achieve that in – if we’re using 23% now versus 25% we said we would achieve that in 2012 timeframe.
Would that be the average in 2012? It’ll be the annual return in 2012 on the PTI margin.
Okay.
And just to clarify the change that we’re seeing here that’s resulting in higher revenues but not lower profitability? So the profits are the same as you thought but the reported GAAP revenues are higher? Is that the main difference in terms of the (inaudible) accounting? That’s exactly – we grossed it up.
That’s right.
We grossed it at revenue; PTIs did not change at all.
Okay.
And then just on the flows.
Jim you had mentioned in July things had gotten a bit worse in June but then you saw it stabilize in July.
By stabilize do you mean things have improved from a net flow standpoint from June into July? Or are they running at the same level? And also just wanted to clarify was that a comment on just the U.S.
or was that broader? Because I’d be curious if you’re seeing any changes in Threadneedle just because of what’s going in in Europe particularly into July.
Thanks.
Great.
So thank you for asking for the clarification.
Yeah I guess it could be misinterpreted as you actually just said it.
When we meant it went back to the way it was prior to June.
So it was improving again and not getting that ratchet effect of what we saw in June.
And that was really talking domestic.
From an international perspective in July we don’t – I don’t have a lot of that information yet.
But it looked like it continued good flows through the June period.
It didn’t look like June had the effect that we had in the U.S.
And so I can’t tell you what July looks like in Europe but I’m not expecting any radical change.
And hopefully based on things settling down in Europe with Greece hopefully that will become a little more stable.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Mr.
Cracchiolo I’ll turn the call back over to you for final remarks.
I want to thank everyone.
I know we had adjusted the time today.
We know that there was a number of other earnings releases coming out so we wanted to give you an opportunity in case that you were double booked.
And we hope that we’ve been clear with the information we’re providing.
We’re trying to give you more.
You can look at what we’ve given you in the supplements so that you can do your analysis.
Alicia is going to be around working with you if you have any other questions or comments.
I will leave you with this thought.
I know it’s always hard quarter-to-quarter and there’s a lot of ins and outs last year.
So for you to crack some of those against this year I can understand some of the questions and some of the differences.
So we’re going to try to get better and be clearer.
Last year there wasn’t a lot of going on with the DAC unlockings and the mean reversions and the market changes.
But we feel like we’re getting to a more normalized period now.
We feel the business is operating quite well.
As I said you can’t market-to-market day-to-day.
There’s always going to be variations in the businesses that we’re in but the trend line if you look over the quarters if you look at what we said we wanted to do and how we’re doing it we are executing.
We are getting good results.
The profitability in these segment whether even at the margins were at et cetera are quite good compared to the industry quite good compared to generating and the type of scale businesses we now have.
And so we feel good and as we’ve said we try to communicate to you that we have good flexibility.
We’re one of the few people buying back stock at this level if you look at our cap level and look at our capital and having the flexibility that we have today though the environment has proved out there.
So we’ll continue to look at the best ways to deploy that the best ways to continue to invest for growth.
We don’t want to stop at where we are.
We feel we are on a good trajectory.
We want to continue that given markets are reasonable and hopefully our government will do their work as we’re all trying to do so that we can get back to a good step.
So thank you and if there’s anything else please let us know and we’ll continue to try to communicate as best we can.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
My name is Sandra and I will be your operator for today’s call.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Alicia Charity.
Ms.
Charity you may begin.
Thank you and welcome to the Ameriprise Financial Third Quarter Earnings Call.
With me on the call today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we’ll be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the underlying performance of the company’s operations.
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today’s materials available on our website.
Some of the statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking statements reflecting management’s expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today’s date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today’s earnings release our 2010 annual report to shareholders or our 2010 10-K report.
We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’d like to turn the call over to Jim.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining us for our third quarter earnings discussion.
I’ll begin with an overview of our performance and then Walter will discuss our financial results in more detail.
Overall we generated another solid quarter despite very challenging market conditions and we continue to demonstrate the strength of our diversified business model.
In our Advisory business earnings were up nicely and our advisors remained highly productive.
In Asset Management our net outflows increased primarily due to the equity market weakness and volatility.
However the business still produced solid earnings.
At the same time our Insurance and Annuity businesses generated solid underlying performance despite significant market impacts the related DAC unlocking and some catastrophic losses in Auto and Home.
Our strong financial foundation continues to serve us well.
We’re maintaining more than $2 billion in excess capital.
We’re continuing our investments for future growth and we’ve accelerated our share repurchases.
During the quarter we bought back nearly 10 million shares returning $447 million to shareholders.
In fact so far this year we returned $1.4 billion or nearly 150% of our operating earnings through buybacks and dividends.
I’d like to briefly discuss the markets and their effect on our business and then I’ll provide some commentary on our underlying performance.
Both the equity markets and the interest rate environment worked against us in the quarter.
As you know the S&amp;P 500 was down 14% and the markets were quite volatile.
The drop in equities affected our DAC muni reversion and the market conditions also drove an industry-wide pull back in equity investing which affected our flows in Asset Management and wrap accounts.
Our overall assets were down as well which reduced our fees.
At the same time long-term rates fell substantially because of the Fed’s Twist action and shorter rates remained near zero.
The interest rate movements impacted our DAC unlocking and had a continuing effect on our spread revenue which Walter will discuss in more detail.
Even with the fairly severe headwinds we’re facing the business generated good results and I feel confident about our ability to navigate the markets.
Our diversified mix of businesses along with our strong capital position and flexibility gives us the ability to manage through this near-term disruption and accelerate our growth when conditions improve.
In fact I believe we’re in a stronger position today than ever before.
To illustrate I’ll talk about each of our businesses and help you understand their performance apart from the market impacts.
First our Advice &amp; Wealth Management segments generated another strong quarter.
In fact despite market conditions and despite the fact that our third quarter is typically slower for us the segment delivered record pre-tax operating earnings of $116 million.
Adviser productivity remained near all-time highs at $97 000 in operating net revenue per advisor for the quarter.
We generated retail inflows however overall wrap inflows of $800 million were down from previous quarters as advisors held more cash in their clients’ accounts.
We’re continuing our long-term investments in our advisor force and they are providing important benefits.
Our experienced advisor recruiting effort delivered its best quarter since the financial crisis in 2009 with 88 recruits during the quarter and 37 in September alone.
Advisors across the industry are seeing the benefits of our model.
As a result our pipeline of potential advisor recruits is quite full.
In addition our new national advertising campaign featuring the Academy Award winner Tommy Lee Jones has been very well-received by both by advisors and consumers.
You can expect to see more of our ads as we move into 2012.
We’re also continuing the rollout of our new brokerage technology platform which combined with all our other advisor support is enabling advisors to be more productive and grow their client bases.
All these improvements have led to a remarkably strong advisor retention and satisfaction rates.
The retention of our most productive franchisee advisors is up to an all-time high of 97% and as we’re completing the transformation of our employee channel our employee advisor retention rose to 91%.
That’s an increase of 13 percentage points in just one year and it’s up 30 percentage points over three years ago.
Now I’ll move onto Asset Management where the fundamentals also remain solid.
In the U.S.
Columbia Management was in net outflows in the quarter which was consistent with a very tough quarter for the industry.
In the retail business our net outflows increased to $1.9 billion however we did make some progress.
We drove net inflows in some categories that are in outflows for the industry as a whole and our market share improved in key distribution channels.
In the domestic institutional business we reported net outflows of $2 billion about half of which came from a single expected Bank of America Balboa insurance redemption.
We have won several good institutional mandates recently and our new mandates are generally producing higher fees than the business we’re losing so the revenue impact of the net outflows is relatively muted.
Given the extremely volatile conditions in Europe the regular move to net outflows of $1.2 billion in retail funds; however institutional flows were quite strong and new wins more than offset continued Zurich outflows resulting in net institutional inflows of $414 million.
We’re particularly pleased that Threadneedle won several new mandates including several in the Middle East which demonstrates the expanding global reach of our Asset Management distribution.
While the flows picture was challenging in the quarter both for us and for the rest of the industry I feel good about our ability to improve flows over time for a number of reasons.
First investment performance remains strong both in the U.S.
and at Threadneedle.
Columbia Management increased its number of four and five-star funds from 52 to 54 which is among the most in the industry and Threadneedle’s performance remains excellent.
Second we’re making good progress reestablishing wholesaling relationships now that our teams have been in place for several quarters.
Third our institutional pipeline is quite strong and continues to grow.
Fourth we’re dealing effectively with former parent-related outflows that we expected as part of the acquisition and we’re generating good revenue offsets for the outflows.
Fifth Threadneedle is making good inroads as it expands its distribution to Asia and the Middle East.
And finally Columbia integration is essentially complete with only final technology work remaining.
Now I’ll move on to Annuities and Insurance.
The Annuity business performed in line with our expectations despite the market driven DAC impacts.
Net inflows continue to be impacted by our decision to exit outside distribution of variable annuities and by the expected lack of fixed annuity sales given low rates.
That said we feel very good about our decision to exit outside the distribution of variable annuities.
It has given us a stronger risk profile while reducing the capital required by the business.
We’ve also been able to focus all of our wholesaling efforts on Ameriprise advisors and sales remain quite strong.
In the quarter variable annuity net inflows in our advisor channel were about $400 million as advisors and clients continue to find our relatively new annuity product attractive.
In the Insurance business Life &amp; Health sales remain challenging.
Clients continue to be reluctant to commit cash to long-term investments especially in products like variable universal life which has been one of one of our strongest products but we are seeing some pickup in part because of the introduction of our new equity indexed universal life product.
We also benefited from good claims experience in the quarter.
In the Auto &amp; Home business catastrophic claims were higher than usual primarily because of Hurricane Irene but the catastrophic losses remain very manageable for a business of our size.
Sales in Auto &amp; Home continue their steady upward trend with policy counts increasing 8% over a year ago.
In addition we are in the process of raising auto insurance rates which should help improve the earnings for that business.
To summarize we certainly are feeling the impacts of the market environment but the conditions are very manageable for us and I feel very good about our positioning.
We’re driving strong improvements in earnings and profitability in our Advisory business.
The Asset Management business is holding up well despite very tough conditions and we have a strong foundation to build on in that business.
Insurance &amp; Annuities remain solid contributors outside of the quarter’s DAC expenses and catastrophic losses.
And our foundation is as strong as ever.
Our balance sheet is in excellent condition and we are returning significant capital to shareholders while investing for growth.
I continue to believe we have the right strategy the right market positions and the right foundation to navigate this period in the markets and emerge stronger just as we’ve done before.
Now I’ll turn it over to Walter.
Thank you Jim.
Our reported earnings in the third quarter clearly reflected the challenging environment we’ve been operating in.
The S&amp;P was down 14% sequentially point to point and 7% on average.
The 10-year Treasury declined 125 basis points to about 1.9% and corporate spreads widened.
And we had some pretty severe weather which impacted Auto &amp; Home claims.
The most pronounced impact on our earnings was in the annual and quarterly changes in DAC amortization which resulted from negative market movements.
With this as a backdrop core business trends were solid with earnings growth in Advice &amp; Wealth Management.
Underlying results in Asset Management Annuities &amp; Protection were all within our expectations.
Our balance sheet remained very strong and we will continue to shift to low capital-intensive businesses.
On slide 4 you’ll see a break out of the different items that impacted results in the quarter particularly given some of the large year-over-year changes.
First there were two different DAC impacts in the quarter one from our regular mean reversion that captures equity market movements.
The other is our annual DAC unlocking which factors in our other assumptions like interest spreads and policyholder behavior.
As you can see the combined impact of the DAC items reduced year-over-year earnings by $0.42.
The mean reversion in the quarter was a negative $0.17 compared to a positive $0.10 last year reflecting declines in the equity markets.
The DAC unlocking was a negative $0.10 compared to a positive $0.05 last year.
The annual DAC unlocking was primarily driven by lower interest spreads offset partially by continued strong persistency.
Excluding DAC impacts there were a few unusual items in the quarter that were largely offset and aggregate to about $0.01 per share benefit.
Now let’s look more deeply at the drivers for Ameriprise in each segment.
We generated 8% revenue growth and are driving a hard contribution from our less capital demanding businesses.
Management and distribution fees had a double-digit growth while we had a 1% growth in net investment income reflecting lower portfolio yields.
Overall we continue to shift our revenue base to our less capital-intensive businesses of Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management which represented 58% of the revenues in the quarter.
Turning to Capital on the next slide.
During the quarter we repurchased 9.9 million shares for $447 million.
Between both share repurchase and dividends we have returned more than $2.1 billion to investors since we began our repurchase program in the second quarter of 2010.
This represents about 110% of our operating earnings.
At our Life companies the estimated risk based capital ratio is over 600% well in excess of the required amount.
We are planning to take a fourth quarter dividend of around $850 million and intend to manage RiverSource Life over the long term at an RBC ratio below 500%.
Our hedge program is effective and the quality of our balance sheet is strong.
The investment portfolio is high quality and had $2 billion of net unrealized gains at the end of the quarter.
We have no sovereign debt in Greece Ireland Italy Portugal and Spain and only $50 million of holdings in the U.S.
subsidiary of a financial institution in Spain.
We are very confident with our holdings in Europe and you can find additional detail on these holdings in the Appendix of this presentation.
Before I move into the segment results I want to touch on two special topics the adoption of EITF 09-G and the impact of a prolonged low interest rate environment.
Let’s start with the DAC accounting changes that will be effective in January.
We will adopt EITF 09 on a retrospective basis.
We estimate that this will result in a reduction to our DAC asset of between $2 billion to $2.2 billion which represents about 45% to 50% of the current DAC asset.
On an after-tax basis this is estimated to reduce book value between $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion.
It is expected to have a slight favorable impact on earnings in 2012 and the reduction in book value will increase our return on equity going forward.
The amount of DAC that we are writing off is primarily a result of our distribution model and not due to having an aggressive deferral policy.
We have sold the vast majority of our products to our advisor versus using a third-party distribution channel.
Since this is an affiliated distribution model there are sales-related expenses that we can no longer capitalize since they are not linked directly to a successful sale.
Examples of these selling costs include certain compensation and benefits of employee advisors field leadership and wholesalers as well as some branch office selling costs and support staff.
This change has no impact on our statutory accounting and therefore will have no impact on our excess capital position.
Importantly the reduction in the size of the DAC assets should reduce equity market-related quarterly earnings volatility.
Now let’s move to the potential impact from low interest rates on the next slide.
Clearly the current rate environment is not the best for our business.
The biggest impact is in the Fixed Annuity business.
However the pressure we would expect to see on earnings if the 10-Year Treasury remained low is very manageable.
We estimate that in 2011 low rates will reduce earnings by an estimated $30 million.
If rates remained where they are now it would impact us by an incremental $35 million in both 2012 and 2013.
This evaluation is based upon a static view of the business currently on our books and does not project new business growth.
We do not anticipate low rates to have an impact on reserves or our excess capital during this period and like I said we view this impact as very manageable.
Now let’s take a closer look at our operating performance starting with Advice &amp; Wealth Management on the next slide.
Earnings in Advice &amp; Wealth Management increased 30% and margins increased to 12.4% up from 10.7% last year.
We continue to improve Ameriprise advisor productivity and grow client assets.
Client wrap assets net flows were over $800 million despite the weak equity markets during the quarter.
We saw a 10% increase in the brokerage cash to $14.1 billion and these balances currently earn only about forty basis points.
Turning to Asset Management Asset Management earnings include about $10 million of project-related expenses at Threadneedle relating to a change of transfer agents.
While this resulted in additional expense now it does reduce expense over time.
Excluding these items earnings in the segment increased 7%.
Adjusted net operating margins were 32.7%.
If you exclude the higher expense at Threadneedle margins increased to 35.1%.
The Columbia integration is progressing well with all the fund mergers completed and net synergies on track for our target of $130 million for 2011.
The technological integration is taking a bit longer than we anticipated and we are now targeting a complete separation in early 2012.
Turning to Annuities operating pre-tax income was down year-over-year.
As you can see most of that was related to the $183 million swing we saw in DAC.
In addition earnings benefited from about $33 million in higher investment income.
This was associated with an adjustment we made to the recognition of prepayment income on some structured securities.
Adjusting for these impacts earnings decreased by about 16% primarily from lower fixed annuity earnings reflecting spread compression and lower account values.
The fixed annuity book continues to experience net outflows reflecting low client demand in the current interest rate environment.
From a sales perspective the Ameriprise channel continued to generate strong sales of our RAVA 5 variable annuity product.
As Jim said net flows in this channel were about $400 million.
Overall variable annuity deposits are down 10% given our decision to exit outside distribution last year.
During the quarter we also announced plans to increase the fees on our living benefit riders and variable annuities to reflect current market realities.
Let’s move onto Protection.
Operating pre-tax income in the Protection segment was also impacted by DAC as well as $23 million of higher weather-related losses in the Auto &amp; Home business.
If you exclude these items earnings increased 3% year-over-year as underlying results in both Life &amp; Health and Auto &amp; Home were good.
Auto &amp; Home revenues increased 5% over last year primarily driven by growth in the sales through our partnership with Progressive and we have seen improving trends in the auto bodily injury claims.
In the Life &amp; Health businesses earnings were consistent with our expectations given improvement in the overall claims levels.
Turning to the trends in the firm’s return on equity returns in the quarter declined to 13.4% from a high of 14.5% last quarter.
Since we calculate the return on equity on a trailing four-quarter basis this does reflect the year-over-year swing in DAC unlocking as well as higher catastrophic claims in the Auto &amp; Home.
Given the challenging market environment returns are holding up well.
In conclusion our underlying business performance this quarter was solid.
Earnings were affected by the markets and we continue to invest in our businesses so we are well positioned for growth when the equity markets come back.
We are facing some headwind from low rates yet as we look ahead the impact of prolonged low interest rates on earnings is quite manageable.
Our risk management discipline is paying off under these conditions and we continue to prudently run our business.
We have an effective hedging program against our variable annuities liabilities and our balance sheet is strong.
The business mix continues to shift to lower capital businesses which provide a strong source of excess capital.
As we have demonstrated we are prudent capital managers and will continue to return capital to shareholders as appropriate.
Now we’ll take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) The first question is from Suneet Kamath from Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good morning.
I guess I have a couple of questions.
First on the RBC ratio and the excess capital of $2 billion and the RBC ratio of over 600% my understanding is some of the improvement from last quarter came from the increase in value of the hedges that you have on the books for your variable annuity business.
So if that’s the case and markets rise obviously in the fourth quarter then some of that benefit will unwind.
So I guess what I’m trying to get at is how much of this excess capital that you’re talking about is really sort of redeployable or cash that you’re comfortable taking out of the life subs to support redeployment going forward? Thanks.
It’s actually totally because the hedges actually just offset the basic liability that we had and so they act in unison with it so it actually provided the protection we needed and so it is totally available for distribution.
Okay.
So just to be clear the increase in the RBC ratio from last quarter to this quarter was not driven by the change in value of the hedges because that change in value is offset by something else? That’s correct.
They go in lockstep.
Okay.
Got it.
And then moving onto the share repurchases obviously you were more opportunistic in the third quarter.
How are you thinking about the pace of buybacks going forward? And does this 09-G impact which obviously is not a statutory event but it will change things like debt-to-capital on a GAAP basis will that influence the pace of redeployment? I do not believe it will.
We have discussed this and reviewed this with the rating agencies and as again it is a non-cash event and on that basis they’ve viewed it and they feel that we’re within the ranges that could allow us to continue on the repurchasing.
And would you say that kind of current pace is about what you’re thinking? Suneet we’ll continue to review the opportunity for repurchase as well as other forms of redeployment.
What we would say is that we’re trading way below our intrinsic value so we saw it is a good opportunity in the third quarter and we’ll continue to review it appropriately as we move forward.
Okay.
Great.
And then my last question is just on interest rates.
I appreciate the earnings discussion in Walter’s presentation but I was a little curious that the equity allocated to long-term care as one example actually fell in the quarter by a fair amount.
So I was curious about some details in terms of that especially given the low long-term rate environment.
But I guess the bigger question is how are you guys thinking about when the rate environment if it persists sort of moves from an earnings drag issue which you sort of quantified to something that might be a little bit more serious in terms of either statutory reserves or DAC or anything like that.
That would be helpful.
Thanks.
On the long-term care that was a reserve adjustment based upon actuaries evaluating it they made a statutory reserve adjustment and that was something that has been evaluated and was implemented in the third quarter.
On the interest we are continuing evaluating that and obviously we do not see it having a significant impact as the schedules indicated and we will then have to evaluate it if it does continue beyond the two years that we discussed ‘12 and ‘13.
But we certainly feel our capital and our earnings capacity we’ll be able to deal with it in the near-term and then we’ll have to evaluate what changes have to be post that.
Okay.
Just quick follow-up on the long-term care statutory reserve release was there a GAAP earnings benefit from that in the quarter? No there was not.
It was strictly statutory.
Okay.
All right.
Terrific.
Thank you.
Thank you Suneet.
(Operator Instructions) The next question is from John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Two questions for you if I could.
In Asset Management can you help me with the distribution fees and distribution expenses? If I look at distribution fees they fell 12% quarter-over-quarter I’m looking at 3Q versus 2Q and that’s about what I was expecting but distribution expenses remained flat and I thought there was supposed to be a relationship there where there was almost a direct function of distribution fees.
But that clearly wasn’t the case.
Can you help me understand what happened there? I think it is that while certain of the parts certainly fluctuate with it there are elements that don’t as it relates to some are tied to account fees some are tied to wholesaling and other factors.
So it will eventually you get the timing differentials so we anticipate that timing differential will adjust itself and as you saw the net change was about $13 million when you take the distribution revenue minus the distribution expense we had an additional $13 million.
We don’t see an issue with that; it will adjust itself.
So that will come back to you and how quickly does that happen Walter? It will come back in next – it depends on what happens to the markets and other things of that nature but it will – it’s more of a timing – I don’t have the exact elements of it but certainly it will be driven by the market and it will happen obviously depending on how markets move because it’s not a perfect correlation.
Okay.
Maybe I’ll just follow up off-line on that one.
No problem.
And then just thinking about the asset – again on Asset Management just where you guys are on integration gross and net saves.
I think you made the comment about $130 million on target for that for this year.
Can you just reset for us where you guys were coming out of this quarter how much you have incrementally and what we should be expecting in 2012? Yeah as I indicated the bulk of the synergies will hit the $130 million range as we talked about for 2011.
With the delay on the reengineering that will carry over into 2012 as we implement the one-time charge activities and we do complete the final integration and we are on track to be through 2012 in the $140 million range on our synergies.
Are they one-time costs? I forget what that was originally expected to be but given the timing and the push out on the system side are you expecting that the one-time costs related to the integration process are going to be a bit higher? Yes they are.
Obviously take a look through the third quarters about $182 million and they will be higher and we are assessing that right now.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You’re quite welcome.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Hall from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
I have a few different questions.
The first one has to do with the dividend that you indicated you’re going to pay out of the Life companies in the fourth quarter that $850 million.
Is that encumbered in any fashion or is that free and available? Well I think we get – the majority of it is not encumbered.
We will get permission from the Superintendent of Insurance and we are in the process of doing that.
We do not see an issue with that.
Okay.
On the DAC write-off just wondering if you could comment because we’ve been seeing a number of other companies report similar types of things and at this juncture the size of your write-off relative to your DAC balances on the higher-end of things I was just wondering if you could comment on what it is about either your book of business or perhaps your DAC policies that would lead to that result? Sure.
First and foremost it is totally appropriate the level that we’re doing write down from that standpoint and it primarily focuses on the nature of the business and written through the inside channel and certainly if you look at the components if you look at the comp component and then the selling rate as it relates to the DAC that you would have in those two components the impact relates to an inside channel.
Those elements under the new rules of being a successful sale are more subject to reversal from that standpoint of the policy that was in effect prior.
So since we have the bulk of our activity through the inside channel that’s where the impact is coming on the reversal of that DAC; whereas if you sold in an outside channel most of that is absorbed through the comp rate and which is again tied to a successful sale so therefore it does not get reversed.
So we’ve been through this we’ve reviewed it we’ve reviewed it with our auditors and certainly have been evaluated it and we feel it’s totally appropriate based upon the type of business and the focus in the channel that it evolved from.
Great.
And then just moving on to fund flows Jim I was wondering if you could just comment on the momentum that Threadneedle is showing in the Middle East.
Is that – what’s all of a sudden driving that or is it not that sudden and is there sustainability around it? Yes.
As you are aware we had mentioned over the last few quarters that we’ve been expanding our distribution with Threadneedle to the other regions of the world and one of the ones that we started to really develop last year was the Middle East and over the course of the year we’ve been winning mandates coming from the Middle East.
We’ve also expanded recently to Asia and we think that that will start also come to bear some fruit as we move to the next number of quarters as well.
So we do believe that it is something sustainable.
Threadneedle has excellent product.
As you know based on what we’ve experienced in Europe and the sovereign debt crisis we experienced some lumpiness in redemptions et cetera because of what has occurred but that come back quickly again as we saw previously when that picked up again as an issue in Europe earlier in the year.
So we do feel like the pipeline for Threadneedle is good it’s strong and we can continue to win good mandates.
Their investment performance over the cycle has been quite good and they have really good product.
And so we think that that will continue.
Great.
Thank you very much.
At this time we have no further questions.
Mr.
Cracchiolo I will turn the call back over to you for closing remarks.
Thank you.
We appreciate you listening in this morning.
As I opened the call even though we’ve experienced another impact from the market environment stock market being down a lot in the quarter we do feel like the fundamentals of our business remain quite solid.
And as we look across the businesses we feel very comfortable with the position and the hand that we have.
We feel good that if this environment continues we can navigate even stronger than we did the first time out and in addition to that we do believe that as markets continue to repair and stabilize the foundation we have in place the investments we continue to make and the traction we’re gaining including with the Asset Management businesses as we have really integrated and stabilized them will bear fruit as we move forward.
We have derisked the business we feel very good about our capital position volatility is lower we really have an excellent book in our Annuity business and we have even though there are the normal exposures from market declines et cetera on a relative size and scale it’s very manageable for the size and scope of our business and the diversity of our business and the capital position.
So we will update you even further as we talk at our financial community meeting which is November 16 at 8:00 a.m.
at the New York Stock Exchange and we look forward to having a very good conversation with you and outlining how we’ll continue to make progress as we move forward and also to discuss any of what you might think as issues or concerns in the environment so that we can actually quantify that for you and qualitatively give you how we think about it so that you can make informed decisions.
So we appreciate your time and thank you very much and look forward to speaking to you further.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Year-end Earnings Call.
My name is John and I will be your operator for today’s call.
(Operator Instructions).
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Alicia Charity.
Ms.
Charity you may begin.
Welcome to the Ameriprise Financial’s Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
With me on the call today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we’ll be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the underlying performance of the company’s operations.
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today’s materials available on our website.
Some of the statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking statements reflecting management’s expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today’s date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today’s earnings release our 2010 annual report to shareholders or our 2010 10-K report.
We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’d like to turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks for joining us for our fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings discussion.
I’ll begin with an overview of our business performance and some thoughts about our positioning for future growth and then Walter will discuss our financial results in more detail.
After that we’ll take your questions.
We finished the year with substantial progress with a solid fourth quarter despite continuing challenges from the environment.
Markets recovered a bit in the quarter but remained highly volatile which caused clients to become more cautious and move to larger cash positions and interests rates remained near zero which resulted in further spread compression.
My key message for you today is this as always we have ability to navigate through the short-term challenges and we are focused on the medium to long term which holds great potential for us.
Our financial foundation remains one of the best in the industry and it continues to give us important stability and strategic flexibility.
We believe our financial strength enables us to weather the current storms and maintain our strong position in the future.
We continue to generate significant capital and we are still holding more than $2 billion of excess capital and that after returning $1.7 billion or 135% of our operating earnings to share holders through dividends and buybacks during the year.
In addition in December we announced a 22% increase in the dividend which will be paid in February and we now have increased our dividend five times in our six years as a public company.
Even with the significant capital we’ve returned I believe we are in a stronger capital position now than we were a year ago.
As our business has become less capital intensive we’ve been able to free up capital to return to shareholders and invest for growth while maintaining our ratings.
Our many strengthens many our highly diversified and proven business model to our client focus to our financial position allowed us to generated record operating earnings of $1.23 billion and a record operating revenues of $10.1 billion for the year.
Now I will provide you some commentary on our business segments and then I will give you my thoughts on the year ahead.
First in our Advice &amp; Wealth Management segment we’ve delivered another strong quarter and our most profitable year ever.
The market volatility and low rates seem to be affecting firms across the industry with clients once again seeking safety and moving to cash and other low risk options.
Still our advisors generated good quarterly production and a record 384 000 of annual operating net revenue per advisor.
We’ve generated strong client asset flows highlighted by 1.4 billion in wrap net flows for the quarter and 7.3 billion for the year.
We also recorded our third consecutive quarter growth in the number of advisors.
Our long term work to reengineer our advisor platform is largely complete and has given us the lift in advisor productivity that we anticipated.
At the same time we stepped up experience advisor recruiting efforts and generated good momentum with a 105 advisors joining us during the quarter and a total of 337 for the year.
The momentum is continuing in to this year.
In fact January was one of our best recruiting months ever with [new] recruits joining the firm.
In the quarter our margins in the Advice &amp; Wealth Management segment decreased slightly as a result of our increased investments for growth and slowing client transaction activity due to market volatility.
Even in the difficult operating environment we are investing in the business Beginning in September we increased our national television advertising presence and we are finding that the ads are resonating well consumers.
We are continuing to roll-out our new brokerage platform which is a major multi-year investment.
The conversion has gone smoothly for our employee advisors and now we are in the process of converting franchise advisor systems which is the larger part of our overall network.
The brokerage platform investment will continue at a fairly high level this year but we expect the process and related expenses to wrap up in 2012.
We’ll also invest in new avenues for long term growth including the launch of a financial planning business in India.
That power with India advisors bringing our holistic approach to the Indian consumer is off to a promising start.
In addition we will soon open a new operation site in Las Vegas where we have been able to take advantage of the good labor market and low real estate prices.
Our building there will house several functions including advisors technology support staff and client service people.
We continue to invest while we are beginning to tighten our management of discretionary expenses to offset potential market volatility.
We are doing that across the firm and I will comment further on this topic in a moment.
Now we’ll move on to Asset Management where the fundamentals remain solid and our growth opportunity is quite attractive.
With the quarter across the segment we generated 4.3 billion of net inflows.
That number includes the 14 billion institutional mandates Threadneedle 1 from Liverpool Victoria which was one of the largest single pieces of institutional business that went up for bid in the UK in 2011.
Apart from this significant win as we mentioned during our financial community meeting in November.
We experienced 6.7 billion in redemption from low revenue in form of parent accounts.
We expect some lump outflows to continue including about $4 billion of former parent-related outflows in the first quarter and an additional 3 billion of these low margin assets as the year progresses.
We also still expect to loose the previously announced 1.8 billion outflow from the New York 529 plan at some point this year.
It’s important to note that the vast majority of the expected outflows from former parent accounts should be completed this year.
Retail assets remained a significant challenge for the industry with almost $50 billion in net outflows from domestic long term equity funds in the fourth quarter alone.
We remain in net outflows and retail funds at Columbia; primarily because of weakness is sub-advised accounts which accounted for 1.3 billion of net outflows in the quarter.
That said we are seeing significant improvements in sales early this year particularly in our focused funds.
As a result we are generating net inflows in certain fund areas that are on significant outflows across the industry.
The institutional business is also making progress especially in third party channels.
We have won several mandates that have not yet been funded and our pipeline of potential new business continues to grow.
In terms of investment performance at Columbia our shorter term numbers dip somewhat but our longer term record remained strong.
We are seeing good improvements in performance earlier this year.
In fact Columbia generated very strong performance month in January.
Internationally Threadneedle continues to generate strong results with excellent investment performance and reasonable flows given European market conditions.
I should note that Threadneedle also retained the mandate to manage substantially all of the Zurich assets to a competitively re-tender process.
Like Columbia Threadneedle is off to a good start this year with good net inflows in January.
Overall we feel good about our position in global Asset Management and what we created with Columbia.
The integration will be complete in this quarter.
We have our wholesaling teams fully engaged across the country and they have strong performance to back their efforts; and we are developing new business collaboration between Columbia and Threadneedle to drive global growth opportunities.
Now we move on to annuities and insurance.
The annuity business continues to perform in line with our expectations both in terms of sales and risk.
In total the variable annuities business generated new inflows of 227 million and the Ameriprise channel delivered net inflows of 442 million.
Overall flows continue to be impacted by our decision to exit outside distribution of variable annuities and we continue to feel good about that precision given the interest rate environment and the current risk return parameters of the business.
With regard to fixed annuities we continue to be in net outflows because we have not put new product on the books due to the low rates.
Walter will discuss this in more detail.
Overall both the fixed and variable annuity books continue to deliver solid returns and our risk is well managed.
That said we recognize that the economics of this business are changing.
To accommodate the changes brought on by the years of near-zero short-term interest rates we’ve decided to raise fees and new variable annuity riders and we’ve communicated the decision to our advisors.
The higher fees are likely to dampen sales in the short term but we believe this is the right move to ensure we can continue to meet the long term guarantees of many of our annuity contracts and deliver strong shareholder value from this business.
In addition in the second quarter of this year we will introduce new variable annuity products that we believe will meet client needs while providing sustainable economics.
In fixed annuities with low rates continuing and with the Feds operation twist last year we expect spread compression to continue in 2012.
The Protection segment delivered strongest quarter of the year primarily from improvements in auto and home results.
That business returned to more normal claim levels and is once again generating solid growth and profits.
Auto and Homes policy accounts continue their steady increase up 7% over a year ago.
In the Life business while clients continue to be reluctant to commit cash to long term contracts given the tough economy involved for markets we have seen some improvement in sales.
We generated good sales of our new indexed universal life insurance product which meets an important client need in volatile markets.
During the quarter we were recognized by insure.com as the number one life insurer in terms of client satisfaction and those kinds of accolades served us as good sales [through] for wholesales and advisors.
In total life insurance in force remained essentially flat at a $191 billion To summarize 2011 was a very good year for Ameriprise despite significant environmental challenges.
While the economy in the US is slowly recovering the market environment remains quite challenging and I think you are seeing the impacts across the broader financial services industry.
Even with a recent bounce back equity markets are exceptionally volatile.
Interest rates will likely remain near zero for three more years and the regulatory environment is changing rapidly.
We are very conscious of the environment and its effect on our revenues.
Expense discipline has long been one of our core competencies and we are further stepping up our expense management efforts now.
We are taking a close look at all discretionary spending across the firm to ensure we are operating as efficiently as possible.
That said we are continuing to make important investments for the year and beyond.
We are focused on a number of initiatives that we believe will drive the business forward.
I like to briefly review just a few of them.
We are going to emphasize our retirement capabilities through our advertising and new approach to help our advisors to discuss retirement with their clients.
You all know that the retirement need is very large.
We think we are ideally situated to meet the holistic needs of people approaching this milestone.
Second; we’ll continue to invest to help advice become more productive and to bring in highly productive experience devices.
We are providing the technology and marketing support advisors need to serve clients efficiently in bringing new clients.
Third in Asset Management we are focused on flows and broadening our distribution.
We believe we have the investment performance to drive improved flows and we’ve emerged merger related impacts in the US.
Now we are investing to build the Columbia management brand and to promote our investment performance.
At the same time we are broadening our distribution reach to new markets with Threadneedle making inroads in the Middle East Continental Europe and Asia.
Overall we are uniquely positioned to take advantage of the extremely compelling consumer need for retirement products and advice We have demonstrated our ability to succeed in good times and bad and I believe we are in excellent position to navigate this period and emerge stronger just as we did following the financial crisis three years ago.
Now I will turn it over to Walter.
Operating earnings in the fourth quarter clearly reflected the challenging environment.
While equity markets have rallied about 5% in January market volatility remains with us in 2012 and it is clear that interest rates are unlikely to increase until 2014.
Looking at revenues in more detail; you can see that excluding the hedge fund fees revenues would have been about flat to last year.
The underlying slowdown in revenue growth reflects low client activity from weak market sentiment.
Clients are increasingly focused on capital preservation and generating income.
This impacted revenues in two ways; lower transactional volumes and an increase in cash balances.
How long the shift in behavior continues is difficult to predict.
Revenues were also impacted by low rates with net investment income down 4% from last year.
However the underlying fundamentals of the business remained strong with a growing advisor base and good asset growth.
From an earnings perspective operating earnings per share grew 2% despite lower revenues as we managed expense levels and continued to make substantial investments in brand and technology.
We also realized synergies from Columbia integration and saw a good improvement in auto and home results.
Turning to slide 4; operating return on equity in the quarter increased 13.1% compared with 12.9% a year ago.
As a reminder we calculate return on equity on a trailing four quarter basis.
We saw a big swing in DAC unlocking and model changes year-over-year.
Excluding these impacts underlying return on equity group from 12.5% to 13.4%.
As we look ahead to next year we are on track to hit the 15% to 18% range we provided in November.
Underlying our return on equity is our strong balance sheet fundamentals.
Our hedge program is effective; our capital ratios are strong with debt-to-cap of 18.5%; the investment portfolio is high quality.
We had only $11 million of impairments in the quarter and as we have said we have no holdings of [stopping] debt in financially troubled European countries.
Turning to page 5; we ended the year with over $2 billion of excess capital and about 600 million of debt capacity.
In 2011 we returned 1.7 billion of capital to shareholders or about 135% of our earnings.
We received 2.1 billion of dividends for our operating companies this year with most of that coming from our life companies.
In the fourth quarter we received 850 million dividend in the form of securities from the Life company.
These securities are highly rated and very liquid.
This additional dividend will reduce investment income at the Life company by about 2%.
As for the dividend the RBC ratio remained strong at 490% which was our targeted level.
Turning to segment results starting with Advice &amp; Wealth Management; operating earnings in Advice &amp; Wealth Management decreased 14%.
We continue to see good asset growth and retention with net inflows of $1.4 billion in the quarter.
However earnings were impacted by a slowdown in revenue growth from a decline in transactional volumes and from clients holding more cash.
This is a trend being experienced throughout the industry.
Cash [sweep] accounts increased to $15 billion and we are currently earning just 42 basis points.
In the quarter we continued our investments by launching our new brand campaign and the development and implementation of our new brokerage platform.
The new platform is expected to be complete by the fourth quarter of 2012.
In total growth investments were about $14 million higher in the quarter and we would expect that elevated level of expense to continue through 2012.
Turning to Asset Management.
Asset Management earnings declined 36 million primarily due to hedge funds where earnings were down 21 million year-over-year.
The remainder of the earnings decline reflects the expected impact from both markets and its outflows.
Expenses excluding the hedge fund impact were about flat year-over-year and includes funding additional brand divestments.
Adjusted net operating margins were 31.4%.
The Columbia integration is progressing well and we realized net synergies of 130 million in line with our target for 2011.
The technology integration is on track for separation in mid-2012.
Annuity earnings were up a bit this quarter.
However we see different trends in variable and fixed annuity books.
In variable annuities operating earnings grew 13% excluding some favorable adjustments.
On a year-over-year basis the DAC and DSIC impact was about the same given very similar market performance in each period.
We had client inflows and also had $10 million of favorable items including improvements to our models and the market impact on our debt [band] of reserves.
Variable annuity sales in Ameriprise channel declined 9% compared to sales a year ago when we introduced our RAVA 5 product.
Net flows in this channel were about 442 million.
In the quarter we also announced plans to increase fees on variable annuity new business.
We believe this is an appropriate action to reflect the change in economics for that product.
In fixed annuities operating earnings declined 32% which includes an unfavorable adjustment to the reserve for indexed annuity contracts.
As we previously indicated we expect fixed annuity earnings to decline as we invest asset at lower yields.
The incremental annual negative impact will primarily be about 35 million after tax for all Ameriprise and as I mentioned earlier the reduction in investable assets at the Life Company will add additional pressure on net investment income.
Let’s move on to Protection.
Operating pre-tax income in the Protection segment increased 30% driven by improved earnings in auto and home and stable earnings in the life and health area.
Auto and home revenues increased 6% over last year primarily driven by growth in sales through our partnership with Progressive.
We saw improvement in trends in auto and body injury claims which are back to more normalized levels.
In closing we delivered strong results in 2011 and continued to demonstrate our ability to be successful in a range of market conditions.
As Jim said we are managing for the short-term but we’re focused on the long-term.
We have strong financial fundamentals and we’ll continue our focus on enterprise risk management to drive shareholder value.
With that we’ll open it up to questions.
(Operator Instruction).
Our first question comes from John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee</strong> Obviously a lot of margin pressure in Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management this quarter.
9ish in A&amp;WM and maybe just shy of 17x items in Asset Management.
I’m just interested in the 12% target and the 23% target for those two segments respectively.
I know client activity etcetera pressure points; my question is; are those targets achievable and over what timeframe? John this is Jim Cracchiolo.
I’ll respond first and then Walter can compliment.
If I look at the AWM segment we were hit with a bit of impact due to market volatility.
I mean fees were lower our Wrap business went down a lot in the third quarter because of market depreciation and our underlying flows are still fine; that started to come back in the fourth quarter.
But of course you’re taking the fees for every month during the quarter and they would’ve been impacted.
Second if you look at a number of companies are already reporting and in the industry a lot of client activity did slow in the fourth quarter whether you look at the retail firms the direct firms or wire houses because of the market volatility.
It does impact client behavior.
So even though we’re sitting here now in January and the markets are back during that period if we recollect in August September things were looking pretty ugly again and it does give people pause and there was a large amount of volatility in October November etcetera.
So we’re no different.
I mean our client activity is looking at CNBC and the news and looking at how many times that stock index moves up and down and the European crisis and the political climate that’s out there.
Now will that come back if things start to again continue to show stabilization etcetera? The answer will be yes.
But it does your top line revenue.
Now in addition to that what we thought appropriate so is we are investing in our multiyear platform.
We didn’t want to slow that down and so we started the conversion to our franchisee system integrating in the full brokerage to all of our other systems and capabilities and going through that conversion that will continue through this year as we get to the fourth quarter it will be pretty much complete.
That was a step up a bit in investment.
We also were investing in a number of other things to continue to build out our systems mobile etcetera apps and a number of things that funds get committed before and your project work going on before.
You can tell with the markets going to do (inaudible).
Agee</strong> I understand that.
If I could just interject.
If I think about that $14 million year-over-year higher expenses on those items that Walter had mentioned; that’s about 150 basis points as I calculated on the margin for the segment.
So in other words should we think about the remainder of the difference to your 12% which is about where you were the last couple of quarters as being just we got to watch we got a see consumer sentiment we got to see transactional volumes and client activity picked back up and we regained that difference?  We will regain that because remember our systems development was through the year.
We had a little extra in the fourth quarter but it was through the year.
The only thing incremental was the relaunch of our new campaign which started in September when we had a full year impact.
Now that we are going to continue that campaign through the first quarter and then we’ll evaluate how much we spend later in the year.
But I would say this.
We do have the ability to control some of our discretionary expenses that we’re looking at.
I do believe again I can’t dictate the markets and client activity.
But I would say we will be in the 12% margins this year in the AWM business.
So I don’t look at that one quarter as an issue.
I would actually say there’s strong underlying growth the indicators are there advisors are not going to stop their productivity but clients do have to get a little settled.
So I feel good about that segment and I feel good about what we’re doing in it.
As I said the investments we’re making they’ll start to roll off like that technology this year and there will be a big upside because we are running two systems we are converting thousands of advisors and we are doing a lot of systems development.
A lot of that was in last year’s P&amp;L and we still got good margins.
So once that rolls off it will help tremendously.
In the Asset Management business to be very clear on that we have a level of depreciation.
We’ve lost a number of assets because equity markets weren’t best to get flows where we thought we would get.
The parent stuff I know people look at the volume of those dollars but we always sort of thought that we would lose them.
They are not a lot of fee basis.
So I would say that 23% no I would probably put more in the 20% 21% based on just where markets are because I think that compressed us where we thought things would improve in the market situation.
Again if markets come back it will be a different sorry but if we’re thinking about that on a relative sense today that’s probably more where I would target it.
Having said that I do see some underlying things changing around there.
Now flows in the industry aren’t great but Threadneedle is doing good.
I think Columbia is starting to gain some traction through its third party institutional and retailer’s outflows are slowing.
So we’ll get over the hump of the parent stuff.
I identified it just as I told you in my talking points so that no one’s surprised at it but those will be lumpy.
But at the end of the day again I think we are making a good underlying traction.
Agee</strong> Just one last quick one is your buyback currently curtailed or is it operating just at a lower level than we’ve been accustomed to?  We did not curtail it.
Again going into the fourth quarter; now looking back you can always say hey markets why did you do that? But markets were bit more volatile.
We are looking at what it looked like.
We did a substantial amount over the course of the year and we are also looking at potential opportunities at the same time.
But no buyback is not curtailed.
We will continue it this year.
We just sort of adjusted it depending at the same time.
We don’t have a perfect crystal ball on things.
Let me just add to that if you looked at the share price it went from like 37 to 50 in the quarter and so is completely volatile.
We actually purchased on the average.
But as Jim said it was just looking at a pretty volatile market and in retrospect you can always say could’ve bought more.
The reality is I think we bought (inaudible) but no curtailment.
Our next question comes from Suneet Kamath from Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
I just wanted to follow-up on John’s questioning on the margin.
I am actually surprised to some degree that you feel comfortable with the 12% Advice &amp; Wealth and you are sort of lowering Asset Management.
The reason is you’ve reaffirmed those targets or those objectives in sort of November at your Investor Day.
From Investor Day to the end of the year I think the markets were higher in terms of helping the Asset Management.
I get the fact that client activity is weaker but again you’re affirming the 12% in Advice &amp; Wealth.
So I’m just trying to understand like what’s the delta between what you said in November in terms of Asset Management and what you’re saying now?  As you talk about looking at it from that standpoint certainly the markets have rallied and as we’ve seen the volatility with it if you’d just take a straight line projection up certainly as Jim said you might get to a higher number.
But it is challenging for where these markets are and the more you get shifts coming in and out of that nature it does affect us from the equity and fixed income flip.
So I think that is really where the leverage is going to go in and out.
It’s just this volatility in the market it’s just at a pretty steep basis and so I think that’s where you’re seeing us be a little cautious on that.
Maybe getting back to Advice &amp; Wealth then 12% is a pretty big lift for the year.
I know you touched on it in answering John’s question but what specifically do you think gets you from where you are today there? Is it really a throttling back of some of the advertising expense beyond the first quarter or what are kind of the big levers that you have to get to the 12%?  So let’s look at it.
From a perspective again I can’t predict activity during the quarter in fees.
So for instance if you say and that goes for the Asset Management; if you say the markets are going to just continue to go up from here or even manage stability from here and rise then we’re talking about a different story.
Our forecasts our projection is just based on last year was we didn’t take that right.
It was up it was down and you don’t get on average the fees all the time.
So part of our difference may be from what you’re looking at is that if we’re here and we’re continuing to rise on a nice even slope that’s one thing.
If you got a level of volatility it’s another thing.
In regards the margin itself I do believe we can manage some of the discretionary expenses.
I think we’re going to set some internal targets to tighten up on something that’s nice to do and nice to have.
But if the revenue is weak we got to adjust that.
At the same time as I said we want to complete some of these investments like that technology get it behind us.
That will help our margins in the future.
Interest rates also affected us a bit more when the [NACE] we were even using the yield curve last year.
That’s a little out so we want to make up for some of that by tightening those expenses.
Now will revenue rise as much? Maybe not but I can still tighten the margin even if revenue is a bit lower.
So we are guarding against the revenue weakness.
If the markets come back here and stay stable then I think we’ll continue to show the rise we did in the first few quarters of last year.
If it doesn’t then I need to tighten the ship a little bit.
Understood and one quick follow-up.
When you said earlier that you expect to hit 12% margin in Advice &amp; Wealth in 2012 is that for the full year or you staying sort of by the end of the year?  That is for the full year.
That was the expectation.
And that’s still your expectation? With the caveats that you mentioned yeah.
We can’t guarantee anything.
What we’re saying is we’re still trying to shoot that and we have a number of things that we are working on to help make that happen.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kligerman from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Just following on that last line of questions it would imply to get that 12% margin you need to use these discretionary spending initiatives to maybe cut at least $15 million a quarter in expenses.
Is that the objective and maybe Jim or Walter a little more clarity on those potential initiatives?  I haven’t done your exact calculation but it is a combination of certainly as Jim said as you look at the revenue on managing the expense based upon that revenue base.
So yeah I think we have degrees of flexibility on that.
I haven’t done the exact calculation the way you have done it.
But it is a combination of factors that go through.
Anything specific you could lay out (inaudible) Walter?  Really what it is across the board is this.
We do a lot of technology spend for enhancements new initiatives beyond the brokerage platform conversion.
There are numerous program on the marketing and support levels that we have.
There’s a number of things that we truly invested in enhanced training and setting up new initiatives like onboarding our new advisors and even increasing our advertising there.
So there are number of different things that we’ve done that we could tighten a bit depending on what the market situation looks like that would be helpful in this environment.
Controlling some of our staff expenses that get charged in from the different units into the AWM business that we can tighten.
Listen when we were growing in a number of areas etcetera.
We wanted to continue to invest more heavily.
We had a big investment agenda and we might just have to temper that a bit and tighten it and we’ve been used to doing this.
We’ve always reengineered.
We have a number of new initiatives that our resources were consumed with the integration of Columbia that we’re freeing backup; that we can work on again reengineering and moving things and enhancing the way we operate and process.
And some of the things we’re looking to do will help in that line.
So this apart we need to do this is part of what we’ve always done.
Again I’m not putting the 12% as a firm thing as the most important objective.
I’m just saying I think I have opportunities and we are still believing that we are growing the advisor force we are growing ways that they can deepen their relationships.
We are introducing things that hopefully will help them deepen and gain more assets.
So some of that will come from revenues some of it will come from expense tightening.
Okay.
And then maybe just shifting gears to the Asset Management area particularly Columbia where the one-year number for your above-average (inaudible) numbers.
It went from 62% asset weighted in 2Q to 56% 3Q down to 38% in the fourth quarter and that kind of dragged down the three-year numbers well.
Could you give a little color on where you expect that number to go in the near term? What’s causing that struggle in performance and what you think the implications are for retail net flows going forward?  So there are two things that occurred and I’ll give you a little more color to it.
On the one year performance what occurred is that we had a number of our domestic equity funds falling a bit low the Lipper medians.
Now the differentials between the second and third quartile were very small in 2011 and while we under-performed and since it was so small we could make up that ground in most cases quickly and January is already showing that that’s come back around.
So we think that we’ll start to show improvements.
The big change was we had one of our funds move below and it was a big fund move below the median and that was because a good quarter rolled off and the bad quarter rolled on in the sense of hurting that.
But already January performance is good there as well and we’re hoping that that will start to turn its colors as well.
But we think it has a lot to do with that movement so to speak and our investment people are feeling good that there’s an ability to continue to see improvements there.
Got it.
And then just lastly M&amp;A; it seemed like you were alluding in an earlier question to the fact that you’re looking at opportunities.
Do you think that’s the environment [heated] up a bit in terms of opportunities and in what areas? Asset Management? Advice &amp; Wealth Management?  Well I think you’re seeing a bit more level of activity out there in the Asset Management world.
We’ll continue to look a potential opportunities.
It doesn’t mean there was one for us but we’ll continue to look and see if there is something that’s good that we could potentially do.
We have the flexibility to do that and incremental to what we’re doing now we’ll continue to look at the buybacks as I said as part of what we’re going to continue to execute on and we’re going to continue to review our dividend policy as well.
We did another raise at the end of last year.
So we’re going to look flexibly of how we can create shareholder value using the strength of our balance sheet and the free cash that we continue to generate.
That’s why as I look at the fourth quarter it wasn’t what we ideally would want.
But having said that I think if you look at the underlying of what we’ve been able to invest in what we’ve been able to do and even though one can estimate what that will always be to next quarter I think if you look at the underlying things we have just accomplished over the last few years we want to continue to build upon that.
And we’re going to continue to work hard to do that.
Our next question comes from Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
So just to go back to the margin discussion and AWM; I understand it’s hard for you to predict environment in the markets and the level of productivity etcetera.
But it does feel like you guys are bringing in higher-producing advisors in the employee channel where planning capacity and incremental margin on that should in theory be higher.
So kind of taking that into consideration do you think there’s some room for margin improvement from this 9% to 10% level assuming markets don’t really change from here?  Yes.
Complemented to what I said.
But yes that was another thing you just pointed out very clearly.
We are adding a lot of productivity from new people joining us.
It takes time to ramp up.
The ones that were added two years ago are ramping nicely.
The one we added last year will help the ramp up this year and we are accelerated the number of people we brought in towards the latter part of the year.
On Asset Management you told us about the same redemptions at the Investor Day a month and a half ago.
So net-net you are probably seeing maybe $8 billion to $9 billion of [still] redemptions come in that you know of in 2012.
But then you guys also talked about institutional pipeline that was pretty good and there’s some mended that you won but haven’t funded yet.
Can you quantify those and what you think those actually going to fund?  Well as I said we have some fundings already come in like in our Threadneedle area and in the Columbia area.
We have some good wins that we won in the fourth quarter and December etcetera that we think will be finding in the first quarter.
We have others that were in the pipeline that we’re bidding on; the pipeline is quite strong.
So here again I can’t give you numbers per say right now but I would just say that the improvements are there.
We think that we’ll win.
Again if you adjust for these parent stuff that I just mentioned I think that this will be one of the areas that we’ll look for improvement in growth this year based on the traction that we’re gaining.
Shifting gears a little bit on capital management and potential acquisition opportunity for you guys Jim on current operating earnings basis you guys spit out Walter you pointed at 135% of your total operating earnings between the buybacks and the dividends.
Given the slowdown in the fourth quarter but I mean maybe we should think about more on an annualized full run rate basis is that kind of the total payout that you guys are thinking about for 2012? That’s question number one and then the follow-up to that on the M&amp;A side I guess what areas in Asset Management do you guys still feel you have some product holes that you would need to fill?  Alex we don’t set a hard fast target but we have about as of the end of December about $1.450 billion left in the authorization and that spreads over approximately six quarters.
So you can get a pretty good idea what the standard of this playing average is and then as we said we’ll be opportunistic about it.
So really while we bought back a [250 billion] in the fourth quarter we didn’t feel that was really retreating from it.
As I indicated it was extremely volatile markets so we will just gauge that.
But certainly I don’t forecast earnings; as you look at it we do gear as we understand that as Jim said we’re looking at which way whether its dividends are it’s going to be buybacks.
So I think those sort of indications should give you some comfort zone of where the minimum standards are.
Okay.
And the product holes potentially?  I think we would like to continue to grow our international businesses.
I think if we look at the US it’s not so much product holes per se.
Now that we’ve completed and upgrading our systems etcetera and we have good things in place we could probably take on more assets and expand a bit more there and in some of the areas.
So it’s more of what would help us to continue to position ourselves well and gain from the position that we put in place even gain some more profitability in revenue.
So I think that’s what I would say.
If you are looking at areas to expand in it would mainly be more international than domestic.
If we are looking for more of an ability to consolidate onto something we’ve built it would be more in the US.
Our next question comes from Jeffrey Schuman from KBW.
Please go ahead.
I think we hit the Wealth Management margin pretty well.
I maybe got a little bit lost on the Asset Management margin comments.
In response to John’s question you mentioned 21%.
I wasn’t clear if you are suggesting that as possibly a relevant aspiration for 2012 or whether that is the new 23% sort of longer term more basic aspiration?  No.
I was just commenting on 2012.
Again I am not here to predict or project by actual numbers because again a lot goes into it.
I mean if we had a good read on markets and what goes into happens in equity and whether there’s a shift back around in flows in equity I’d be able to secure and give you a better calculation.
But I think just off the top of our heads here and thinking about the 23 and just based on what we’ve been seeing and have we sort of adjusted that in our view right now for 2012 not for the longer term.
Well that’s very helpful Jim because we’ve seen a lot of margins over time and I think for a period we operated under some pretty clear goalposts and you are advancing on those goalposts.
I think we were also on the same page and over the last couple of quarters we’ve all got a little bit disoriented.
So understanding that things are fluid it’s still very helpful that you’ve given us some sense of where you could go in 2012.
No I agree with you.
As I said if we go back a few years on the AWM we accounted on getting a lot of margin from interest rates rising to get to the 12%.
As I said to you we’re trying to shoot for that 12% even in these volatile markets with heavy investment without that interest margin.
So if Bernanke changed their view of the world you’re talking about a substantial improvement there that we’ve just again put off again for another year and a half because of his latest views.
So these things are a bit fluid the markets are a bit volatile.
When they go down in Europe you lose flows when they come back you start gain them again.
It’s not like it’s a consistent feeling that anyone has but it’s fluid but the underlying focus has not changed.
I want to be very clear to you about the analysts and investors it has not changed.
We’re working hard on it and as I said we’ll continue to look at using both the balance sheet flexibly as well as some of our current base spending and investments.
There are just some things I won’t entail because we’re halfway through them and I think they’ll pay good dividends after we’re finished.
That’s very helpful.
Just one other thing if I might.
It’s pretty clear that you’ve probably gotten some good traction building your brand with customers and certainly for a while the brand was attracting advisors.
Can you kind of give us maybe update on how the brand is positioned in the advisor world? Are you still kind of drawing people in the same way you were post financial crisis or has that moderated or how is the momentum I guess?  No.
Actually the momentum is good and we’ve ramped up our efforts last year the latter part of last year pipeline has built.
We started to even part of the increase in expenses.
We started to actually put our name out there in trades as recruiting.
We never did that before because we never recruited before.
So we sort of ramped up our advertising there.
We have a good pipeline as we said we’ve added 52 people in January which is our strongest probably ever productivity.
The people we’re adding is higher than it was.
Also just so we know the brand launch that we did the advertising and a number of research things that we’ve looked at it was the number one rated financial services ad in the quarter and it’s really hitting with the consumer.
So that’s why we want to continue it through the first quarter as well and then we’ll see where we go.
But Tommy Lee Jones in those ads are excellent for us; it’s telling our story and the retirement market is going to be here through this volatility and the need is going to be there.
So even though we can debate as you saw the results in profitability in the quarter I’m feeling more optimistic about that segment and business.
In the Asset Management business everything we put in place I feel good about everything that’s underlying that we have in place.
But having said that you saw the industry flows over the last year and there are only a few places where people are getting inflows that it’s usually a targeted area or a targeted fund or global bond or something like that.
It’s not in any large case across equities or large case across all areas.
Fixed income is starting to pick up again which is good.
We’re starting to push that a bit more as part of our focused sales.
So listen if the environment continues to stabilize and improve we’re in good shape.
Nothing has changed fundamentally from what I told you in November nor what I told you a year ago and I think we’ll continue to gain traction.
The one other thing I will tell you and don’t underestimate is the idea that we are freeing up more capital.
Our capital requirements are continuing to go down we’re continuing to work on those things even more including in our annuity business.
The decisions we made there we think were excellent in that regard and we’re going to continue to put some new products out that will continue to help that in more volatile environments.
So listen I think the markets will be the markets the environment is such quarter-to-quarter I can’t do your modeling but I would say that if you’re looking at this as an underlying strength in core investment I think we’re in good shape.
Our next question comes from Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
First question Walter just on your ROE guidance on slide 4 15% to 18% ROE accounting for the DAC change that implies a range of let’s just call it approximately 570 to 670 pretty broad range.
Is it safe to assume given what you’re telling us about Asset Management margins that you’re going to be at the very low end of that range? Or can you give a little bit of perspective about sort of the puts and takes there?  Can you help me Tom a little? When you said the 15 to 18 certainly what we said at the financial committee meeting but I didn’t catch the point about the 570.
Sure.
Walter I was calculating looking at what you’re adjustment on book value is going to be assuming some growth in book value throughout the year.
I’m just implying 570 would imply a 15 ROE a little over 670 would imply an 18 ROE.
So my question for you is very simply in lieu of what you’ve told us about Asset Management margins being below previous range is it fair to say that we should expect the absolute ROE for 2012 to be at the very low end of the range? Or can you just give us a little bit of sensitivity around expectation because that range is very wide.
Just any light you can shed on that just kind of broadly speaking.
Well actually the range is basically it’s the same as we had before is the 12% to 15% to 15% to 18%.
Again not forecasting here; certainly with the understanding as we just said the mix of the businesses and things of that; I believe that we’re certainly in a reasonable about the 15 and it’s again depending on what takes place we should be able to move into reasonable safe territory.
Again I just don’t want to forecast it but certainly I feel that making a statement that we’ll be in that range with these challenging events I think is a good statement.
So remember we’re still finalizing our EITF and going through there and from that standpoint so factors are coming in.
But the business shift is taking place and I think that we see a good trajectory to get us into those ranges.
And that’s why I said it in the comments.
That’s helpful.
So you feel like comfortably above 15 at this stage in the game?  We feel that we could go above the 15.
Sure.
The next question I had on the Asset Management margins is; is it fair to say that the reason you’re expecting kind of subdued margins at least relative to plan for this year is really just simply because you’re seeing no momentum on active equity management which is your [High Sea] business.
So when you are seeing recovery inflows it’s going into low-fee fixed income? Is it really just that simple at this point?  I think it’s actually (inaudible) what Jim is saying because as we know with the volatility that takes place in certainly we are driven more towards equity.
We are trying to evaluate the implication of that because when you get this much volatility we get reasonable share in to fixed income; the profitability for us is higher on the equity side.
So in these markets it’s certainly has not been as conducive.
So that I think is exactly where we are positioning.
And again it’s been extremely volatile.
Certainly as we indicated the rates have gone up 5% and you could start saying the world just takes off from here that’s great.
But that’s not what we’re seeing and it’s difficult to calibrate off that.
That’s exactly where it is.
As Jim said we are getting close and things of that nature.
But the issue is its mix and it’s really the volatility in the market.
Got it.
And then Jim last question just circling back on Advice &amp; Wealth Management.
I hear everything you said about the dampening impact of client funds moving into cash slowdown in client activity weighing on the margins in 4Q.
What have you seen? You talked a bit about what you seen thus are within Asset Management.
What have you seen in Advice &amp; Wealth Management so far year-to-date? Have you seen any kind of recovery in client activity in [shales] and have you seen any kind of mix shift moving back out of cash or is that still likely the pressure things into 1Q?  Well I think you got again two things.
One is you see an increasing back of fees again because the markets have recovered a bit.
And as I said we didn’t see people pull money we just didn’t see as much money continue to investments into the equity funds etcetera in the fourth quarter.
So I think if things continue to show what they’re showing we’ll start to see it move back.
I also believe that people today I mean I don’t think you’re going to see a spurt back in anything.
I think you could see some things happening across the industry where things have settled.
But I think it might take a little time for it to start to get back to more normalized in a sense.
Well I don’t even know what normalized is anymore; it’s more of how long are you in a more stable less volatile period for people to feel comfortable.
So January it’s early yet.
I really don’t even have all the information for January in for me to give you a better read.
I would just say on a fee basis it should be better because the markets have come back.
On a transaction basis I think it hasn’t gotten worse so I think it’s starting to stabilize and maybe it’ll start to improve if this continues.
But I think it’s still early in the quarter for me to give you a read.
Our last question comes from Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Jim I’d like to return first to Suneet’s question if the markets have been so volatile affecting retail activity and affecting willingness in people to invest in mutual funds as well as institutional flows.
And that was true all of 2011 and it has continued into 2012 why the change now? In other words again my thinking is if that was the case as of Investor Day so as of your financial community conference so what has happened between then and now that would lead you to revise downward admittedly for 2012 only your margin guidance for the or your thoughts on margin in the Asset Management business? What’s happened in the last few weeks is really what I’m asking?  So Eric I think you embedded two things.
One is some of the Retail things that I said and the Asset Management so let me separate the two.
First of all I do believe there was nice improvement last year in the level of client activity and engagements with the markets.
I think where we saw a fall-out earlier in the year in Europe that affected European flows in the Asset Management but didn’t really affect Retail flows here in the US in the AWM business.
That sort of changed when the market really collapsed in the third quarter and was collapsing.
So people don’t look at the first time it goes down they look at the added effect of that and then they start to pull back and get concerned but what if it went down another leg and fell from 1100 to 900 etcetera.
I think that’s what happened there.
I think if you look at all retailers across the industry that have reported you’ll find 15% down in dots or transactions or fee levels and I think many of them have commented.
So we’re not an outlier there.
We probably fall a little less but it takes us a little more to get back quickly based on just client activity.
But I don’t think we’re an outlier there at all.
I think you can see that if you just look at other people and what they’ve said in their reporting and what has been published on the industry.
In the Asset Management business as we looked at the numbers etcetera what we’re continuing to see is that there isn’t a big move into equity funds.
Now if that changes maybe based on what’s happening and settling in Europe.
But when you don’t get a lot more move into equity funds particularly in the Retail business that’s your higher-margin business and when you continue to add that up and also when you assume that and maybe it’s a wrong assumption on my part but I’m just assuming continued volatility that we saw last year.
So when you start to think that way it does impact your fees.
You can’t adjust your costs consistent with that up and down; you need to continue to drive forward.
So I think you’ll find that when you do that and you take some revenue out even though the market may end up higher you start to compress because you have a fixed expense base.
But given that Columbia with RiverSource now is such a broad and vast complex I would think you’d have sort of what some people have called an all-weather portfolio and that if customers don’t like equity well you have a broad portfolio of both municipal and taxable bond funds and I would think you would be seeing strong flows there and that you’d be okay.
That’ll be my last question.
Why are we seeing out flows in Retail is my last question.
You get my point.
Yeah Eric I would say last year we didn’t actually garner as much in the fixed income because we got really hit particularly in our tax exempt at the beginning part of the year for places like the US Trust business.
I think that’s starting to come back.
As I look at new sales coming in right now tax-exempt has picked up fixed income has picked up.
We’re selling and focused a lot about selling equity.
I think the wholesaling and distribution in the pipeline even institutional has shifted that now to balance that with more fixed income focus.
So exactly what you said occurred but we did not have that the way it was for the reasons that I just mentioned to you.
So yeah I think we will continue to gain flows there.
But when you gain flows in fixed income or an institutional fixed income you’ve got different margins than if it’s retail equity.
I’ll now turn it back to Mr.
Cracchiolo for closing remarks.
First of all I appreciate your questions today and also trying to better understand what’s happening underlying the business.
I’ll just leave you with this.
I think that as you look at our company and you look at the quarter but put the quarter in light of last year.
We had nice improvement in profitability in AWM.
We had nice improvement in profitability in Columbia and Asset Management with Threadneedle.
We have a continued strong and appropriate base for our annuity business.
We have managed risk quite well.
Our Protection business has come back where we were having some issues with the catastrophic losses in the auto and home and that has recovered.
We’re continuing and have made stronger investments in the business for future growth.
We also have put in place a stronger platform as you mentioned in the total of our Asset Management business.
So I can’t predict by quarter exactly what you’ll see but what I could say is that we’re building even a stronger foundation that we have all the capability and flexibility to ride out the markets.
I do believe over time our margins will continue.
I believe our earnings will continue to shift.
I believe our capital requirements will continue to come down.
The fourth quarter didn’t change anything along those lines.
The only thing I could probably say is that we probably didn’t think that the volatile market would affect things as much as it has but I think it did across the industry and I think you can compare it across the industry to see how that is consistent.
So with that in mind if you have any other questions or comments please call Alicia and Chad and we’ll try to follow-up with you.
But I’m just guarding against a continued environment that I can’t predict and I’m going to continue to make some changes in the company so that we can handle that quite well in the short term.
If the environment improves; and thinking about the equity markets continue to sort of stabilize and go up then we’re in great shape.
So I’m just guarding against this not being okay.
Have a great day and we’ll talk to further as the weeks go on.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the first quarter 2012 earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Alicia Charity.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial’s first quarter earnings call.
With me on the call today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we’ll be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the underlying performance of the company’s operations.
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today’s materials available on our website.
Some statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management’s expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today’s date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today’s earnings release our 2011 annual report to shareholders or our 2011 10K Report.
We undertake no obligation to update publically or to revise these forward-looking statements.
With that I’ll turn it over to Jim.
Thank you for joining us for our first quarter earnings discussion.
Let’s begin with my overview of the business performance in the quarter and then Walter will discuss our financial results in more detail.
Afterwards we’ll take your questions.
As we look at the quarter the business is performing well.
Fee based business growth is offsetting interest rate pressure and we continue to differentiate Ameriprise with our ability to return capital to shareholders.
The fundamentals of our business are good.
Client assets and retail flows are strong and we’re helping our clients manage through an unsettled economic environment.
While our clients are reentering the market a bit more in recent months they remain cautious and continue to prioritize capital preservation.
The markets while improved still present challenges.
US and European average equity markets were only up slightly compared to a year ago and the low interest rate effects on the industry were evident in our results as well.
On an operating basis for the quarter net revenues were up 1% to $2.5 billion EPS increased 9% to $1.45 and return on equity excluding AOCI rose to 16% from 14.9% a year ago.
Our balance sheet and capital remain among the strongest in the industry.
With our capital position we have the flexibility to both invest for business growth and return significant capital to shareholders.
During the quarter we returned 109% of our operating earnings to shareholders through share repurchases and higher dividends.
We continue to buy back our shares at a healthy pace with 5.4 million shares purchased in the quarter for $300 million.
Meanwhile we’ve been increasingly focused on raising our dividend as a portion of capital returned.
As part of our plan we declared another quarterly dividend increase yesterday boosting our quarterly dividend 25%.
Over the past 12 months we have announced three quarterly dividend increases which in total nearly doubled our dividend in a short period of time.
Our dividend growth now brings our implied dividend yield to approximately 2.6% which puts us in very good company.
In fact in terms of total capital returned to shareholders we are a leader among the S&amp;P 500 financials.
In 2011 we were in the top quintal of the S&amp;P financial companies for return of capital.
We returned almost three times the capital of the average company.
I feel very good about our capital position and our strategy to increase total shareholder return.
We’re generating strong free cash flow to reinvest in the business and return to shareholders.
We intend to return the majority of our earnings to shareholders annually and increase the mix between dividends and repurchases gradually as we maintain our capital strength and flexibility to navigate periods of economic and market stress.
Now let’s review our business segment performance.
First advice and wealth management; we’ve consistently invested in our advisory business transforming it into a powerful growth platform.
We’ve expanded both the earnings power and the profitability of the business by serving more mass affluent and affluent clients and growing advisor productivity.
Through our targeted growth investments we’ve set a nice springboard for our advisory business.
Our national television advertising presence continues and we were recently recognized with a David Ogilvy Award for excellence in advertising research.
This year we’ll complete our new brokerage platform implementation a significant technology project that we began over a year ago.
As we proceed through the next two quarters we expect to convert more than 6 000 advisors to the new platform with the related technology expenses wrapping up later this year.
We’re also having very good success recruiting experienced advisors with attractive books of business.
Advisors are increasingly attracted to the value we offer and the values we stand for.
During the quarter 117 experienced advisors joined Ameriprise which was one of our strongest recruiting quarters yet.
Combined with the excellent stability and satisfaction of our legacy advisors our advisor force is growing.
These initiatives are translating into solid business metrics.
We’re growing our core client base.
[Inaudible] net inflows were the strongest since before the financial crisis and retail client assets increased nicely to $334 billion at the end of the quarter.
We’re always focused on driving advisor productivity growth.
We finished last year at a record high and we’re not stopping there.
At the end of the first quarter advisor productivity is measured by operating net revenue per advisor was up 5% sequentially.
In terms of segment financial results our fee based business growth offset the very real impact of low interest rates.
As we reach year end our brokerage investments will be behind us which will provide some margin relief.
While I remain optimistic about the economic recovery we’re still operating in a fragile environment and limited by very low rates that will remain with us for quite some time.
However when rates eventually rise our advisory business will realize even greater earnings power.
Now I’ll move on to asset management.
Two years ago next week we acquired Columbia Management and began a large scale integration.
Today the integration is essentially complete.
We have outstanding talent and excellent business and global growth opportunities putting us in an attractive position going forward.
We ended the quarter with $463 billion in assets under management and offer broad and high performing product lines.
Our teams at Columbia and Thread Needle continue to produce good investment performance including strong fixed income performance and improved domestic and international equity results.
In fact five Columbia mutual funds recently received Lipper Fund Awards as top performers in their respective categories.
In terms of flows in the quarter we experienced $4.6 billion in net outflows that included $2.3 billion of Bank America 401K assets that we previously discussed.
We also experienced outflows in funds sub advised by third party and from planned retirement of one of our fund managers.
We have great confidence in the new team at the helm.
Adjusted for these components Columbia’s underlying retail funds would have been in net inflows.
Looking forward we expect additional outflows in the second quarter from Bank America’s 401K plan and the New York 529 plan.
Walter will walk you through these pieces.
Remember when we acquired Columbia we knew it would take time for the combined businesses to settle down and reestablish a new baseline.
I feel we’re nearing that point.
It’s important for you to see the underlying trends and why I’m confident about our asset management growth prospects for many reasons.
Our wholesaling and client service teams are gaining traction.
Our investment performance is strong reflected in our more than 110 four and five star Morningstar funds across Columbia and Threadneedle.
Columbia is generating retail net inflows in fixed income as well as net inflows in our focus funds and we’re picking up momentum at US Trust and in many of our key intermediary platforms.
Threadneedle is building good momentum with retail sales recovering nicely.
Our institutional win rate for finals remains very good and we continue to add to a strong new business pipeline.
Finally Columbia and Threadneedle are operating collaboratively to capture global growth opportunities.
When you look at our asset management business the key message is this we’re getting over the hump the business is nearing its new baseline from which we can build in the future.
Now I’ll move on to annuities and insurance.
The annuities business had a good quarter and continues to perform in line with our expectations both in terms of its financials and risk controls.
We offer our annuity products as income solutions not commodities.
They are critical retirement products and since we focus ourselves through our advisors we know our clients better.
The business is generating good returns and we’re able to grow the business prudently.
In terms of metrics variable annuity net inflows in the Ameriprise channel were $333 million down slightly from a year ago considering we increased rider fees to better balance the economics of the product and we announced a new variable annuity with living benefits which utilizes a managed volatility fund.
With regard to fixed annuities we remain in net outflows because of the rate environment.
In protection we have good books of business that generate solid earnings and provide steady contributions to our diversified business.
Our life and health products are instrumental in fulfilling the comprehensive needs of our clients.
We have strong underwriting and have built a stable book with $191 billion in life insurance in force.
The industry has faced a difficult operating environment over the past several years however we’re starting to see a pickup in new business driven by our new universal life insurance product.
In the auto and home business we go to market as a low cost provider to the mass affluent.
While the auto and home business experienced significant weather related claims last year the business results have returned to more normal levels.
We’re generating solid growth and profits in the quarter and our policy counts were up a steady 7%.
I feel good about the risk characteristics and the returns in our insurance and annuity businesses.
Overall Ameriprise continues to be in a strong position and we’re making good consistent progress in executing our strategy and helping people gain confidence in their financial future.
The economy in the United States is slowly recovering and while investors have started to return to the market they remain cautious as they try to achieve decent returns in this low growth environment.
The continued low interest rate environment creates challenges and the regulatory environment is evolving.
At Ameriprise we’re very conscious about the operating environment and its effect on our revenues and we rely on our expense discipline to offset revenue pressure.
We remain focused on realizing the benefits of our reengineering program to fund growth investments and help contribute to the bottom line.
As I shared in my opening Ameriprise is performing well.
Our business remains strong and diversified.
We will continue to invest appropriately to capture future growth opportunities.
We’re delivering good returns while generating significant free cash flow and we’re differentiating the company with our strong client focus capital strength flexibility and ability to return capital to shareholders.
Now I’ll turn it over to Walter.
I wanted to start by providing some context for our results in the quarter.
While markets improved on a sequential basis on a year-over-year basis we did not get much lift from the equity markets as the S&amp;P was up only 3% on average.
The weighted equity index which is weighted to our products was up just 1% and is more reflective of the impact of markets on our results.
We also continue to experience significant headwinds from a rate perspective.
You can see on page four how this impacted results on a year-over-year basis.
Operating net revenues were up slightly while operating EPS was up 9% in the quarter reflecting the impact of prior year share repurchases.
Underlying business fundamentals were strong.
As Jim outlined we are seeing good traction on the business metrics that should translate into future business growth.
Our operating results in the first quarter reflected the impact of a low rate operating environment and a higher operating effective tax rate as well as continued investments for growth initiatives and strong execution of our capital management programs.
As we told you in Q3 we were anticipating lower pre-tax earnings of $55 million from the impact of low interest rates in 2012.
Based on this number which could increase we realized more than 60% in the first quarter.
We had modest operating growth reflecting the continued headwinds from low interest rates in both advice and wealth management and in annuities.
Total operating expense growth was 1% as higher expenses from growth initiatives in brand technology and experience advisor recruiting were offset by lower expenses in variable annuities from [inaudible] reversion and model enhancements.
Overall expenses remained well controlled.
Let’s go to the next slide.
Operating earnings and EPS increased by 9% and 11% respectfully in the quarter.
This sequential improvement was due to equity market improvement limited incremental interest rate impact and lower expenses.
We also began realizing initial benefits from our reengineering initiatives.
Turning to operating return on equity we also had good progression up 110 basis points to 16% versus a year ago.
We achieved this through a combination of earnings growth as well as capital redeployment.
Our balance sheet remains strong due to our continued focus on enterprise risk management.
Our investment portfolio is high quality with only $6 million of impairments in the quarter.
As we have said we have no holdings of sovereign debt in financially troubled European countries.
We ended the quarter with over $2 billion of excess capital.
Our RBC ratio is approximately 525% and our hedge program remains effective.
We continue to return capital to shareholders at a strong pace as you can see on Slide Seven.
We paid out 109% of earnings to shareholders this quarter through a combination of share repurchase and dividends.
As Jim indicated in 2011 we were in the top 20% of the S&amp;P 500 financials in total return of capital to shareholders.
This is from our strong excess capital and free cash flow generation.
Based on this strong position we announced yesterday our decision to increase the quarterly dividend by 25%.
Over the past 12 months we have announced three dividend increases which represent a 94% increase on a cumulative basis.
Going forward we plan to return the majority of our earnings to shareholders gradually increasing the mix between dividends and repurchases.
Turning to segment results advice and wealth management demonstrated good progress in key business metrics.
We had the strongest quarter for wrap net inflows since the financial crisis.
We recruited more experienced advisors than we have since 2009 and we continued to have strong advisor retention and productivity.
However we continue to face headwinds from the interest rate environment which impacted year-over-year earnings by $11 million.
We’re continuing to make investments that position us for strong growth in the future building our brand and the experience advisors and transitioning our advisors to a new brokerage platform.
As we look to the end of the year the brokerage platform expenses will begin to taper off and you will also start to see the benefit of our expense reengineering efforts.
However in the current quarter this elevated level of expense combined with headwinds of a low interest rate environment pressured earnings and margins.
We are comfortable that we are making the right investments for the longer term.
Margins improved sequentially and if markets remain at current levels we will be able to drive gradual margin improvement.
Margin expansion results from improvement in revenues from increased asset levels which should benefit from our successful experience advisor recruiting.
Expense controls and reengineering will also improve margins.
Turning to asset management here we are feeling the impact from outflows we experienced last year.
This is particularly evident in the retail channel at Columbia where AUM is down 2% from last year.
This is driving 4% lower operating revenues and is pressuring earnings and margins.
On a sequential basis earnings improved in line with higher markets if you exclude the CDO gain from the fourth quarter.
We’re encouraged by early indicators.
Retail flows have improved which I will detail shortly.
Importantly expenses remain well controlled.
Performance a lean indicator of future flows remains strong and improved this quarter across both equity and fixed income style funds at both Columbia and Threadneedle.
Turning to flows we are seeing a number of dynamics impacting results.
Former parent outflows are within expectation with a total of approximately $2.3 billion this quarter in retail and $300 million in institutional.
Like the industry we’re seeing strong inflows for fixed income and facing headwinds in equity funds.
This trend is compounded by a concentration of equity funds that are sub advised where we have seen outflows over the past few quarter due to weak performance.
The remaining Columbia retail assets have inflows of $200 million even after over $900 million of outflows related to the retirement of a portfolio manager.
While this plan did result in a few large clients moving their assets.
Institutional flows at Columbia were challenging.
While we are seeing some inflows from our growing pipeline in the third party channel we had large outflows in portfolios that we sub advise and $500 million due to the portfolio manager retirement I previously mentioned.
At Threadneedle retail flows were strong though we did see some pullback in the first quarter that leads us to believe that retail flows may not be as strong in the second quarter.
In institutional we saw $800 million of outflows primarily from Zurich which is consistent with our prior periods.
I wanted to provide an update on the former parent related end of our outflows at Columbia that were discussed in February when we told you that we anticipated about $9 billion of outflows in 2012 with the specific timing a bit unclear.
In the first quarter we had $2.4 billion of former parent outflows.
In the second quarter we expect an additional $5 billion of outflows at Columbia from the about $9 billion we previously identified.
In Q2 we expect $2.2 billion of former parent 401K outflows $500 million of outflows from [Balboa] as well as the previously announced loss of the New York 529 program.
While we completed the Zurich owned asset retender last year Zurich’s pension assets which we currently manage are being retendered and we’re participating in this process.
We may seek some outflows as they seek to diversify managers.
Turning to annuities we had good earnings growth driven by variable annuities offset by the expected decline in fixed annuities.
Variable annuity operating earnings increased 34% to $133 million pre-tax and included $30 million of benefits from new reversion and model enhancements over last year offset by $8 million in impact from interest on fixed accounts.
We will be introducing a new variable annuity product in May and initial feedback from advisors indicate that it is being well received.
For fixed annuities operating earnings declined 23% year-over-year to $56 million reflecting the anticipated decline in spreads as well as the gradually shrinking block of business.
On a sequential basis earnings were flat adjusting for an unfavorable EIA adjustment of $8 million in the fourth quarter.
Turning to protection life and health operating earnings declined year-over-year primarily from long term care claims and lower investment income from the dividends paid to the parent.
Auto and home fundamentals and profitability are back to historical levels.
We are growing auto and home business with 7% policy growth and we are seeing good traction with our Infinity partners.
In closing we delivered solid financial results in the quarter and we are continuing to see improvement in our business fundamentals.
Our investment in growth initiatives and reengineering should drive benefits throughout the year.
Our balance sheet is strong and we remain committed to returning capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
With that we will open it up to your questions.
(Operator Instructions)  Your first question comes from Andrew Kligerman – UBS.
A couple of question on asset management; back in November I think the pre-tax margin was targeted at about 23% but then earlier in the year of 2012 you dialed it down to about 20% to 21% and what we saw this quarter was 18.4% so are you still confident we could see 20% to 21% by the end of the year?  And maybe just a little color around that? I think we are expecting that we’ll be in that range.
We do see that some of the reengineering that we were talking about before will start taking hold and also we’ll start getting some revenue margin improvement as we progress through the year.
So we do see that as achievable yes.
Then just as I looked at assets under management it was $344 billion up sequentially versus the last quarter about 5.5% which is a nice move and the revenue line at $711 million was up about 1% and I think maybe last quarter you had a CDO gain of about $11 million so that would have been an extra 1% this quarter.
But do you think you’ll get the pickup in revenue commensurate with those AUM as we move into the second quarter? Yes I think we will and there’s a couple of things as you look through it.
Obviously there’s been a shift to more fixed income which has certainly affected that and we’re beginning to see hopefully that trend line moving back which will give us higher yield.
Also as you mentioned the CDO gain certainly on a sequential basis it increased the management fee basis points.
Also we had some losses on our alternatives which is certainly a high profit aspect that performance is improving and we’ll see that hopefully start improving there.
And we are reengineering not just on the expense looking at the revenue line too so we think the prospects are good there.
Then just lastly on a consolidated basis sequentially expenses general and admin were about $775 million barely up from the fourth quarter.
You talked about a lot of different moving parts but it sounds like you could even keep expenses pretty flattish during the year and maybe even get down after you stop investing in brokerage IT at the end of the year.
Is that the right way to look at it? We’re certainly controlling the expenses as we’ve indicated and certainly as we look at the circumstances we’re cognoscente of the margins so we are managing the expenses and we have as Jim said put in place a reengineering effort.
We always have one but we certainly have accelerated some of that which will start taking a hold.
I’m not going to give you a number we’re going to be flat and up because that will change as we said what we allow goes to the bottom line or not depending on the circumstances but certainly we’re very focused on the G&amp;A line.
Your next question comes from John Nadel – Sterne Agee.
I just wanted to follow up a little bit on the margin and I guess more specifically on the fee rate and I know Walter in response to Andrew’s question you were just talking a little bit about the fixed income versus equities maybe some positive impact moving forward from some improvement at the alternative or the hedge funds but the fee rate if I look at management fees in asset management that came down a lot from what was a more recent trend maybe three or four basis points lower than we’ve seen and that’s a pretty meaningful driver.
I mean should we expect that that bounces right back up to the trended levels that we saw last year or is there some reason we should expect that that remains somewhat pressured? Well there’s a couple of things happening.
First as we merge funds as we indicated we would have revenue denigration from that of one or two basis points and that has occurred and that was what was in our discussion.
So that’s what you see taking place because it worked its way through.
As Andrew mentioned we had the CDO gains certainly looking at the fourth quarter which certainly distorted the revenue mix and margin in the fourth quarter and that was fairly substantial.
That was also a disclosed item.
And we had a fee day shift between the first quarter last year and this year there’s a differential of one day each.
Now as it relates to it we do see that it should start improving as I explained because we do believe that we will hopefully start seeing that mix of equities portion going up and starting to get a better return on that and the alternative is performing better and the reengineering I do believe will start giving us benefits as we get towards the latter part of 2012.
So I think it’s not going to immediately bounce but certainly I think we’re on a good trend line.
Then just maybe shifting to advice and wealth management you know there’s a lot of moving parts you’ve got the timing of some of the expense coming off from the brokerage platform and implementation you’ve got some higher cost obviously with some better experienced advisor recruiting.
I’m just trying to get a sense if we could revisit the 12% margin target for advice coming in just shy of 10% this quarter is that 12% margin target for 2012 and I believe it was a full year target is that something that you still view as achievable and  how do we get there? Yes you’re correct it was a full year target and as you saw we increased nicely sequentially.
I do believe as we look at the trajectory of the expenses as Jim indicated we certainly were in the midst of our advertising launch and we will still continue to advertise we’ll obviously gage that.
The brokerage platform will trail off in the fourth quarter as I indicated on that investment side and it is a good thing on the EAR we are certainly attracting as my comments and Jims about high quality EAR and also the number so that does get an initial expense.
Hopefully that will continue actually I think that will be a good thing.
But I do believe with the combination of events that we see and starting to get benefits from the EARs coming in that the 12% is definitely achievable.
It’s not a walk in the part but it certainly is achievable.
And to the extent that there’s a shortfall there versus that 12% it sounds like maybe the experienced advisor recruiting is going better than you expected and I’d have to imagine from a sort of decision making longer term decision making perspective you’d take that trade off right?  You’d take those higher expenses this year and maybe modest margin shortfall to grow your experienced advisor counts? I agree with you it’s a high class problem.
Your next question comes from Alexander Blostein – Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
Just one more follow up on expenses.
Walter I appreciate your comments on reengineering and a couple of moving pieces there but if you look at the G&amp;A up sequentially is the $750 this quarter do you think this is kind of a high watermark and from here the G&amp;A line should at least stay flat or at least trend a little down or is there room still I guess for that number to go up as you guys implement different initiatives? We have the capability to manage the number and as I’ve indicated we have instituted programs and you will see that reengineering build.
The question then is what we do with it as we look at the market and the opportunities so I don’t want to forecast on a particular number but certainly with the elements we said we’re driving through the launch of the advertising program the brokerage platform and the EAR expense those are elements that we’re concentrating on but we are managing the other aspects of it but we will then gage how much we will potentially allow some of that to flow through the bottom line then or be invested.
But we’ll have to gage the situation but certainly we have the ability to manage the expenses within the ranges that you’re talking about.
Shifting gears a little bit on the capital management obviously very strong returns here again and Jim to your point you guys raised the dividend a number of times in the last year so considering your comments with the majority of earnings still being paid out on a quarterly basis do you think another dividend is possible?  Not to get overly greedy here but towards the end of the year and how you balance that versus the buybacks? We’ll we clearly are looking to return to shareholders.
We feel we are in a very good situation to do that based on the mix of businesses and the free cash that we’re generating and as we saw last year we know that dividends have become a more important vehicle for our investors at this point in time so we want to continue to gage that.
Of course we’re looking at what may come in the future with tax rates and other things so we don’t want to get too far out on the curve but as you saw we’re very open to continue.
What we’ve tried to do since we became a public company was increase our dividend every year and there’s only one year we missed on that which was right at the heat of the financial crisis.
But we didn’t cut our dividend we maintained everything and as you saw we came back quickly with buybacks.
But we think dividends are an important part of the return back formula and will be possibly even more important so we will keep an eye towards that to continue to look for potential increases but we’ll also evaluate what’s appropriate for what investors may be interested in.
Than just one last one for me on flows could you guys comment on the AUM I guess and the value under structured fund where you had a senior PM retire how much of AUM you think is potentially still at risk or if you could kind of look at the client dial with the new team do you think the majority of those outflows are behind us or you could see a little more trickle in to the second quarter? I think you all understand that it’s always hard to predict.
The gentleman retiring Dave Williams was a long term PM as part of the US Trust business originally when Bank America acquired it so he had a very good following.
I think his fund even over the long haul had excellent performance.
It did suffer over the last two years a bit based on his investment style and that’s coming back and came back towards the latter part of the year.
But having said that sometimes assets flow when the PM changes.
We have an excellent PM and team that was part taking over for Dave a Guy Pope.
We feel very good about his ability to continue the longer term performance that Dave did have there over the long term.
But having said that sometimes those are lumpy.
As an example in the first quarter we had a big out in one of the sub advised $500 000 because of that change.
So I can’t predict what may continue in the second quarter.
Having said that we have a good team there a good manager people recognize Guy Pope’s performance etc.
so we’re hoping that will improve and sustain the business but there may be a few other lumpiness based on model changes.
But that was one of the things that impacted us in the first quarter.
(Operator Instructions)  Your next question comes from Jay Gelb – Barclays Capital.
Could you update us on your view on M&amp;A potential including The Hartford has its broker/dealer operation on the block?  Just whether you have general or specific comments? Well I think in general in M&amp;A we thought at the latter part of last year there may be some properties coming out that we might have some interest in.
Having said that as we reviewed through those various properties etc.
it was less for what we thought as we move forward was appropriate for us.
I think there will be some things that come out we don’t think they’re significant.
You mentioned the broker/dealer out of Hartford.
I think that’s a smaller opportunity and I can’t comment on it.
I don’t have the information on that at this point in time but what I would say is we’ll continue to look at things that may be appropriate for us but we don’t see anything large on the horizon per say that in some way would change what we’ve just discussed with you as far as our strategy and return to shareholders etc.
But if there are some opportunities even if smaller that fit in neatly that wouldn’t jeopardize our strategy and where we’re moving we’ll look at them and see if they’re appropriate for us that would give us some additional value.
Our next question was on the impact from interest rates.
Walter I believe you mentioned that at the outset of the year you were looking at a $55 million impact from lower interest rates but it seemed that you were thinking that could have upside? I think certainly the forward curve took that away and pronouncements from the Fed and there certainly does change that trajectory and as we indicated I think I indicated something like $35 million of incremental after tax interest expense which is something like $55 pre and we actually had the majority of that hit us in the first quarter as we talked about because of the compare.
Obviously as we go through 2012 and compare it with that changes that took place in 2011 the implication year-over-year will become less but the majority of that came through in the first quarter.
I believe right now in the short term and everything it’s just going to be certainly tough going for a while with the rates staying where they are and certainly the rates on the long end certainly are not going to get much better.
Anyway to size the impact for the full year? I’d say right now my guess is it’s going to be higher than $55.
Not significantly higher but certainly it could be 10% to 15% higher even 20%.
10% to 15%? Higher than the $55 so say a maximum $15 million or something like that.
Your next question comes from Eric Berg – RBC Capital Market.
My question involves asset management what I’m trying to reconcile is this you had very good performance as evidenced by the large number and percentage of funds that are four and five star performance improved markedly in the March quarter versus the December quarter you mentioned the strength of and the size of your wholesaling team.
I guess my question is given all that why can’t you control these outflows whether it’s 529 the pension plan at Zurich the retirement assets – you have a very strong person in Guy Pope is performance is indeed well known given the strengths that you have sited and the fact that you were looking at all these things why can’t these outflows be limited if not prevented given your strengths? I think Eric let me try and answer that in two ways so you can understand a little of why I’m feeling more optimistic as we move forward based on what we created here.
As we look at the underlying flows in core fixed income funds now as well as in equity funds we actually are gaining share.
We actually were in inflows.
We’re actually in many of the large intermediaries where we are focused on picking up business.
Having said that I think flows in general in equities are still weak they haven’t come back in full flavor so you’re not going to see big appetite for big increases in that but we are gaining traction so I see that.
We’re gaining traction because we have good product with good performance and now we’ve reestablished our wholesaling.
Now in the items that you mentioned I think they’re all in particular.
So first of all we’re going through a major change by acquiring Bank America’s business it was a proprietary in house business and so some of the stuff you’re going to lose over time is there may have been a reason that they had the business in house.
Take their 401K and pension it was all with Columbia so you’re going to have a change there.
Take American Express when we separated we used to manage their muni bond for their traveler’s checks so again we had an agreement to continue that but when that’s up at one point that gets reevaluated in a similar basis.
Zurich is a perfect example they retended and everything they went to competitive bids and we won all of those client portfolios.
Having said that for their own pension plan you know again Threadneedle managed all of that and now they’re looking at whether they take pieces out.
I think those things are going to naturally come up based on a change in ownership and philosophy and other things.
So I don’t see that as abnormal you’ve got to get over the hump but what I’ve created with the combination of these two gives us great potential.
It’s a great platform I think it’s very competitive with the majors out there for a lot of reasons.
529 another particular; we no longer worked with one of the providers that were actually doing the type of the client service activity with New York.
It was a decision made prior to us taking the combined unit from Columbia and that sort of played out.
Maybe we would have did things a little differently knowing that it was a more profitable business than at the time Columbia or Bank of America thought it was.
So we are making changes as we go along we’re adjusting sort of our focus on various things but with a change comes change.
Dave Williams retiring a long term PM we know in the industry sometimes even if you put a good team that can get that performance where we need it once a change occurs it gets reevaluated for due diligence or other reasons.
I do believe as we go through the next quarter or so we’ll get over the hump of these major items that comes with a deal of this size and a merger of this size but what we have underneath I still feel good about.
I would tell you differently if I felt differently but I think as I speak to the people and the teams and the leaders and the people on the ground they feel we’re gaining traction and to be very honest you can look at our performance it’s good.
There’s still some pockets that continue to need improvement.
We all want every fund to be where we need it to be so there’s still work in some areas but overall I think we’ve got a good fund line up now and it does take a little time to gain back that traction.
Nothing has changed maybe you just have to extend it a bit more because the lumpiness you hope ends sooner.
As Walter said it is two years now in the month of May and so I think for size and scope and going through the market volatility that we have I think we’re in really good shape.
Look at the foundation of what we created in the asset management business I think it’s tremendous compared to where we used to be.
<i></i> One quick one for Walter; Walter you indicated repeatedly in your prepared remarks that – I think you said that the transition of the advisors to the new platform and the money being spent on that transition will be completed by the end of this year.
Could you quantify the savings that will appear as a result? I prefer not because candidly it’s getting into systems and everything like that but it has an impact.
It certainly will have an impact because it’s a huge investment to put that sort of a platform in as you can imagine and we are incurring the expense and like I said it will go in conversion by the third quarter and it’s reasonably impactful it really is.
I prefer not to get into specific numbers.
I think what I can add is when we talk about this implementation it’s not just the technology development that’s a piece of it.
What we really have is the increased expense right now is as you’re going through a conversion you’re carrying two systems one is live that you just made live and the other one is the continuation of your old platform until you convert all the accounts.
So you have a duplicate operating expense there.
The second thing is you have a lot of additional servicing cost as you’re going through account conversion and getting people up and moving all the data and information and the client activities.
It’s a combination of three components one is the technology development the other one is the training and the support costs for the conversion and service delivery and then with that you have the two operating systems that you carry.
So as we convert we have one occurring in May and one in August and then after that we can start to turn off the other system.
We could then with that bring down a lot of the training cost etc.
and unwind that and the third thing is the development starts to get a lot less.
You still have ongoing development but it’s not as material as we’re hooking up all of the various systems to get that new operating system online.
So it’s a material amount per quarter in a combination of those factors that will go away.
Your next question comes from Thomas Gallagher – Credit Suisse Securities.
Just one follow up on Eric’s question Walter so the 12% margin on advice and wealth with those expenses going away from the new platform would you be at the 12% with that going away or is there more heavy lifting that you need to do on either the revenue or the expense side? It’s a combination.
Obviously we will have the majority of that expense sticking through the third quarter so it will be embedded.
When I said that we will achieve it our assumption was that that expense would be there.
So it would be a combination certainly of other expense items that we’re managing because those are the expenses we’re making in the business and obviously the revenue pick up so that’s already embedded in the number for this year when I said we have a pretty good shot at getting to the 12%.
So I guess my question is by 4Q when this expense goes away a) is it going to go away completely so are we going to see sort of a cliff on the cost meaning the cost going down meaningfully and if we fast forward to that eventuality and we kind of pro forma it on this quarter’s revenues would we be close to the 12% margin level? Again as Jim said there’s so many moving parts as it relates to that aspect of it and again I’ll remind you it is a major system and once the system is fully implemented we will then start the amortization aspect of it.
But certainly there will be a differential.
I think what we’re saying let me just try to be very focused on your question one is it does assume that revenue continues to improve as we drive greater productivity as well as improvements in our asset levels etc.
which is ongoing so we’re not looking at anything what we would call radical from where we are but a continued progression as you saw in the first quarter.
Second would be that as Walter said we’re managing other expenses and reengineering during this time frame to bring down some expenses that will offset the expense that we had in the first quarter but we will get relief as we go into the fourth quarter for some of that wind down occurring in this system.
With that in mind that the margin if you just project it out from where we are would have to be higher in the fourth quarter than the 12% you got 12% for the full year based on a combination of those factors occurring.
So the fact that you’re giving us this glide path suggestions margin by 4Q needs to be substantially about 12% to come up with the average of 12% for the year? Yes because the expense is embedded in for three quarters so on that basis it would have to be.
Now just another question on that how much of this overall program is being expensed kind of on a real time basis and how much is being capitalized? There is obviously from the standpoint of the enhancements and the training those are being expensed.
So from that standpoint there is a significant amount of this that is being in the period charge basis with again as we implement the system and the changes related to that that is the portion that will be pushed forward.
The development expense gets capitalized and amortized but we’re carrying two operating systems that there’s operating expenses period.
All the conversion costs all the training costs all of that is period charge.
Is there any way to quantify how much?  Is it half and half half percent being capitalized half percent being expensed in the current period just in terms of absolute costs? Again I don’t want to give you an amount because each project is different depending on the intensity so I would prefer not to give it because like I said each project depends on how much is really for development versus how much is for implementation.
Off the top of my head I don’t have the exact numbers on that.
The amortization is a smaller part of what we’re talking about this point as we move forward.
Okay I just wanted to be clear on that that we’re not back loading a lot of it.
We’re definitely not back loading.
The last question I had is just going back to John Nadel’s question about the revenue yield and how that declined even after backing out the CDO impact.
I guess Walter when I heard you mention the fund mergers being an issue I can understand that.
Was there a big delta from 4Q to 1Q because I thought the fund mergers were mainly behind us?  If I just look at what happened from 4Q11 to 1Q2012 because the thing that stood out to me was the fact that your equity assets went up markedly and I do sort of back of the envelope calculation your equity assets went up by $20 billion or so on average from 4Q to 1Q so you would expect that your revenue yield wouldn’t have declined as much.
Anyway any light you can shed on that would be helpful.
Between sequential you really do have a fee day differential which is one part of it.
The gain on the CDO is really a big part and you’re getting as the mergers came through they hit their full stride basically starting in the first quarter and so I would say those are the elements.
Also on the alternative you’re getting the full impact coming through.
But it’s really the two big items are the fee day that’s less and the gain on the CDO and that swings most of it.
Your next question comes from Jeffrey Schuman – Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> I was wondering if we could talk a little bit more specifically about advertising?  If we go back a quarter I think on the fourth quarter call you indicated at that point that you had very good visibility about the first quarter ad spend was largely determined.
So now that we’re down the road I’m guessing you have pretty clear visibility on the second quarter spend.
I mean either you’ve produced some new commercials and have bought time or you haven’t.
Can you give us a little bit better look into what second quarter advertising spend might look like please? As we looked it from last year we clearly knew as we were going into the first quarter what we were thinking of spending and we bought various space that you buy sometimes in the spot market but sometimes up front to get better positioning.
So clearly as we spoke about with you at the beginning of the end of last year we did look at the first two quarters of what we were planning to spend and we have been consistent with that in actual spending.
So we do have our ads running now through April and some part of May.
Now we will go off and lighten up and just use more of some web activity in through the interim period and then we will come back with our advertising as we did last year in the September time frame through the end of the year.
Now with that as I look at the rest of the year I have the ability for the second half as Walter said to determine what I would like to spend in that regard.
Now the positives for us and the reason we’re spending or we did is because our advertising is really hitting a positive note.
It is a positive for us both with our advisor channel with clients etc.
and so we do think that we’re generating value from that as a top line awareness for our advisor and client activity.
So we will review that but having said that if we find that we’re going into tough markets or we find that revenue will be squeezed tremendously we have the ability to scale back what we want to do in the media.
Having said that we think we have a good campaign.
We’re looking to continue that campaign but we’ll manage the activities.
The one thing you will not see is because we do both top line advertising as well as below the line marketing and other activities we do have ability to manage some of that activity and use different levers in a sense of what we want to put more emphasis on.
So you’re not going to see an increase over last year as we go through the rest of the year particularly in the fourth quarter as we launched the new campaign.
On the other side we may want to continue that advertising if it does give us some benefits depending on market conditions as well as how we’re doing in the rest of the business.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Just one follow up can you give us just a rough sense of how the ad spend typically hits the segment?  Does a lot of it in advice and wealth management or where does it generally hit? Our advertising right now – first of all you’ve got marketing advertising and what we do at the web etc.
so everything we think is directly attributed to the AWM business we do charge to the AWM business.
There’s some of the advertising that’s for corporate and that goes over to the corporate area.
But as we said depending on what we’re focused on what we’re communicating etc.
it either is explicitly tied so for instance direct [search] paid [search] various things go directly and including national advertising there’s a good portion that goes to the AWM business.
Your last question comes from John Hall – Wells Fargo Securities.
Jim I just wanted to follow up on the dividend and capital management a little bit.
Is there a payout ratio that you’re aiming for or shooting for? We look at various things in that.
I think what we would probably say is we’re more focused on looking at how much of our earnings that we’re going to give back to shareholders.
As we said we’re looking to do a majority of that as we look at the next number of years etc.
right now based on our position and our capital strength our ability to generate good strong free cash flow.
As far as the dividend we wanted to continue to sort of boost that from where we had started originally and so we feel good that we’re in the two plus range and so we’re going to continue to look at the growth of our dividends over time but we’re not going to manage it to an exact yield rate because of the changes in the market and the stock price and various things.
It’s always hard because sometimes you’re over and then you don’t want to raise the dividend and sometimes you’re back.
We’re looking more for steady improvements and generating a reasonably good yield for the type of company that we are and in the industry or across the S&amp;P 500 financials.
So that’s more of how we’re looking at it rather than a set yield rate.
In response to Jay’s question you sounded a little bit more conservative on the outlook for M&amp;A and the like and I guess in that context you’ve got a lot of excess capital you’ve got a lot of cash that you’re holding that represents some sort of earnings drag if the M&amp;A environment is not as vibrant as it might be what’s the need for hanging on to so much excess capital and so much cash? Again we don’t look at it as purely a current need per say.
So if opportunities come along I’m not saying we’re out of the M&amp;A market but what I’m saying is we don’t see of the things that are out there anything significant that would be a very large undertaking for us in thinking about using all of our capital versus returning and maintaining a good position depending on market volatility that’s out there.
We’re always going to look to maintain a good strong capital structure.
We hope that you as looking at us in that light based on the types of volatility that these one in 100 year events that keep on occurring every year we want to make sure we don’t have to go to the capital markets in any fashion.
But having said that we don’t want to be overly conservative which is why last year we returned $1.7 billion of capital.
So there are periods we will probably increase the return and there are periods that maybe some smaller acquisitions may come along so that’s all we’re saying is it’s not so much I’m negative on M&amp;A I’m not.
We thought there might be larger ones that might be more important for us coming to light at the end of last year we haven’t seen that in this sense and so I’m just giving you a signal in that regard as well.
But we’re not stopping M&amp;A from occurring if there are good things that come along I’m just saying to you that we feel very good about our return of capital to shareholders as one of our priorities right now.
Just my final clean up question here has to do with the outflows that you anticipate in the second quarter the $4.7 billion identified on Slide 11.
Do you have any sense of timing in the context of the quarter?  Is this out at the beginning of the quarter or at the end or roughly on average across it? I can’t tell you exactly.
I would say we were expecting this to probably come out in the May timeframe which is sort of the middle of the period.
But again that’s not a perfect science but I think based on what I was aware sometime in the May timeframe.
Mr.
Cracchiolo I will return the call back over to you for closing remarks.
I want to thank everyone for listening to us this morning and for your questions and any other thoughts you have in your conversations with Alicia and Chad.
Very clearly again I just want to emphasize that based on a combination of factors both from a business as well as an environmental we do feel good about our position we feel good about the traction that we have and the improvements that we’re making.
Having said that we will experience being in the businesses that we’re in some level of adjustments from quarter-to-quarter a little lumpiness as we’re getting over with the Columbia transaction hopefully going to be more behind us than in the middle of which will occur over the next quarter or so.
So yeah we’ve got another lumpy quarter to get through in flows but I would still say that we have good underlying improvements in our business.
I think we have a great foundation that we built.
I think our AWM business again market climate isn’t great for robust trading activity and large investments but you can see some of the underlying metrics are strong for us and we have a really healthy annuity and insurance business.
I do believe that we’re in more of the better end of that slice of the pie for where we’re participating.
I think the combination of those things gives us a very good company and gives us that appropriateness that we can return well to shareholders and so we will continue to execute against our strategy.
Quarter-to-quarter it’s not perfect science of where you’re going to come in but I think look at us over the last eight quarters four quarters look at us in total of what we’ve created over the last two years and where we’ve come from and I think you’ll find a good consistent story even though quarter-to-quarter it won’t be a perfect science.
Thank you for both your interest as well as your questions and your comments and we look forward to continuing to have the conversation with you as we go forward.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the second quarter 2012 earnings call.
My name is Kim and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Alicia Charity.
Ms.
Charity you may begin.
Thank you and welcome to Ameriprise Financial’s Second Quarter Earnings call.
With me on the call today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we’ll be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the underlying performance of the Company’s operations.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today’s materials available on our website.
Some statements that we make in this call may be forward-looking reflecting management’s expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today’s date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today’s earnings release our 2011 annual report to shareholders or our 2011 10-K report.
We undertake no obligation to update publicly or to revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it over to Jim.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for our second quarter earnings discussion.
I’ll begin with my overview of our business performance for the quarter and then Walter will discuss our financial results in more detail.
Afterwards we’ll take your questions.
As we reported yesterday our headline operating results were impacted by a few items the largest of which relates to taxes in prior periods.
Walter will explain these in more detail.
If you exclude these items EPS and return on equity would have been up nicely.
Overall results in the quarter were solid despite the challenging market conditions and low interest rates that continue to pressure revenue levels which you are seeing across financial firms; and as you would expect we are adjusting our expense levels to reflect this decline.
We’re making good progress executing our strategy in helping our clients navigate a difficult market environment.
Our business fundamentals are sound with solid traction in our advisory business good client acquisition and strong retail net flows.
In asset management we’ve completed our integration of Columbia Management and together with Threadneedle have a global platform with strong performance and expanded distribution.
In protection annuities we maintained good books of business with strong risk management and underwriting.
We continue to manage expenses prudently and our balance sheet and capital management underpin our firm.
Meanwhile we have the flexibility to invest for business growth and return significant capital to shareholders while maintaining the flexibility afforded by our free cash flow and large excess position.
During the quarter we devoted $428 million to share repurchases and dividends.
With the increased dividend we announced last quarter our dividend yield is about 2.9% which is at the higher end of our peer group.
In fact over the past six quarters we’ve returned more than 130% of our operating earnings to shareholders putting us in the top quintile of financial companies in the S&amp;P 500.
Now let’s review our business segment performance.
First advice and wealth management – we generated nice improvements in profitability in the quarter considering the market headwinds.
Total retail client assets increased 4% year-over-year to $331 billion aided by strong client net inflows in the quarter.
We’re continuing to invest in capabilities that will help our advisors reach more clients and serve existing clients more fully.
One of our largest investments is our new brokerage platform.
It’s a multi-year project and its rollout has been successful.
All our employee advisors and more than half of our franchisee advisors are working on the new platform with the remaining advisors making the switch later this quarter.
While training will continue the larger investments for this project will wrap up later this year.
We also continue to invest in our brand and have enhanced our web presence and online capabilities.
Heardable Score which measures online brand performance ranked Ameriprise third in full-service investment brands online topping many other large firms.
Overall we feel good about our brand positioning and consumer awareness.
With an established brand and strong value proposition experienced advisor recruiting is going well.
During the quarter 91 experienced advisors with good books of business joined Ameriprise.
Approximately 400 advisors have moved their business to Ameriprise over the past year and we have seen a steady increase in the productivity levels of recruited advisors.
I feel very good about the quality of the advisors who are joining Ameriprise and our efforts to bring them onboard.
They have strong practices and share our values.
In addition to our recruiting success our long-tenured advisors remain highly satisfied resulting in very strong retention rates.
In terms of productivity operating net revenue per advisor was down slightly for the quarter driven by the unease in the markets.
We are increasingly working with clients and fee-based relationships and our fee-based production increased by nearly double digits; however as volatility spiked during the quarter client transaction volumes declined.
As we invest in tools to help advisors grow their practices and improve their productivity we still maintain a strong expense discipline.
We ended the quarter with a pre-tax operating margin of 11.6% up from 11.3% a year ago and 9.9% sequentially.
Short-term interest rates continue to have a significant impact on our results and the industry.
For example for just the year-over-year period low interest rates impacted profitability in the segment by 100 basis points.
As we move forward we continue to focus on pulling the right levers to drive profitability improvements in a lower revenue growth environment.
Earlier this month you likely saw that we are transitioning our federal savings bank to a non-depository national trust bank.
While we have grown the bank since launching it in 2006 it is a small part of our overall business.
Unfortunately Dodd-Frank does not distinguish between large consumer banks and companies with limited banking operations like Ameriprise.
Once complete we will no longer be considered a savings and loan holding company.
Importantly our deposit and lending client value proposition won’t change.
What will change is that it will be delivered through third parties.
These are quality firms and in many cases they had existing relationships with the bank.
While our decision will impact the advice and wealth management segment due to the loss of revenue and good margin business we anticipate using the additional capital flexibility to neutralize the EPS impact at the Ameriprise level by repurchasing our shares.
Now I’ll move on to asset management.
In the quarter asset management achieved consistent profitability in a tough market environment.
Total assets under management for this segment were $446 billion down 5% from a year ago from net outflows and average weighted market depreciation.
As I’ve mentioned the second quarter marked the official completion of our integration of Columbia Management a significant undertaking for the firm.
In terms of flows during the quarter we experienced 6.6 billion of net outflows which were largely driven by the expected former parent company and large outflows from the sources we discussed last quarter.
Walter will give you a detailed break-out in a few minutes.
As we look ahead the large former parent company outflows at Columbia are largely behind us.
The underlying business is sound.
I feel very good about the progress we’re making.
We’re headed in the right direction.
At Columbia we’re seeing steady progress in flows in our focused sales areas despite significant market headwinds in the quarter.
In institutional our pipeline remains strong.
Asset retention is excellent and we continue to deliver good win rates.
Earlier this week the State of South Carolina announced that we will continue managing its 529 plan.
At Threadneedle the challenges facing the euro zone dampened investor sentiment and led to lower institutional funding rates.
Even with the economic and market challenges in Europe net flows from European retail investors were essentially flat for the quarter.
With the completion of the Columbia integration we now have a strong global asset management platform.
We have strong performance across product lines with 116 Morningstar four- and five-star rated funds.
We have broad product lines and we’re launching new products where we see opportunity including the Columbia Risk Allocation Fund we introduced last month and we have extensive distribution in the United States and Europe and are working collaboratively to reach more clients and capture opportunities in Asia the Middle East and other international markets.
As we move forward we are focused on navigating the challenging environment and managing the business for profitable growth.
Clearly market conditions will continue to shape investor sentiment assets and flows.
While we expect flows to improve materially from what we experienced this quarter we like the industry continue to face market challenges.
That said we have the right people capabilities and strategy to achieve our long-term growth potential.
Now I’ll move on to annuities and protection.
In annuities we continue to balance the goals of offering clients products that help meet their income and protection needs while ensuring an appropriate risk profile and return for our shareholders.
Ultimately both the fixed and variable businesses are affected by a low interest rate environment and we’re taking steps to further address the related risks.
For example we introduced a new variable annuity rider in May that incorporates a managed volatility fund.
We stopped sales of certain guaranteed riders and we restricted add-on premiums for the VA in-force block.
As you would expect these decisions impacted variable annuity sales and net flows in the quarter.
Net inflows in the Ameriprise channel were $94 million which was down from a year ago and account balances remain flat at $65 billion.
We’re training advisors on the new product features and expect lower sales through the balance of the year as we continue the training process.
On the fixed side the asset and flow story has remained consistent as has the pressure of low rates.
While we feel good about the characteristics of our fixed block we are not adding to it given the rate environment.
Overall the underlying annuity business is performing within our expectations.
In protection we have good books of business that generate solid earnings and provide steady contributions to our diversified business.
We’re continuing to help our legacy and new advisors work with clients to address their insurance needs.
Total life insurance in force was $191 billion which has been largely unchanged over the past several quarters given the industry-wide pressures.
We’re seeing continued good lift in our universal life insurance which is more than offsetting slower sales in variable products.
In total VUL and UL sales were up 25% from a year ago.
In the auto and home business similar to what you’ve seen in the industry weather-related claims were reflected in second quarter earnings.
That said the business is doing well.
We generated solid growth and profits in the quarter and our policy count was up a steady 7%.
To summarize I feel very good about the risk characteristics and the long-term returns in our insurance and annuity businesses.
Overall Ameriprise remains in a strong position.
We’re making good progress and executing our strategy and helping people gain confidence in their financial future despite a very difficult environment.
The economy in the U.S.
is uncertain and clients are cautious.
As Americans return from summer vacations the election season will be in full swing and our economic issues will be fully debated.
I expect individual and institutional uncertainty and caution will remain elevated for the foreseeable future and there’s little relief from low interest rates.
At Ameriprise we will continue to manage through this period consistent with how we managed the firm since we became a public company.
Our business fundamentals are strong and our financial foundation is rock-solid.
We have embedded an expense discipline and are realizing the benefits of our reengineering program to fund our growth investments and help contribute to the bottom line.
We are evolving our business mix to generate more of our earnings from less capital-demanding businesses with strong free cash flow that adds to our existing excess capital position and enhances the flexibility to redeploy capital opportunistically and drive shareholder return.
Now I’ll turn it over to Walter.
Thank you Jim.
Our second quarter operating earnings per share of $1.13 included several significant discreet items which totaled $0.26 per share.
This included a negative $0.18 from a tax item associated with securities lending activity where we received incomplete data from a third party.
This resulted in the miscalculation of tax deductions in prior periods.
Our tax department became aware of the discrepancy in the second quarter and we took action.
We curtailed the activity associated with this securities lending and quantified the impact of the miscalculation.
Going forward we are confident this is behind us.
Turning to operating results in the quarter our segment business fundamentals and performance were good despite the challenges we face from volatile equity markets and declining interest rates which I will discuss in detail later.
We had three notable milestones in the quarter:  the Columbia Management integration was completed within expectations we announced our plans to transition our bank to a non-depository national trust bank which I will discuss later and we completed a major phase of transitioning advisors to the new brokerage platform.
In addition we returned 428 million of capital to shareholders and maintained a strong balance sheet position.
As you can see on Page 4 both revenues and earnings per share were affected by the current low rates and the volatile market situation.
Net revenues were also lower on a year-over-year basis by 27 million reflecting the gain we had last year when we unwound an interest rate hedge.
Earnings per share were also lower on a year-over-year basis from the interest rate hedge and $0.26 per share of unusual items in the quarter.
Specifically $0.18 per share was related to the tax items I just mentioned.
The remaining $0.08 per share was from the market impact on DAC and DSIC catastrophe losses above expected levels and the guaranty fund assessments primarily related to Executive Life of New York.
Excluding these one-time items earnings per share grew nicely primarily reflecting the high level of share repurchase over the last 12 months.
Turning to return on equity on Slide 5 this was also impacted by the aforementioned unusual items in the period.
The tax item in the quarter reduced ROE by approximately 50 basis points and the other discreet items reduced it by approximately 20 basis points.
Even in the difficult environment if adjusted for unusual items in the quarter our ROE would have been 15.9% which is consistent with last quarter.
The low interest rate environment continues to put pressure on our results.
As you are aware rates have continued to decline in 2012.
As a result we updated our estimate of the earnings impact over the next couple of years.
Overall we believe it is manageable.
Our current estimate for 2012 is that after-tax earnings will be about $55 million lower than last year which is about $20 million higher than our original estimate in the third quarter of 2011 and higher than what I indicated last quarter.
Given how rates moved last year about two-thirds of the estimated impact has already been realized in the first half of the year.
In 2013 low rates will reduce after-tax earnings by an additional $40 million.
In 2014 our rough estimate indicates that the incremental impact will be less than $10 million after-tax.
We will be re-pricing a large block of fixed annuities that are currently at a 1.5% guaranteed minimum interest rate which will allow us to improve our spreads on this block of business.
In advice and wealth management we demonstrate strong underlying fundamentals as Jim indicated so our focus is on margins in the quarter which increased to 11.6% despite the headwinds we faced from the markets and the $10 million impact from lower year-over-year interest rates.
We are realizing the benefits of our strong expense discipline while still making important investments for the longer term business growth.
Based on the low interest rates and market volatility we now expect margins to be in the 11 to 11.5% range for the full year; however the expense management initiatives we previously outlined are on track and will accelerate in the fourth quarter as the brokerage platform project is completed.
The bank exit in the fourth quarter will have a minimal impact to margins.
On Slide 8 I will provide some additional information on our bank exit.
Earlier this month we announced our plans to change our banking subsidiary by year-end subject to regulatory approval.
As Jim said this structure is more appropriate for our business mix and will give us more capital flexibility.
There will be approximately $20 million of non-operating expenses in 2012 and early 2013.
In addition the transition frees up about 375 million in capital on a net balance basis.
Other balance sheet impacts are nominal.
We estimate that this will reduce AWM earnings by 45 to $50 million in 2013 and decreased margins by 80 to 100 basis points on an annualized basis.
At the enterprise level we anticipate that the impact to earnings per share will be immaterial as we redeploy the excess capital to shareholders through share repurchase throughout 2013.
Turning to asset management we are feeling the impact from outflows we experienced last year the industry shift from equity to fixed income as well as the lower equity markets.
We are making good progress on managing expenses to partially offset revenue pressures.
On a sequential basis earnings were stable despite market volatility and reflect good expense controls.
We completed the Columbia integration and are well positioned to grow this global business as we go forward.
As Jim said the fundamentals around distribution and performance remain strong.
In the near term market conditions will keep margins at our current level for the full year or 33 to 34% on an adjusted basis and 18 to 19% on an operating basis.
This is a change from what we provided last quarter primarily because of weak equity market performance in the quarter.
Now let’s look more closely at asset management flows on Slide 10.
I wanted to provide an update on the large anticipated outflows primarily at Columbia that we discussed last quarter.
Last quarter we expected to see 4.7 billion of outflows from former parent 401K Balboa Insurance and the loss of the New York 529 plan.
Our actual results were in line with these expectations with some acceleration in outflows from Balboa Insurance assets.
$1.5 billion of AWM remains from Balboa and we expect these outflows over the next few quarters.
Aside from these assets we expect these large former parent company outflows are behind us.
We continue to see about 900 million of outflows in our value and restructuring fund due to the retirement of the portfolio manager earlier this year.
It appears that this trend is now slowing.
We also saw continued outflows from a third party sub-advisor in the quarter.
Outflows in the closed block of insurance assets at Threadneedle represented the majority of Threadneedle’s outflows in the period.
As we look ahead to flows in the second half of the year we are mindful that this is a challenging environment as Jim described.\ Turning to annuities earnings were also pressured by the operating environment.
DAC adjustments and several other items including payments of the guaranty funds associated with Executive Life in New York.
Together these reduced segment pre-tax operating earnings.
Variable annuity operating earnings were 83 million in the quarter down from 88 million a year ago.
Results included unfavorable impacts from low interest rates and the market impact on DAC partially offset by the fee increase on living benefit riders and lower distribution expenses.
For fixed annuities operating earnings declined to 33 million reflecting the 17 million from lower spreads and a $14 million unfavorable item from valuation model changes.
Turning to protection pre-tax operating earnings improved year-over-year by 17 million to 109 million.
Results were strong in life and health.
We have favorable life and disability claims experience in the quarter which were somewhat offset by unfavorable long-term care results.
We also released a $9 million life insurance IBNR reserve in the quarter.
Our auto and home business remains strong with policy growth at 7%.
Catastrophe losses were 17 million in the quarter which was 8 million above our expected levels of claims.
In the period last year our catastrophe losses were $15 million which was $11 million above our expected level of claims.
Now let’s turn to our balance sheet which remains very strong.
Our high-quality investment portfolio continues to perform well with only $8 million of impairments in the quarter.
We had minimal European exposure with no holdings of sovereign debt or financial institutions in financially troubled European countries.
Our hedge program remains over 95% effective and greatly reduces the risk associated with our variable annuity business.
We have 2 billion-plus of excess capital and 1.1 billion of free cash across the company.
The life company had an estimated RBC ratio of approximately 525%.
Taking a closer look at capital returned to shareholders in the quarter we continued to return significant capital to shareholders and have paid out 134% year-to-date.
As of the market close yesterday our dividend yield was a strong 2.9%.
We repurchased $350 million of common stock and paid $78 million in dividends this quarter.
Going forward we plan to return the majority of our earnings to shareholders gradually increasing the mix between dividends and repurchases.
In closing Ameriprise continues to perform well despite a very challenging revenue environment.
This speaks to the resilience of our business model and our expense management discipline.
Our business mix continues to generate significant free cash flow which we are returning to shareholders and our excess capital position gives us enhanced flexibility.
With that I will open it up to your questions.
Thank you and good morning.
I wanted to start with the revised guidance for advice and wealth of 11 to 11.5.
If I go back to last quarter’s conference call Walter I think—you know I was just reading it just now and the phrase that you were using was definitely achievable.
I think you said it’s not a walk in the park but certainly the definitely achievable suggested some level of confidence.
Obviously this quarter the margin snapped up pretty nicely so I guess I’m trying to figure out what exactly has changed in your thinking today versus what you saw in the first quarter so I’ll start there.
I think the main thing if you take at look at why I said it was achievable was because of the expense and the trajectory on the revenue at that time.
Since that time we’ve seen the market come off and certainly there has been continued impact on the transactional activities.
We still believe it’s achievable – within the 11 and 11.5 – and we’re just going to move on through it.
The plans are working and I think coming off the 12 is not really that big a deal when you’re talking about a situation that’s changed as much as it was when last discussed.
Okay.
I mean I guess if you just kind of do the math you’re running at 10.7 I think first half; so that would put you—to get to sort of 11 11.5 I think that’d kind of put your second half at around 12.
So it kind of feels like maybe you just can’t overcome the tough first quarter where you were at 9.9.
Is that a reasonable read? Yeah I think your read is right.
I don’t know if I would go as high on second half but certainly the second half will have an improvement factor.
Okay.
And just to be clear this 11 to 11.5 excludes the impact of exiting the bank since you’re going to have the bank for most of this year so as we think about 2013 sort of the starting point is something like 10.1 to 10.6 and if that’s correct I’m just wondering what the game plan is to try to get that margin higher and where do you think it could go as we think about 2013? All right so there is a very marginal impact in ’12 okay as it relates to the bank.
It was just taking place in the fourth quarter.
And always incorporated in the ’12 was the bank and really it’s a phenomenon of it’s revenue to PTI relationships which is quite high because of the net revenue calculation of interest less this deposit base expense that you have on the credit.
I think certainly we have as Jim has said and we have said we have momentum and we certainly look at the numbers and give guidance as it relates to the positioning; but the business is in good shape.
It is generating good margin and we certainly have the fundamentals we feel in control.
So I’m not prepared to come up with a number right now but certainly that would have to be factored because that was actually part of it when we actually came up with the 12.
Sumeet this is Jim.
I think overall if we look at the underlying aspects of the AWM business nothing actually has changed from even a year ago.
In fact I would probably say that we’ve been able to manage through even a more difficult market with better margins overall and I think to the end of the year we continue to see the improvement on the expense side as we said.
I think the only real change is that the markets are a bit more volatile.
People are a little more concerned as we go out of the year.
Unemployment is a little higher so as you would imagine people are holding a bit more cash.
Transactions are a bit down from what we were running at when things started to show the improvement.
Interest rates short-term rates from last year have come down.
I mean it was 10 million just in the first quarter.
There is a bit more in the first quarter second quarter was 10 million.
That alone is 100 basis points just in the quarter and year-to-date it’s probably over 100 basis points.
So those are things that again we didn’t fully understand some of the impact of that when we chatted in November and the change from April really is just due to the transaction revenue.
You’re right that we still think that the second half of the year will be closer to the 12 or a bit over depending on the quarter depending on activities.
But as we look out the bank itself has added margin and when we take that out it will adjust the overall margin rate.
But one of the things that’s very important to understand in that decision was it does free up a lot of capital and a capital requirement that would have gone up a lot.
And I think as other institutions that have banking business and spread business in their AWM business it’s going to be a change from where it was where that margin was not as driven by capital-intensive activities and that will change.
So we think it was the right decision and so on a margin-adjusted basis I don’t think that we’re going to have any concerns to continue to make the progress.
Having said that it does take a certain amount out of the margin base because the earnings in the bank did contribute to that margin.
So I hope that helps clarify and I think Walter can lay that out in a little more detail as we go forward.
No that’s helpful.
And again I agree that the trade-off between a point of margin and sort of capital flexibility in terms of buyback is a trade-off that I would support as well.
Just a quick follow-up on flows – the past couple quarters we’ve been hearing about the institutional pipeline at Columbia being very strong and building and I get some of the moving pieces this quarter in terms of former parent stuff.
But even I back that out of the flows it kind of looks sort of flattish.
I guess I’m just wondering when are we going to see that institutional pipeline start coming through in terms of turning those outflows into inflows.
Thanks.
Well as we looked at the pipeline from last year the pipeline has grown nicely.
Now I think what has occurred in the pipeline is it’s sort of leveled off based on again the market situation over the last quarter or so.
Having said that it hasn’t fallen and as we look at the win rates and the percentages it’s still doing quite well.
Having said that we do have those redemptions that come in.
Now part of the flow situation on the redemptions are things like the VNR fund and things like that that are in there part of the Bank America pension fund activity.
So we had the outflows.
Part of that goes institutional part retail.
I would just say that I think we’re holding our own in this market.
I think we’re getting more of our product out there with a broader what I would call a line-up of institutions.
But things do take time in a sense to get some of the newer categories that we once did not sell into the institutional pipeline.
Having said that we don’t see any negative and as I speak to our institutional sales group they actually feel pretty good about it.
So I think part of it is timing.
Funding rates as well – I mean just as in Europe we were having some good wins institutional and then some of the funding rates just sort of dry up a little bit or are put on hold.
And so I do believe this environment does affect some of that activity but I have not received any change from my people as far as what they’re seeing right now.
But the environment does have its effect.
Okay thank you.
Thanks and good morning.
For the buyback related to the capital release from the bank transition should we consider that 375 over and above what you would typically do in 2013 i.e.
100% of earnings? Actually okay – it’s Walter.
Based on current plans we would intend as we indicated in the release that we would offset the impact and that would presume that again depending on the circumstances that we would deploy that.
Right but it would be over and above your typical buyback correct?  I just wanted to clarify that.
Yes.
(Talkover) so therefore yes we would be over and above typical.
Okay.
And Walter what gives you confidence in the ability to hit the target margins particularly in asset and wealth as well as asset management?  What’s the risk of not achieving those? Well as Jim said the key foundation element is we are managing the expenses.
We’ve done that.
We’re going through the conversion and the conversion expense will start tailing off in the fourth quarter.
And the other reengineering we’re getting the improvement in the run rate so we have a solid positioning on that.
The flexibility items or the non-controllable items are the interest rates as Jim mentioned which again were at the low point.
If you look back certainly as we get into the beginning of the year we thought it would certainly be much higher; and then it’s the transaction the environment and the other situation.
So that is—clearly on the controllables we feel comfortable and we are getting good productivity and the question is where the markets are and the environment.
Again in asset management good control of the expenses.
I think performance is excellent and we are getting traction on the distribution side.
So for the things we control we’re managing it and I think we’re getting good positioning.
Okay.
And then on a separate issue can you give us a sense of what the standalone return on equity is on the auto and home business? Standalone return in the auto/home business is— So not for the overall protection unit but— It’s around—figure between around 12 and 15%.
And again remember it’s coming through now and it’s actually—it went through the situation it improved and actually on its current trajectory that I would say is the low base of it and it’s on good positioning to the higher middle teens.
Okay thank you.
Hey guys good morning.
Wanted to follow up Walter on your comments around the bank and I guess the timing.
So when you think about the freed up capital - $375 million – and you guys redeploying that into the buyback I just want to clarify – that is on top of your kind of normal buyback that you keep doing and also what do you think is the timing of that?  So you know if you guys—is this this year’s event or is it next year’s event?  Are you guys going to kind of spread it around over the next couple of quarters?  How should we think about that.
Okay so let me be clear – it’s our intention beyond the circumstance it will be over and above.
Again if you look at—we talked about neutralizing or trying to certainly offset through the purchase—utilization of the capital the earnings that were lost from the bank so that would—you should assume—you know again we look at the opportunities with the stock and other things of that nature so we don’t get to any set time frame but certainly we’re trying to be guided by trying to neutralize the impact of the lost profitability associated with the bank.
So on that basis we gave you the numbers of somewhere between 45 and $50 million pre-tax and that you should assume is spread reasonably equally over the year.
Okay.
And just I guess from the technical perspective if that does say make you use up your buyback authorization sooner what’s your flexibility on going back to the Board and asking for a bigger buyback?  Is that a quarterly event? As we start approaching it we certainly go back and demonstrate to the Board our ability to do that so we have degrees of flexibility to present to the Board to get additional authorization.
Excellent.
And then shifting gears a little bit to AWM it sounds like the pipeline of employee advisors is still pretty strong and we’re seeing that frankly across the industry where the wire houses continue to lose some share.
Can you quantify the productivity of advisors that are coming in or the ones that you currently see in the pipeline versus your current book of business? The average production of the people we’re recruiting over the last few quarters has actually been higher than the recruits that we did even previously and we are finding that they are coming in with larger books of business.
Now against our entire system including the averages of the franchisee system they’re probably in that realm of productivity.
If we look at the employee system they’re on average a bit higher because as you know we still have some of the legacy novices further developing there.
But we believe that the level that we’re recruiting at now actually will give us a nice productivity lift as we continue to move forward raising the average of the employee system and in line with our franchisee system.
Got it.
And just a last one from me – Jim in the past you talked about the level of frustration with the valuation in the stock.
Is there any strategic options that you guys could potentially consider that would unlock some of the shareholder value? You know as I look at the company today the thing that I would just say right now is I know we’re in a little difficult market but when I compare the valuation against other companies and I look at the earnings I look at even the continued growth of those businesses over the last number of years and the profitability I actually think we are undervalued to a large extent even if I look at the annuity insurance business based on the quality of that book and that it’s a proprietary book and system and the returns that we achieve on that.
So listen – I think over time it’s going to be recognized.
I do believe we are making the right amount of changes so there is something that you can say as well – can you take something out of it and sell it et cetera and would that change you?  Yes I think it could but I don’t think you’d get the right value in this marketplace today and in some cases it depends on who you sell to whether you feel as comfortable with what you have in the end because even on the insurance book you have your obligations out there.
So I actually feel what we’re doing will get us to a much more what I would call less capital intensive mix over time and the growth that we are seeing in some of our businesses and the capabilities we’ve put in.
You know if I look at asset management just as an example I know we look at some of the flows quarter to quarter; but if you go back two years and look at what we had and what we have today as an asset management business it’s materially different and the value we achieve there through that acquisition and integration we have a great platform today – a wide mix of product good performance wider distribution international and domestic.
And our AWM business I would match up against anyone in the growth there over the last number of years and even the margins and profitability.
So our annuity business has held up really well.
Our hedging is good.
We don’t have exposure based on how we actually managed that book and hedged it all through its growth and our protection book is all proprietary and excellent in that regard.
So yeah we could make some changes probably not in this environment; but having said that I think the strategy we have will unlock that value and migrate us to I think a bit more of a higher PE business over time.
And as anything else I think we’re all frustrated a little bit with the market and so that frustration compounds the activity.
But I feel really good about it and even though I don’t like this environment I think it does affect us and I would like the business to show greater levels of growth.
I feel like we’re making to Walter’s point what we can do as the controllable to continue to improve the underlying value of the company and in time maybe it will be recognized.
Got it.
Thanks.
Thanks.
First question for Walter – you had mentioned your Dodd-Frank interpretation in terms of the change in bank capital rules.
When you mention that your assessment of required capital would have gone up a lot from the 375 million what order of magnitude were you talking about there?  I would assume it would have to be substantial for you to have made this decision.
You know were you looking at doubling or tripling of required capital just to give us range order of magnitude? And then related to that can you talk about any potential risks to actually exiting the current structure or do you expect that you’re going to be able to get this done without any angst?  Okay let me start with the second part.
It’s a big undertaking but I think we’ve done our planning and I think we had the necessary valuations done and operational capabilities put in place.
We are targeting to do that through—once we get regulatory approval in the fourth quarter and I think we see everything working as of now and we feel confident that it will take place subject again to regulatory approval.
As relates to capital it’s a fairly fluid situation so therefore you’re evaluating it but certainly different signaling from it if you headed to the various Basel conventions and how it would be applied it would be a substantial capital impact because you were a depository-taking institution on the entire institution.
That was certainly where it seemed like it was leaning and so therefore we looked at this and started evaluating to put in place and ensure that we can provide the capabilities to our customers and do this in the most effective way and that’s what has taken place.
But we felt it would be a fairly substantial impact on the other businesses that in some respects could make us non-competitive.
Got it.
And I guess as I think about your advice and wealth management post-this transaction going forward is it fair to say that right now you’ve got a little bit of a mix between fee and spread – mainly fee but then there’s a spread component.
Are we going to have any spread-based component of earnings left in advice and wealth management post-this transaction? Sure we will.
We have the sweep account where there’s $14 billion.
That obviously creates a substantial opportunity for us as the short rates change.
We also have the certificate company which has about $3 billion $3.5 billion in it.
It’s been with us actually more than I can remember – it got here before I did.
And those are excellent opportunities and it’s certainly an important product for our customer base.
Got it.
And Jim can you comment on just the balance that you’re thinking about right now in terms of capital deployment between the M&amp;A environment buybacks and dividends? Yeah I would say as we left last year based on what we thought may be some good properties out there I was probably a bit more enthusiastic on the M&amp;A front.
Based on looking at some of those various properties et cetera I’m probably not as enthusiastic as you can see – we haven’t really done anything.
And from that perspective we’ve been picking up the buyback a bit more and raising the dividend; and as Walter said we’re going to continue to look at the dividend and the buyback mix.
We have over the last six quarters gone from even the idea of what we said about returning roughly all of our earnings 130% of our earnings and we’ve sort of picked that up again.
So at this point in time I would probably say we’re leaning more in the return to shareholders rather than the acquisition.
I’m not saying that something might not come along that might be good appropriate for us strategically or of value; but we do have the capital on hand to do that and still maintain a good level of buyback and dividend increases.
So that’s the way I would probably look at it and again it’s always a situation that changes a little bit.
But one of the things that we—you know in this market situation with our stock where it is it’s a good price.
Got it thanks.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
My first question relates to the decision to change the legal format of your financial institution.
I purposely say change the legal format because (audio interference) institution business you’re changing as I understand it the legal entity or the legal nature of it.
So my question is what are the specific businesses that you will be leaving that you would otherwise have been in that will result in this loss of 45 to $50 million pre-tax in earnings?  What won’t you—go ahead I’m sorry.
The only business that we’re leaving is the banking business as a depository institution.
So in the bank we developed the bank it was a national chartered bank.
It takes deposits as well as makes loans.
Some of those loans we kept on balance sheet; some we sold off balance sheet like mortgages et cetera.
In that regard if we maintain that legal entity status we are a savings and loan holding company under the new regulations and that causes us to be subject as a legal entity to certain capital requirements that go sometimes beyond what that legal entity itself.
So not only do the capital requirements for the legal entity go up but it may affect the rest of the institution as well.
And again the signal coming out in the various capital requirements that you’re starting to see be made public as we evaluated that fully we didn’t think it would be appropriate for us to subject the entire entity for the businesses we’re in.
We’d rather have the ability to grow those businesses as they are currently set up.
So the only thing we’re changing is that we’re moving the bank charter to a national trust charter so we can still do trust services.
It won’t have the extra capital requirements per se; it’s just for that business appropriate.
And it gives us the ability to continue to build the businesses as we have in the past.
And so that’s it – nothing else has changed.
We’re not leaving any other businesses outside of the banking business.
Okay.
My second question relates to—go ahead Walter.
Yeah I just wanted to say we are still going to be offering the services it will just be through third parties so the capabilities to our customer base is still there.
Right I understand.
Thank you.
My second question relates to your outlook for margins in your asset management business.
You’re saying that—I think you said in your prepared remarks and your slides that you anticipate margins for the full year to be consistent with those in the first half of the year.
But of course and a question – isn’t that entirely dependent on what happens in the market in the second half of this year?  I mean it’s still quite early – we haven’t finished the first month of the third quarter.
I’m trying to understand if you’re telling me that there’s been a modest degradation in the margins from your original expectations that sort of is unlikely to be reversed irrespective of what happens in the market or will margins for the full year very much be a function of what the market does in the second half of the year? I think Eric what we are saying is this – when we and to be very fair for you is when we actually gave you the idea of the margins we were in a certain market situation with the idea that markets would appreciate okay?  And so to be very honest as the first quarter – and you’ve even asked the questions that said well why are you coming off?  What’s changed in your margin outlook?  And so what has changed is the environment a bit more.
Equity markets have come down a lot.
Volatility has affected flows and client activity and the same thing in the asset management business.
I mean we run a lot of equity assets and so with the market depreciating a bit it does impact that margin.
It goes right to the margin and the bottom line.
So yes we have adjusted that based on those market conditions.
Also the effect that those market conditions have on equity flows I don’t think—again as we looked at the beginning of the year I think the whole industry including us would say hey it looks like equity asset flows are starting to pick up again – that’s good.
I think you have seen just again in the second quarter that flows have really been in fixed income.
And so that exactly is the reason – fixed income products don’t have as high margins as equity even if you do get the flows and the mix does cause a depreciation if the markets are down against the entire—you know if we look at the large base of equity assets.
In the AWM business it really is the client activity coming out and the lower interest rates and so those are the only two changes.
So even as I look at third quarter I think we’ll be in similar type of margin ranges but the fourth quarter we see—if things just continue to hold the pickup—because as we said some of the expenses will go away in the systems that will start to boost the margin in again.
So it is very hard to put that as a finite to your point which is very accurate that we don’t know the market conditions for the next quarters.
The only thing we can say is based on what we’re seeing today we hope they will get better; but if they don’t we are just trying to give you a little better of what that would mean.
And I guess just one final point that just came into my head that I wanted to ask you – would it be right to say that margins in the asset management business in the third quarter are really not independent of margin activity in the second quarter that the quarters are linked in the sense that if you start from a lower—if you start the third quarter from a lower base than you had anticipated because the second quarter was poor that’s going to influence third quarter margins.
Am I thinking about the economics and the relationship between the quarters correctly? Absolutely because your asset base starts at a lower level and therefore your fees start to be booked consistently from that.
It just doesn’t get booked at the end of the quarter wherever the market ends.
Thank you.
Hi good morning.
I want to follow up a little bit on the asset management margin and I’m going to use the GAAP margin that I guess in the first half of the year is slightly over 18%.
I’m just thinking about that margin versus for instance the margin on a core basis ex-some of the one-timers in 2011 which I think was about 18.8%.
You know the market’s up on average about 6% in the first half of this year – the equity market – versus the full year last year and your average assets are up about 2% in the first half of this year versus the full year last year yet your margin is down about 70 basis points and it doesn’t sound like it’s going to get much higher from there.
So I guess I’m sort of struggling with the same thing Eric is in that I’m just trying to understand where the scale benefits are here and the integration saves.
I don’t—I’m struggling with that.
Okay.
It’s Walter.
Let me start with certainly if you use the S&amp;P you would say that the market is up 3% on average for the half a year but unfortunately our asset base isn’t really geared to the S&amp;P exclusively so we use a weighted equity index and that is actually down.
That’s down 1% so I think that is part of your delta situation that you have from that standpoint and that is putting pressure on the margins because you have also had to shift as Jim said from equities to fixed which is there.
And as we also mentioned this is the first quarter we have the impact of the 529 plan from New York.
So we do believe we’re tracking and expense reengineering and revenue reengineering will be coming through so we think we are on track.
Certainly the market has been problematic the mix has been problematic from that standpoint so we think it’s understandable and we are able to calibrate and we feel we’re tracking within our expectations.
Okay.
And then just—I’m not sure if you addressed this earlier and maybe the answer is none but just a quick question on—so it sounds like all of the previously highlighted one-time type large outflows have now taken place with maybe some remaining from Balboa.
I’m just wondering—is that correct? That is correct.
There’s about 1.5 billion left on Balboa.
Okay and just the question is is there any new sizeable or one-time type mandates that you’ve either won or lost?  I know you mentioned South Carolina’s 529 plan but anything else to think about as we look forward? Again there has been—certainly some of the mandates being funded are less and nothing that I would say is sizeable at this stage.
But because the market has certainly impacted the level that we had certainly Middle East mandates come in at a lesser level and there have been some—there are certainly outflows.
But the issue is at this stage we’re just tracking it.
Okay.
All right thank you very much.
Thank you.
First of all we appreciate you listening in this morning as well as for your questions.
If there are any other follow-up questions or information that you need please contact Alicia and Chad and they’ll walk you through or give you some additional information that will help you.
As I said—listen we’re in a fluid situation with the markets et cetera.
Having said that I think we’re in a good situation in the underlying business.
I can’t with accuracy predict quarter to quarter and that’s not my job.
What is my job is to continue to with my team keep navigating the environment in a good strong way which I think we have been over the last number of years and we feel good about our ability to do that.
We do see—even though it’s not as apparent we do see good progress being made in each of the businesses.
We would like to see the flows in the asset management business improve but I do believe part of it is getting over the hump with the integration which we have now.
We will still experience some challenges – ins and outs with the flows.
We run a very large business with a number of different venues but having said that I think we’re gaining some underlying traction.
I think it’s feeling positive in that sense and we’ve got a solid core now from which we can build.
And in regard to our other businesses I do believe in this environment there’s always concern particularly around some of the protection-type businesses but I would say to you that we feel very confident and comfortable with the businesses we have with the books that we put on with the client behavior that we have; and we feel particularly based on our capital position and hedging and strategy that we’re in good shape.
So thank you and we’ll continue to keep our focus and if there’s anything else that you may need to know please contact us.
Have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Q4 Year-End Earnings Call.
My name is Vanessa and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Alicia Charity.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial’s Fourth Quarter Earnings call.
On the call with me today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we'll be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the company’s operations.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today’s materials on our website.
Some statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management’s expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today’s date and involve a number of risks factors and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today’s earnings release our 2012 annual report to shareholders and our 2012 10-K report.
We undertake no obligation to update publicly or to revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our fourth quarter earnings discussion.
I'll begin by giving you my perspective on the quarter and Walter will cover more of the numbers then we'd take your questions.
Let's get started.
For the quarter on an operating basis net revenues were up 6% to $2.6 billion.
Earnings were $367 million up 19% with earnings per share of $1.71 up 31%.
And return on equity increased to 16.2%.
Equity market appreciation and increased client activity drove top line growth in the quarter and we're managing interest-rate headwinds through reengineering initiatives and keeping expenses tight.
I feel good about the underlying business fundamentals and our results overall.
There are a few moving pieces impacting earnings that we highlighted and Walter will cover it in more detail.
Results in our Advice &amp; Wealth Management business led the way it was a very good quarter for the business.
In Asset Management we continue to make progress growing our earnings while in annuities and protection the businesses are performing in line with our expectations when you adjust for the items noted.
We also continue to benefit from our balance sheet strength and capital management key points of differentiation for Ameriprise.
We devoted $446 million in the quarter to share repurchases and dividends.
Now let's review our segment performance starting with Advice &amp; Wealth Management where we're generating strong earnings growth and good profitability.
For the quarter revenues were up 11% reflecting both higher asset levels and a pickup in client activity.
Total retail client assets of $353 billion were a new high aided by market appreciation and very strong client net inflows.
Wrap net inflows of $2.1 billion were up more than 50% from a year ago.
In each of the past 4 quarters we generated strong wrap net inflows with $9.6 billion of total inflows for the year which helped raise our wrap assets under management to $125 billion.
Clients also added to their cash positions which may have reflected the uncertainty in the marketplace with the election and potential tax changes.
At year end brokerage cash balances reached $19 billion up 20% from the third quarter.
As clients gain confidence I would expect they will reallocate a portion of these assets to other products in 2013.
In addition to strong client flows we continue to track experienced and productive advisors to Ameriprise.
In the quarter 68 productive advisors joined the firm.
In fact the average productivity of the advisors who joined us in the quarter was about 40% higher than those who joined us in the first quarter of 2011.
In terms of total advisor productivity operating net revenue per advisor increased by double digits from a year ago.
We continue to invest in our brand in the fourth quarter.
As we enter 2013 we just launched a new series of advertisements with Tommy Lee Jones that speak about Ameriprise and what consumers need to do to create a confident retirement.
The expenses of our ad campaign are consistent with last year and are up a bit sequentially from the third quarter as we told you.
We offset the fourth quarter advertising expenses by reducing expenses as part of our conversion to our new brokerage platform and that expense improvement will continue through the first part of the year.
Overall we're managing expenses tightly and we'll continue to do so.
In fact I should note that the results we delivered in the quarter reflected lower revenue in earnings because of our decision to discontinue our banking operations.
That work is now complete.
In fact I want to inform you that we learned yesterday afternoon that we have been granted regulatory approval to transition the bank to a national trust institution.
In terms of segment profitability pretax operating margin was strong at 11.8% compared to 9.2% a year ago.
If you exclude the impact of the bank transition and the 2 months of lost earnings segment operating margin would have been above 13% for the quarter and that's including managing headwinds from low interest rates.
All in all it was a very good quarter for our advisory business.
We have the right strategies in place and we continue to make good progress.
Now let's move to asset management.
Total assets under management for the segment were $455 billion up 5% with Threadneedle and market appreciation driving asset growth.
Revenues were up both from a year ago and sequentially even when excluding performance fees from all periods.
We're benefiting from revenue reengineering initiatives we have put in place.
We're also generating solid profitability improvement.
In terms of margin adjusted net pretax operating margin was 33.6% for the quarter compared to 31.4% a year ago.
We continue to deliver strong investment performance across 1- 3- and 5-year time frames in asset-weighted and equal-weighted categories in both equities and fixed income.
At quarter end 51 Columbia funds were rated 4 or 5 stars by Morningstar and 60 funds at Threadneedle.
Overall we experienced $3.9 billion of net outflows in the quarter driven by outflows in institutional portfolios.
Retail flows were essentially flat with strong flows at Threadneedle offset by outflows at Columbia.
As we start the year we're starting to see improved flows as consumers have started to come back into the market.
While it's too early to characterize the quarter we're seeing positive initial signs.
We will remain focused on continuing to generate consistent competitive investment performance.
In addition we are bringing a very strong focus to execute against our plans to capture distribution opportunities for both retail and institutional.
We're also continuing to develop new and enhanced products.
Columbia and Threadneedle are collaborating to take advantage of some of the larger global opportunities we see in the marketplace.
Now I'll move on to annuities and protection.
Let's start with annuities.
We had a good book of business and we continue to manage risk effectively.
As you know we introduced a new variable annuity product in the second quarter of last year and has taken a number of months for our advisors to acclimate to the new product.
In the quarter variable annuity sales started to pick up to more normal levels.
Overall variable annuities were in net outflows due to our decision to close outside distribution.
On the fixed side we have a good block of business.
That said we're not adding to it given the current rate environment.
Overall the business is performing in line with our expectations and we continue to focus on continuing to balance client benefits with attractive risk-adjusted returns consistent with our strategy.
Now let’s turn to protection which you saw was impacted by weather-related losses.
Life and health insurance earnings reflected good claims experience and lower expenses.
In terms of metrics we're seeing good pickup in cash sales with our index Universal Life product as the main driver of the growth.
We also enhanced our variable Universal Life product and we're starting to see increased sales as people are becoming more confident in the equity markets.
In Auto and Home we continue to see good growth in policies and premiums.
As I mentioned we absorbed the loss related to Superstorm Sandy and we also increased reserves related to higher auto claims severity which is consistent with what others in the industry are experiencing.
I feel good about the outlook for the business.
I'd like to close by reinforcing the benefits or our ability to generate strong free cash flow which gives us flexibility to return capital to shareholders and to drive ROE and EPS growth.
For example for the year we dedicated more than $1.3 billion to share repurchases and increased our dividends paid per common share by 64% all while maintaining our excess capital position.
In total we returned more than 130% of our operating earnings to shareholders.
And we're targeting to return the majority of annual earnings and the capital we freed up from the bank to shareholders going forward.
With that I'll now turn it over to Walter to go through the quarter in more detail.
Walter? Thank you Jim.
Ameriprise had a solid fourth quarter with operating EPS of $1.71 up 31% versus last year.
This was driven by growth in our core business and continued expense discipline.
We also returned almost $450 million of capital to shareholders in the quarter bringing our total return during the year to $1.7 billion.
I would like to provide additional context relating to some unusual items we had in the quarter which we detailed in our earnings release.
Within $1.71 of operating EPS we had several favorable items totaling $0.25 including a variable annuity living benefit liability model revision that resulted in reserve release a settlement with a third-party service provider and a review of our deferred tax balance that reduced our tax expense relating to prior periods.
In addition to these disclosed items we had other non-repeating items which had a net negative impact of about $0.05 at the Ameriprise level.
These included higher expenses related to: an incremental year-end compensation true up; an elevated severance expenses partially offset by lower taxes.
Adjusting for those items our normalized performance was $1.51 per share.
Turning to Slide 5.
Operating net revenues were $2.6 billion up 6% from a year ago.
Led by 11% growth in Advice &amp; Wealth Management with only 1 month of bank revenues and 5% growth in asset management.
Revenue growth from protection and annuities was in line with our expectations as we continue to shift our earnings mix to lower capital-intense businesses.
Turning to pretax operating earnings.
We also had good growth of 8% over last year in the face of the low-rate environment.
As was revenues we had excellent 43% growth in Advice &amp; Wealth Management even with lower bank earnings as well as good Asset Management profitability.
This has driven a shift in our business mix to 50% of earnings coming from our less capital-intense businesses versus 43% from those businesses in the fourth quarter last year.
You saw elevated Auto and Home cat losses in the quarter from Sandy which dampened otherwise good results in the protection segment.
Let's move on to the segment discussions.
Advice &amp; Wealth Management business performed well in the period and throughout 2012 as we executed on our strategy to improve productivity add experienced advisors and invest in technology and our brand.
Advisor productivity increased 11% to $103 000 from high client transaction levels which included increased sales of direct alternative investments and client net inflows.
Cash balance increased in the quarter was nearly $19 billion in brokerage cash and we are effectively positioned for rates eventually rising.
We remained focused on managing expenses.
The brokerage platform conversion is winding down and we will determine how much of that will be reinvested in growth initiatives or fall to the bottom line.
Pre-tax op earnings [ph] were up 43% to $119 million as we had a very strong quarter compared to last year.
We also completed our bank transition in the quarter.
Ceased bank operations and received D registration approval.
We delivered a good 11.8% margin in the quarter and we estimate the margin would've been over 13% if we had not exited the bank.
Turning to asset management on the next slide.
We had good earnings of $141 million up 11% over last year.
Last year's results included the favorable impact from a CDO liquidation.
Revenues were up 5% from market appreciation revenue reengineering and performance fees which was similar to third quarter levels.
Also in this was pressure from prior-period outflows.
Expenses were up 4% from the impact of market appreciation on distribution and sub advice fees as well as performance fee-related compensation.
In 2013 we will continue to focus on both revenue and expense reengineering opportunities as well as profitable net flow growth.
Importantly investment performance of both Columbia and Threadneedle continue to be strong.
Looking more closely at flows on an aggregate basis we had $3.9 billion of outflows this quarter.
Overall we had higher institutional outflows in the quarter and retail was essentially flat on a global basis.
Strong retail inflows of over $1 billion at Threadneedle were offset by outflows at Columbia.
In retail and mutual funds we saw similar trends to others in the industry including activity in the last part of the quarter influenced by investors' desire to lock in capital gains in advance of anticipated tax changes.
We will also continue to see outflows in the third party sub advice assets and in devaluing restructuring fund.
Lastly we were impacted by portfolio rebalancing which contributed to both retail and institutional outflows in the quarter.
Institutional outflows of $3.3 billion were largely driven by low-margin legacy insurance assets of $1.2 billion at Threadneedle and $400 million at Columbia as well as the portfolio rebalancing and model changes I just mentioned.
We are taking steps to add new products to these platforms to help us retain these assets as these trends continue.
Looking into 2013 we have a good institutional pipeline and continue to win mandates.
However I would like to mention that we expect to see about $900 million of additional outflows from Zurich in the first quarter associated with a mandate in Japan.
Turning to annuities.
Pretax operating earnings were $171 million up 4% which was in line with our expectations.
Variable annuity operating earnings were $129 million including the $43 million favorable model adjustment I described earlier and a $14 million lower impact from mean [ph] reversion compared to a year ago.
Earnings in the quarter were also impacted by higher DAC amortization and increased SOP reserve funding related to our third quarter unlocking which was driven by the low interest rate environment.
We expect these items will continue to impact variable annuity results in 2013 until we complete our annual unlocking process in the third quarter of 2013.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 results include the favorable impact of markets' unreserved funding and model changes.
As a reminder we have taken multiple steps to derisk the variable annuity book including exiting third-party distribution several years ago and more recently introducing a managed volatility product.
In the quarter we saw improving trends from our managed volatility product and we are on schedule to launch additional investment options for it in the first half of this year.
In fixed annuities operating earnings declined $4 million which includes a $17 million impact from low interest rates and an $8 million unfavorable reserve adjustment last year.
The pressure from low interest rates will continue to impact the fixed annuity block into 2013.
However we have flexibility to reset rates on a large 5-year guarantee block beginning at the end of 2013 and continuing to early 2014.
Operating pretax earnings in the protection segment was $93 million down $20 million from a year ago.
The strong results in our life and health business were offset by the disclosed cat losses and reserved strengthening in Auto and Home.
Life and health earnings increased 8% driven by favorable claim experience as well as a return to a more normalized loss ratio and long-term care.
In recent years we like the industry experienced slower variable Universal Life sales.
However we are now gaining good traction in sales of index Universal Life and now refresh a variable Universal Life product.
Auto and Home continue to have strong policy growth but earnings were impacted by $20 million from Sandy as well as higher reserves from our order book due to increased severity trends in the industry.
Given all the moving pieces in the corporate segment I think it will be helpful to walk through results.
As you can see on Slide 11 we had an $81 million net expense driven by year-end compensation related true ups and higher severance expenses as well as lower investment income related to the bank transaction in the period.
Partially offsetting this was the favorable impact from the $15 million settlement with a third-party service provider.
Capital return has been a strong point of differentiation for Ameriprise.
Our business's mix shift to less capital-intense businesses prudent risk management and capital flexibility enabled Ameriprise to consistently return capital to shareholders in a variety of interest rate and equity market environment.
This lets us consistently grow EPS and return on equity in a variety of macro environments that could potentially pressure revenue growth like sustained lower interest rates.
Looking ahead we will continue to execute this strategy.
In 2013 we expect to return approximately 100% of the earnings to shareholders.
In addition to that we will return approximately $375 million of capital that was freed up from exiting the bank.
During the fourth quarter the holding company received $215 million from the bank transition and we expect to receive the remaining $125 million of capital that is still at the bank this quarter.
In closing this quarter our return on equity reached 16.2% well within our targeted range and we anticipate additional growth in ROE in 2013.
With that I will open up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we have our first question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a question about the outlook for flows.
In the first few weeks of these year despite a big increase in retail equity fund flows for the industry your flows according to the industry data we track remain negative.
Yet when I look at performance metrics there's definitely continued improvement in there and I know Ted spent a fair amount of time at the last Investor Day talking about some of the marketing initiatives.
I was wondering if you could update us on the progress there? Because it seems like you're continuing to lose share.
But I'm not sure why if your fund performance continues to improve the way it has? Okay John we have seen a bit of improvement in the first few weeks in sort of the net flows on some of the funds.
We did experience an allocation change in one of our portfolios based on changing some various pricing that we have on one of the -- on the platforms particularly and we knew that would occur.
Having said that we haven't seen as strong a pickup yet in the equity flows as I think you're alluding to in the industry.
Our fixed income comps has come back a bit from the fourth quarter so we're hoping that there are some signs that this should start to pick up as our wholesalers and our institutional people have that focus.
But I would say we're still a little short of what we saw as an initial pick up in the industry.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then I guess I have a more specific numbers question.
And that's just whether -- I was just wondering whether you'd be willing to quantify for us what the total amount of higher compensation and severance and other sort of catch-up accruals were in the quarter? And how much of that you think we should expect to see on a go-forward basis? Because it does seem like some of that is permanent.
And then also and related to that just what effective tax rate you're using to normalize to $1.51? Okay so let me take the first part of that.
Clearly what happened and as we saw the improvement that took place in the fourth quarter both in our performance and some of that driven by the market we trued up.
So that is really more of a concentration in the quarter as it relates to both the compensation at Columbia and compensation for the company.
So on that amount as we talked about it in my slides you had the 2 elements which are netted down to about the $0.05 and that included the tax benefit offset by around $0.11.
And the appreciable portion of that is really related to the compensation.
Again last year or in the year prior to that we didn't see that effect because obviously the markets were not improving in and we are pretty much spot on on our normal accrual.
But this one we had to accrue up in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Walter is it fair to assume that maybe a couple of pennies of that $0.11 is something we ought to think about as an ongoing? It's spreading there.
Because we know it because actually it's only [ph] above the normal that we would have but there'll be some continuation of its spread throughout the next -- in 2013.
Remember there was certainly an appreciable amount of severances related to the actions that we took in the fourth quarter.
It was above our normal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the tax rate on the $1.51 is that in that 26% to 28% range? That tax rate in the $1.51 is a normalized tax rate for us.
When you look at it that was the adjustments we were trying to give you as you looked at the tax rate we had which we reported in the 17% range and then as we normalize for the DRD and for the DTA discussion.
So the tax rate you should be getting into is on a normalized basis is in the range of around 25% 26%.
And our next question comes from Jay Gelb with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus in on Jim's expense savings opportunity comments.
How much of that should we be building in for 2013 on a gross basis? And then how much do you feel could fall to the bottom line? And I have a separate follow-up.
On the expense saving as we indicated we have the expense saving we have certainly evaluate opportunities with that.
Right at this stage we're assuming that some of that will fall in the bottom line.
But the reality is it's there and we are planning on certainly investing for growth.
But so I can't give you the exact amounts because it really depends on the environment and how we see it.
Research Division</strong> If we were to isolate that into individual segments where would we see most of it potentially? Actually it's concentrated -- it's throughout the company.
But certainly as we indicated Advice and Wealth Management has a reasonable portion of that and so does the Asset Management activity both on the revenue range area and on their expense range area [ph] but there are other parts as it relates to the centralized services that spread throughout all of the segments.
Research Division</strong> I see okay.
And then separately on the personal lines property cash policy enforced growth of 9% that's probably the highest of any of the personal lines companies we're aware of.
Can you talk about what is leading you to gain that share? Well I think as we have seen strong results.
But certainly in the base activity and as they certainly -- the progressive activity has been gaining.
But there's been nothing unusual.
It's certainly -- we've have not -- we've raised our prices.
We've adjusted as we told you so.
So it's a strong performance on the part of the affinity groups and their penetration of it.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about any of the particular successes you're having in affinity at this point? I think it's actually spreads out.
I would say certainly as we are gaining more and more share within Progressive that is certainly one of the elements.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry can you talk about that Progressive relationship then? Oh sure.
That's a relationship that we entered with them to do the property side of it.
It's certainly the home and rental.
And that is something that is continuing to be built with them and that is achieving a good growth and profitability elements within the Auto and Home.
And that was just something started last year in homeowners and rental into 2011.
Not homeowners -- it's homeowners it's not auto that's right.
It's homeowners and rental.
Research Division</strong> For Progressive customers? Yes.
And our next question comes from Alex Blostein of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just to tackle the expense issue I guess one more time.
Walter would it be helpful maybe if to think about it on a consolidated basis.
And let's just focus I guess on the G&amp;A line.
It feels like there are a bunch of things kind of sprinkled across different segments.
But if you look at the call it like the 7 45 reported operating number for this quarter in G&amp;A if you were to isolate these one-time items what do you think I guess is the run rate G&amp;A number for you guys? Assuming market's flat activity's flat without making any other assumptions from a revenue perspective how should we think about G&amp;A for 2013? First let me say when you isolate out on the G&amp;A line we are actually -- versus last year actually a tad under.
So we have certainly managed the expenses quite well.
As we indicated we certainly have with the brokerage.
And we have certainly momentum coming into 2000 to -- as we reduced that expense line and then we have to make the judgment.
So you can look at that as a pretty good run rate.
We'll have the normal inflationary elements that come in and certainly the investment opportunities and we see the growth.
But if that's the base that you should really be coming off.
And with certainly the opportunity to reduce that a little as it relates to the brokerage.
But again we haven't made decisions where we're going to deploy.
Research Division</strong> Okay so sub 7 40 run rate? So it's 7 40 to begin out.
We have inflation of the things coming in.
And certainly in different investment opportunities as it goes there.
But that's a reasonable base to start with.
But we have a tight focus on our expenses.
Alex what I would say is that we're going to continue to maintain a very tight expense focus.
But we're continuing to invest.
We will have volume increases as we grow certain businesses adding advisors and doing such other things.
We are continuing to upgrade some of our infrastructure across the company.
So what I would say is we're going to maintain a tight expense focus.
And depending on what happens in the year from a revenue perspective will depend on how we would fluctuate that.
But even if things picked up we still don't want expenses to start to grow again at an any accelerated rate.
So I would say our going is to maintain sort of the levels that we have make investments use some of the savings like we have from the brokerage platform et cetera to continue to invest in certain other things like in AWM bringing in more advisors on and doing some things like that in some of the advertising work.
But I would say it's going to maintain the type of expense focus that we've had.
Research Division</strong> Got you helpful.
And then just another point I wanted to clarify when you guys think about the buyback and well I appreciating your comments on I guess the $375 million being the extra.
And that's the capital is being kind of dividend up from bank.
So is this fair to think about the quarterly pace being similar to what you've done so kind of like $350 million-ish [ph] a quarter in buybacks? And in addition to that we should incorporate the $375 million thinking for the full year? Okay let me -- as I said not to get into exact forecasting but we said that we are going to target 100% -- approximately 100% of our earnings in 2013 plus the $375 million.
So last year obviously we were way beyond that.
And so I don't want to get into forecast of what our earnings are but the issue is on that basis.
I would think that the level that you saw in the quarter probably would be a reasonably good trend line.
Research Division</strong> Okay helpful.
And when you guys talk about 100% of earnings just to clarify that's the buyback or the total payouts of the dividend and the buyback? Okay.
As we relate to 100% the 100% is really both the dividend and the buyback and the $375 million goes on top of that.
Research Division</strong> Cool.
Perfect.
And then one business question for you guys.
So I know Ted talked in the past about getting more presence on different distribution networks and it's understandably it's probably a slower-moving process.
But can you give us an update on where you stand with major warehouses and how the product is being placed there? How the conversation is going with some of the gate keepers? And when we could actually see some movement on that front? We're gaining some traction in some of the intermediary platforms.
There's 2 or 3 that we just got access to with the certain accounts that we think we'll fund and there's a number of others in the pipeline.
So this will take a bit more time to build because it's a process to get reviewed and to look at those particular funds and see where they would fit in over time.
But I think the team is starting to gain some traction but this is going to be a build over the course of the year.
And our next question is from Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow-up a bit more on the capital management.
At your investor day there was a fair amount of discussion about basically redeploying free cash flow plus the capital from the bank plus actually beginning to work off some of the $2 billion excess.
And so I'm just trying to reconcile about the comments today.
I guess if you do 100% of earnings that's a bit north of the free cash flow.
Because free cash flow I guess is 90% of earnings.
So is that a difference between 90% of earnings and 100% of earnings represent that sort of use of sort of a down payment of using excess capital? Or how are you thinking about drawing down the excess at this point? As I recall we were indicating certainly as a company retaining on a permanent basis the excess was not in our strategy and we would start then as we look at different opportunities start evaluating returning it.
I think we said for 2013 specifically we were targeting at least at this stage to do the 100% end year cracked.
And 90% you get that differential on the 90% of base to free cash flow but -- plus the $375 million as at least our thinking as of this moment.
And then we're evaluating if there's going to be anything else based upon circumstances as we look at different situations.
But that we want to give everybody at least that level that we will be going out with.
So it's not really -- this is not like the start of the down payment in my opinion.
It was just consistent with what we said at this FCM [ph].
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you want to retain some flexibility that could be directed in a -- as you place this as you go forward.
That's correct.
We have our next question from Thomas Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question on Advice &amp; Wealth Jim you had mentioned a 20% cash balance build within the wrap accounts.
Just curious how we should be thinking about that.
Is that going to -- has that already constrained margins? Is there going to be a lag effect? And will we see some level of additional interest rate headwind from that? Any way you guys can frame how we should be thinking about that heading into '13 that's my first question.
The increase we had is in our brokerage cash balances.
And we had some very good client inflows over the course of the latter part of last year overall.
And you know initially as those inflows come in they go into brokerage cash and then they get reallocated.
We did see a bit of a pickup just from tax selling and other things at the end of the year.
So my belief is that as people start to really think about where they are in the new year that money will start to get reallocated.
So a part of it was we got good client inflows and part of it was from sort of the tax situation and the idea that people didn't know what exactly was going to happen due to the tax situation from the fiscal cliff.
So I would say that we're probably thinking that that will start to get reallocated into various portfolios as well as into certain products as we go into the new year here.
So there's nothing on a drag basis.
It could probably be positive as those assets are redeployed.
Because as you know the cash spread is lower now.
If the cash rates go up over time meaning on a short-term basis that would be a big upside for us particularly with the size of the cash balances we have.
And so I think that would be more of a positive depending on how you look at the interest rate if it stayed there environment.
If it didn't that will go back to work and that would be positive as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's clear.
So more of a revenue in margin tailwind when you think about relative to 4Q going forward? Yes.
We think as clients become more confident -- I mean the confidence certainly it didn't come off that way but I think we start to see and we saw some money going back into the markets in January.
So if that continues yes we would see this.
But we did see a level of activity pick up in the fourth quarter and I don't think that was all the due to tax selling et cetera.
People started to come back.
We saw some of our variable annuities come back on stream as people got more familiar input.
And even in our insurance sales and some of the equity product increased.
So I think we're probably seeing a tilt towards that and I think that cash will be utilized.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a related question.
Walter any any updated guidance for low interest rate sensitivity? Or is that I think it was what $50 million to $55 million? Was the drag expected for '13? Is that still intact or has that changed at all? It's actually changed a little on that basis.
Should figure it's about in a $70 million using that after tax around $75 million.
Research Division</strong> $75 million got it.
And then Walter just on the corporate segment I think looking at this year we were thinking the normalized loss rate was $60 million to $65 million.
Can you just comment how we should be thinking about that into '13? Okay.
If you were looking coming off the fourth quarter obviously the fourth quarter had the items reflected as it relates to severance which is in corporate.
And then some of the performance compensation true up is there.
So in that range it's I would say -- what was the number you used? Research Division</strong> $60 million to $65 million? I would say it's a little higher than $60 million $65 million but not much.
It's in that range $65 million $70 million.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess lastly the comment on the multi-year fixed annuity block that can get repriced in 2014 how big is that? And how much of an earnings pickup can that potentially represent as you look out into '14? And I guess what I'm trying to get at is could that fully stop the bleeding at an additional low-rate earnings headwind heading into 2014? Or can you give some color on that? Sure.
Okay as you relate to it's 2013 and '14.
It starts in the tail end of '13 and '14.
It will have an appreciable impact on it.
It will basically I would say our impact would be probably cut by 70% 80%.
And that is something that obviously the fixed annuity block I think is about $4 billion additional impact.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So you're talking about maybe getting an extra $50 million to $60 million of margin back or something along those lines? Is that about right? If you do the math on that that's right.
Because if you're doing the $75 million I told you and take them out you'll leave like $15 million.
So $60 million will come back yes.
That's probably right yes.
On a rate basis.
Strictly on a rate -- right? And now we have a question from John Hall with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I've got 2 questions.
Real quickly on the bank I was wondering who provided the approval for the deregistration.
And just -- what will the timeframe between applying for the deregistration and actually receiving it? Again I'm not going to -- it's interesting the OCC and the Fed I think they work in conjunction.
I can't really give you the specifics.
I think it's probably -- the final came out of the Fed.
But I -- we'll verify that.
And the process on this one we started in about and I think it was in the second quarter -- second quarter we got into all the filings and everything.
So...
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just some questions about capital and the excess capital.
Jim Walter philosophically what are your thoughts about using some of that excess capital maybe to segue your way out of underperforming insurance businesses like long-term care? Listen we certainly had that's an opportunity if we chose to do it.
The block as we said is not strategically part of our go-forward.
We are evaluating we are certainly increasing.
But at this stage we are constantly evaluating in discussions but it's nothing there really has gotten to the point where we feel we get the value for it.
And it is something we could use it for but certainly we feel that we don't have to.
But we are continuing to evaluate.
And certainly as the interest rates start improving that will change the entire situation which we indicated.
But at this stage I think right now it's in the best shareholder interest to continue where it is because we've seen nothing that make sense to us.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right fair enough.
If I look at the allocated capital distribution by business line on I guess Page 8 in the supplement there was some moving parts.
You can see that the allocated capital on the Advice &amp; Wealth went down I assumed that's the bank shutting down.
It went up in the corporate line it also went down in the annuity line.
I was wondering if you could just offer a rationale as to why over the course of the year there's less allocated capital to the annuity business? Well the annuity we are basically shifting or  shifted and basically looking out deferred tax assets.
So there's a couple of adjustments.
I think there was just about $100 million coming through on that line.
We are and I think as Alicia said we are evaluating all aspects of that.
As Rick [ph] says there's a lot of moving parts.
There's no strategic business change or any it's really just adjustments coming through.
And in the first quarter we'll come out with a more comprehensive look at it but it's directionally.
There's certainly a valve but there is nothing of any consequences related to an underlying factor that drove it other than adjustments with DTA and some of the reserves that this came through.
And you are correct.
In the AWM it was clearly the bank adjustment there.
Our next question comes from Ryan Bodkins [ph] with Citigroup.
Given your excess capital where your debt was trading and the availability on the financing markets have you considered options to lower your interest expense while extending maturities? By attempting to tender? I'm not sure what your question was.
Just given where some of the coupons are and where the debt is trading there's a variety of options.
Yes we looked at that.
Okay I got it.
We looked at that.
We don't feel really that's an effective use at this stage.
Certainly we have a very large debt maturity coming up in 2015 and we have a small one in 2014.
We feel that certainly the carrying course or appropriate where it is and to attempt to go in and actually go into market it didn't make sense to us at this stage and look at the premiums and other things associated with that.
So the answer is we will -- we're evaluating capital structure we're doing interest rate situation but we feel pretty comfortable where we are right now.
And so the short -- I guess the answer to deploying our access against that was something evaluated and decided it didn't make sense from shareholder standpoint.
We now have a question from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question is again on the capital.
So if I look at 2012 it looks like you did $1.3 billion of share repurchase.
If I look at my 2013 number for earnings and I back out the dividend and then add in the bank capital my base case would suggest that you're going to do another $1.3 billion in buyback in '13 so basically flat year-on-year.
And I just want to reconcile that with what you said in the FCM [ph] which was given your capital position you wanted to accelerate the pace of share repurchase in '13 versus '12.
I think directionally your numbers are right.
It's certainly on that basis as you did the math.
I believe that we were saying for 2013 we were giving that sort of guidance where it would be and that we would then reserve the right to start accelerating above that.
But as we talked about the for the quarter for the year that that would be where you should think would be the amount of purchase going there.
Because certainly in 2012 we were way beyond the 100% and we were just saying we would -- you should assume we'll go back to the original guidance we set on time we would do which is 100% and then we would add the $375 million on to it and then evaluate the options to really see if we would want to accelerate it.
So I think -- I personally think I'm consistent with the FCM [ph] but I will certainly -- that's the way I intend it to come through.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So we should think about the $1.3 billion based on my math as like the minimum that you would do.
And then as we move through the year clearly there could be some upside to that? Yes.
I think Suneet the way Walter conveyed it which is consistent with the way we were thinking about it at the FCM [ph] was that over time we do not necessarily see a need to maintain the excess position the way we are.
And so we would definitely view that some of that excess position would decrease.
The reason it hasn't up to this point is because Walter and my business people have been doing a very good job of what I would call a freeing up capital within the overall structure that we have.
So as an example if we did not de-bank we would still have the capital of the bank and probably increase capital in the bank.
And then we would use the earnings and probably draw down some of the excess.
So as we start this year just like  when we started last year and we get out of things like outside annuities et cetera we started to free up more capital and then we returned that as part of an excess over the earnings.
So we're just starting this year in a similar vein.
We'll see what happens.
But I would say over the next number of years I would say we would probably draw it down unless we're able to even free up more capital and lower our capital requirements from either mix shift or some other things that we're able to do.
So that's the way we think about it and that's why we've been able to return more than our earnings over the last few years.
And if we aren't successful in actually derisking our balance sheet et cetera you would've probably seen a drawdown of the excess now based on the amount that we did choose to return in discussions that I have with my board.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
My second question is on the Advice &amp; Wealth business.
So if I go back to the last quarter's earnings call Jim I think you've mentioned that as it relates to the experienced advisor recruits that you'd tracked their progress based on vintages.
And I was very interested in that comment because I've been tracking your experienced advisor recruits over the past couple of years.
And I guess what I'm wondering is in terms of the productivity lift that we're seeing just from this cohort just -- excuse me from this experienced advisor recruit component is it fair to say that we're only really seeing the impacts of like the 2010 class which I think you -- where I think you added 248 of these advisors and then the '11 and '12 classes which were in excess of 300 really haven't quite kicked in yet? And that sort of productivity lift that's on the come is that the right way to think about it? What you have is for someone let's say added in 2012 you'll start -- they start to transfer their book over.
It's not as though they take a little time to transfer the book and then they start to get active again.
And so what you see is a build for each one of those vintages.
So if you go back to your point of 2010 in '13 they should be probably fully ramped up.
In 2012 they were probably maybe 2/3 ramped up.
And so you'll see that build.
The people who came on 2012 would start to get ramped up in '13 but more in '14 and '15.
And so that's exactly what you would see as a vintage build.
Now it does vary by advisor it varies by the type of book they have and the type of clientele.
And so there's not sort of a one-size-fits-all.
But I think on a vintage basis you sort of get to a fuller run rate a full run rate by the third year in the third year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess that means that as we go forward we should start to see this come through pretty nicely because you've been ramping up the EARs since 2010? Yes you will see that.
And I would also say that even last year at the beginning part of the year we did have some good advisor ramp up in productivity from our EARs.
I think what offset that was that there was this lower level of activity in our system including with our change in our variable annuity product that slowed down a lot of our transaction volume.
And so I think it's buried within there.
But as we look at the vintages and look at the advisors that come on board we are seeing good nice ramp up in the productivity.
And our final question comes from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I was -- Suneet took the words out of my mouth in the follow-up on the capital returns so I have no more questions.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the first quarter 2013 earnings call.
My name is Lorraine and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Alicia Charity.
Ms.
Charity you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial's first quarter earnings call.
On the call with me today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we'll be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear various references to non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the company's operations.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today’s materials available on our website.
Some statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management’s expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today’s date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today’s earnings release our 2012 annual report to shareholders and our 2012 10-K report.
We take no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I will turn it over to Jim.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
I'm going to provide my perspective on the business.
Walter will follow my remarks with a review of our results and then we'll take your questions.
Yesterday afternoon we reported good first quarter earnings.
Overall Ameriprise is performing well.
Assets are up across the firm and we're generating very strong results in our Wealth Management business.
We're executing on our strategy investing in our growth areas and strengthening our position in our core businesses.
In terms of the economic environment I feel better than I did a year ago.
Equity markets are stronger in the United States and the economy is on a more stable ground and growing slowly.
Across Europe the markets are a bit weaker consistent with the economic environment there.
However we're managing the headwinds caused by very low interest rates although this pressure has been offset by gains in the equity markets.
Walter will take you through the numbers in detail but our financial results reflect a good start to the year.
On an operating basis net revenues grew to $2.6 billion due to strong growth in our fee-based businesses offsetting the negative impact from rates in the loss of the bank-related revenues.
Our earnings were $338 million with earnings per share of $1.59.
And return on equity increased to 16.4% which is an all-time high for us.
We expect to see ROE continue to improve over the next few quarters.
In addition our assets under management and administration grew to a record high of $708 billion.
We're maintaining our strong capital position generating good free cash flow and increasing our capital return to shareholders.
During the quarter we returned $454 million to shareholders including repurchasing $360 million of our common stock.
As we've said we intend to return the majority of our earnings to our shareholders annually including the capital freed up from the bank.
And we plan to do so in a balanced way based on the environment and the share price.
As you saw in the earnings release we announced that we're increasing our dividend another 15%.
With regard to capital we're focused on our core businesses and returning capital to shareholders in a prudent manner.
We often look at acquisition opportunities and how they can complement our business.
But at this point we don't see any large properties in the marketplace that meet our acquisition criteria.
With that let me turn to the business.
Our highlights for the first quarter reflect our progress opportunities for further growth and our continued focus on areas of improvement.
Advice &amp; Wealth Management is producing excellent results as we continue our growth from 2012 into the first quarter.
Operating net revenues increased 7% to $1 billion driven by record retail client net inflows and market appreciation.
Operating net revenues increased 10% excluding former banking operations and operating PTI increased 39% and adjusted for the bank it would have been 66%.
Operating margin increased to 12.9% due to the increase in productivity our effective expense management and savings we targeted from our reduced technology spend.
In fact the 12.9% number included both the impact of lower interest rates on cash balances from a year ago as well as the loss of the bank.
Ameriprise advisor client assets grew by 11% to $372 billion driven by strong net inflows and equity market appreciation.
Client activity continue to pick up with exceptionally strong wrap net inflows growing to $4.1 billion which is 41% higher than a year ago.
Productivity is also up nicely with operating net revenue per advisor excluding former bank operations growing 9%.
Importantly our advisor force remains strong retention and satisfaction rates are high.
We continue to recruit good productive and experienced advisors.
Because of better markets in the year-end tax season recruiting has slowed in the first quarter which is consistent with others in the industry.
We do however see a good opportunity to continue to bring in more quality advisors this year.
We're investing in our growth areas building our brand through advertising and increasing efficiency through the tools and technologies we provide advisors.
The Ameriprise name was highly visible in the first quarter.
We launched the next phase of our national advertising campaign with spots airing during high-profile sports and entertainment programming and online video ads.
In fact our ad awareness has doubled with our campaign so we're seeing terrific results there.
We also released our latest retirement survey a continuation of our Retirement Check-In series to provide research and support to our advisors and demonstrate our position as a retirement thought leader in the industry.
With regard to our technology platform which includes our new brokerage platform as well as all of our online capabilities we're now focused on helping advisors leverage the benefits of the full suite.
This is a priority for us over the next 18 to 24 months.
We invested in this system because we believe it can help our advisors grow productivity and when utilized fully it will lower costs and enhance our overall client and advisor experience.
One of our largest opportunities for growth is in the retirement space where we're already a leader.
We're focused on serving the consumers' overall retirement goals.
In fact we brought out a more consumer-friendly approach to enhance our go-to-market positioning.
We call it our Confident Retirement approach.
It has tested very well with our advisors and consumers and we've just begun to roll it out across our system.
Advisors who are using it are finding it to be a very effective way of deepening current relationships and developing new ones.
We're putting a concerted effort towards implementing this more broadly over the next 2 years.
Overall it was a very good quarter for Advice &amp; Wealth Management and we're pleased with the progress we're making in the business.
With good flows in productivity as well as our continued expense management efforts and even with the headwinds from low interest rates margin is expanding nicely.
In Asset Management we're building on our 2 strong footholds in the United States and Europe and establishing a strong global Asset Management business.
We're delivering good financial performance while managing a period of outflows which I'll discuss further in a moment.
Our assets under management were up 2% sequentially to $466 billion driven by market appreciation.
However that included the negative impact of foreign exchange which was sizable in the quarter.
Operating PTI increased 10% reflecting market appreciation and the benefits we're realizing from our revenue and expense reengineering efforts.
And the adjusted net pretax operating margin grew to 34.6% from 33.3% a year ago.
We have a good product platform in Asset Management which we're continuing to invest in and grow in particular within global equities and asset allocation products.
Meanwhile we're maintaining consistent competitive investment performance which remains a priority for us.
Regarding flows Walt will cover the numbers for the quarter.
But I wanted to take a moment to explain how we think about Asset Management the overall strategy we're executing and what you can expect from a business perspective.
Both of our major acquisitions Threadneedle and Columbia gave us asset managers with meaningful portions of assets under management which included mandates from their former parents.
That created unique flow characteristics that we continue to manage today.
Threadneedle is part of Zurich and it manages a significant level of insurance-affiliated assets.
Our objective was to leverage Threadneedle's investment platform and asset base to build strong third-party related distribution in both retail and institutional capabilities to grow higher fee business while managing legacy assets.
We've been successful in doing this.
Today legacy insurance mandates represent a much smaller percentage of Threadneedle's assets under management.
This relationship is important but we do expect to experience approximately $3 billion to $4 billion in outflows of these assets annually given the nature of the book.
That said as we look at the business overall and invest to grow Threadneedle inflows are higher fee and we're seeing that dynamic come through in the P&amp;L.
Like Threadneedle Columbia had a level of assets directly associated with its former parent as well as assets that were influenced by relationships with the bank or its affiliates.
We approached the transaction in a similar manner to Threadneedle to build on the existing asset and client base leverage strong investment performance and product offerings and expand third-party and institutional distribution relationships.
While outflows of assets directly associated with the bank's pension and institutional area are largely behind us we continue to experience several billion of ongoing outflows annually from our relationship with the bank and bank-affiliated distribution.
In addition we expect some level of outflows from a key subadvisor.
The core of the Columbia business is strong.
We're beginning to make good progress on growing in third-party and institutional.
We have good traction in our focus funds and we are working to expand this more broadly across our intermediary platforms.
As well as we're building a broader institutional pipeline and beginning to win more institutional mandates.
Looking ahead we expect flows to improve gradually this year.
Here's what you can expect from an overall business perspective.
Both Threadneedle and Columbia will experience outflows from assets that were directly or indirectly affiliated with the former parent companies the majority being lower-fee business.
We'll leverage our platforms to build flows through third-party distribution in both the retail and the institutional channels.
We're organizing the efforts of Columbia and Threadneedle to use the strengths of the investment teams to better compete in the global marketplace with high demand products such as emerging markets asset allocation and global.
We're always focused on generating consistently strong investment performance building on the product portfolio of 118 4- and 5-star funds.
In fact Columbia won 5 new Lipper Awards in the quarter.
Reengineering remains a priority to maintain good profitability and margins as our flows evolve.
And finally we will make decisions to drive profitable net inflows.
For example we are executing our plan to align share classes with certain distribution channels.
In the case of our RIA changes it may impact flows in the near term in exchange for improved earnings.
Overall I'm optimistic about this business and what we can do with this business.
We have talented people good investment processes solid performance and expanding distribution.
We're focused on gaining flows and building from the strong foundation we have in place over the medium term.
Let's move to Annuities and insurance.
In Annuities our business is strong and performing well.
We're generating good returns on a business that has a good risk profile with strong hedging.
Our flows are improving in our new volatility control product.
In addition we're building out the product line by launching 3 new managed volatility funds to help serve an even broader range of client and advisor needs.
As we move forward we'll also emphasize variable annuities without a living benefit rider to add to our already strong book.
We're launching 21 new investment options including more advice embedded solutions new asset classes like alternatives and commodities and more funds and asset classes where tax deferral is valuable.
This is a good business for us and we're looking to grow this book again.
With regard to fixed annuities they continue to be in net outflows due to the effects of the interest rate climate and the reduced client appetite for these products.
As we look to 2014 we'll be able to reprice a portion of the book that will take some of the pressure from this product line off our margins.
In Protection our insurance business is also performing well with good profitability in the quarter.
We have a diversified portfolio that is mostly comprised of variable universal life cash value-focused universal life disability insurance and term products that are not significantly impacted by the interest rate environment.
We're beginning to see a nice pickup in sales of life products with cash sales growing 12% year-over-year.
We're also pleased to see sales grow in our variable universal life product as well as continued steady growth in our indexed universal life.
In Ameriprise Auto and Home we had solid policy growth of 9% from our affinity partners and within the Ameriprise channel resulting in premiums growing nicely up 7%.
Expenses were well managed; however momentum was affected by increased reserves for an auto liability loss development.
Client satisfaction retention for Auto and Home remains strong.
To summarize we had a good quarter.
We continue to execute the strategy we laid out for you in November and we're making good progress.
We're investing to maintain good capabilities while maintaining tight control of expenses.
Now I'd like to hand things over to Walter for a detailed review of the numbers.
Thank you Jim.
Ameriprise delivered strong financial results particularly in our key areas of growth: Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management.
These 2 segments represent 60% of our total revenues and grew 8% on a combined basis when you normalize for exiting the bank.
In Protection and Annuities revenues grew in line with our expectations particularly in light of continued low interest rates.
Let's turn to earnings on Slide 4.
Pretax earnings from Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management together increased over 30% excluding bank earnings in the 2012 quarter.
Similar to the revenue picture we are seeing the same trend for operating pretax earnings in these segments.
Let's turn to EPS on Slide 5.
Excluding the bank we had a solid 13% growth in operating EPS to $1.59 per share.
As we said we plan to return 100% plus of earnings to shareholders this year plus the $375 million freed up from exiting the bank.
The return of capital associated with the bank will effectively offset the lost bank earnings from an EPS perspective by year end.
However because of timing earnings per share was impacted $0.04 on a year-over-year basis.
Return on equity hit an all-time high in the quarter at 16.4%.
And we see an opportunity for further ROE expansion in 2013 and over the longer term.
Moving to the segment discussions.
In Advice &amp; Wealth Management the strong year-over-year PTI growth trends were driven by underlying fundamentals of the business.
Client assets grew 11% to $372 billion and we had record wrap net inflows of $4.1 billion.
Advisor metrics were strong.
We continue to recruit high-quality experienced advisors with continued high retention rates.
Advisor productivity reached a record high of 104 000.
In the quarter low interest rate had a negative impact of $10 million on our earnings year-over-year.
The impact of low rates will be approximately $10 million per quarter for the balance of the year.
As Jim said we remain focused on managing expenses.
Excluding the bank G&amp;A expenses were down 3% primarily from the wind-down of the brokerage platform conversion expense.
Year-over-year new brokerage platform related expenses declined $8 million though a nominal amount of training expense will remain for the next quarter or 2.
We'll continue to invest in business growth initiatives but we do not see any projects of this magnitude in the near term.
One of the most compelling results in the quarter is the AWM margin which on a reported basis was 12.9% up 300 basis points.
Good results in their own right.
If we exclude the bank from the prior quarter margins would've expanded 430 basis points over the prior year.
Turning to Asset Management.
We had solid earnings of $144 million up 10% over last year.
We're able to deliver earnings growth despite being in outflows by reengineering our revenue and expense bases.
In the quarter we had 1 less fee day which impacted revenue growth and profitability.
Overall operating expenses were up 4% primarily from the impact of market appreciation on distribution fees and G&amp;A expenses remain well-controlled.
As always we will continue to focus on both revenue and expense reengineering opportunities to maintain solid profitability and margins make the necessary choices particularly around fee levels to ensure our flows are profitable and execute the strategies necessary to achieve positive flows.
Let's turn to flows in more detail on the next slide.
In the quarter we had a total of $5.7 billion of outflows.
This was higher than anticipated but consistent with prior patterns of outflows in a few specific areas.
For retail overall flows were flat with a strong $1.7 billion of inflows at Threadneedle.
This was driven by strong consumer confidence and good sales in a few key products particularly in Europe.
We recognize that U.S.
retail flows remained a challenge.
First a large distribution partner continued to rebalance asset concentrations.
Second we had continued outflows from a third-party subadvisor.
As we mentioned last quarter we're also taking actions to improve the profitability of flows by changing the share class that we are offering in the RIA channel.
This resulted in outflows this quarter and we expect to see more over the next few quarters.
For institutional outflows were high at $5.5 billion though primarily from low fee assets.
At Threadneedle $2.2 billion of the outflows were largely from normal outflows from legacy insurance assets and also included $1 billion from a mandate in Japan that we've previously disclosed.
For institutional at Columbia there were approximately $1 billion of outflows from low basis point assets including Balboa.
In addition several clients took money off the table in both investment-grade and high-yield credit mandates given strong performance in these asset classes.
Turning to Annuities.
Operating pretax earnings was $156 million which was in line with our expectation.
Variable annuity operating pretax earnings were $109 million down 18% from the prior year period.
First quarter results were impacted by a $7 million higher DAC amortization and benefits expense related to our third quarter 2012 unlocking which we had discussed last quarter.
And additionally there was $10 million less favorable mean reversion compared to a year ago.
And the prior year period included a $20 million favorable actuarial model adjustment.
In fixed annuities operating pretax earnings declined $9 million.
The pressure from low interest rates continued to impact the fixed annuity block.
In the first quarter the impact from low interest rates was $17 million on a gross basis.
Partially offsetting this was a benefit to investment income from the accretion associated with assets transferred from the bank in the fourth quarter.
We expect the pretax earnings impact of low interest rates to be $15 million to $20 million per quarter for fixed annuities.
By year end we will begin lowering our interest rate exposure by resetting rates on a large 5-year guarantee block of fixed annuities.
As previously mentioned we adopted a new methodology for allocating equity to our product lines in the quarter.
The new methodology reflects the higher requirements of rating agencies or regulators and also allocates contingent capital for stress scenarios mainly to support our variable annuity book.
This quarter the Annuity segment's return on equity was a strong 16.2%.
Moving to Protection on Slide 10.
Operating pretax earnings were in line with our expectations at $110 million.
The continued strong results in our Life &amp; Health businesses were offset by lower earnings for Auto and Home.
Life &amp; Health earnings were strong in the quarter from favorable disability and long-term care claims experience.
It was a good quarter for sales.
Both variable universal life and indexed universal life sales were up after refreshing our product last year.
Auto and Home has continued strong new policy sales growth across market segments primarily from our affinity relationships with Costco and Progressive.
However earnings were a bit lower as we built reserves related to prior year loss development.
The Protection segment generated a strong 16.7% operating return on allocated equity in the period.
Let's turn to capital on the next slide.
We returned $454 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase in the first quarter.
We have been able to consistently return more than 100% of earnings to shareholders due to our business mix shift risk management capabilities and strong balance sheet fundamentals.
For the rest of 2013 we anticipate that our capital actions will drive continued ROE expansion and will neutralize the EPS impact of exiting the bank by the year end.
As Jim said we announced that our board of directors has approved an increase to our quarterly dividend to $0.52 per share after our regular annual dividend review.
This dividend brings us to a 2.9% dividend yield and is in line with our strategy to move towards a greater portion of our capital returned in the form of shareholder dividends.
With that we will take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the environment for recruiting new advisors and whether you view the slowdown in hiring this quarter as a blip or is it becoming more difficult to attract the advisors you're targeting? And I guess related to that do you expect any impact if new disclosure rules for compensation packages offered to advisors or advisor recruits go into effect? Well what we've seen is we've started to experience a little slowdown at the end of the year and the first part of this year.
And we think that's consistent -- and you probably heard this from some others because the market did pick up there were a lot of changes at the end of the year because of fiscal policy and tax policy and there's a number of things that I think because of dividends and reinvestments that people were much more focused on how they're going to manage their portfolios.
So we saw that a bit more this year than we did in previous years.
I think that's across the industry.
Having said that we still have a good pipeline that's starting to rebuild as people come out of this period.
And we think that we will be able to ramp it up a bit as we go through the following quarters.
We've also been focused a bit more on higher productive people and so that area is always a bit more competitive.
But we've been really attracting some quality people into our franchise.
Regarding the new disclosure rules depending on what they ultimately decide it will initially have some effects I would think as people start to think about how they would disclose information in regard to their clients and what that would mean to them.
Having said that I think it could actually work as a benefit over time in a sense that there's a lot of -- people move between wirehouses and there's a question of why do they do that? Are they doing it just for compensation or for a change in environment? In our case as we attract people over we're attracting people who are actually coming over to work in a little different model with a bit more advice proposition.
And we think we can probably help them explain to their clients what we would provide them that would actually help them work with their clients even more fully.
So it would be a change.
I think any change always has an effect.
Having said that I think there are some good things that we could highlight that would explain why those people are making the change to move.
So we'll see where it goes as far as what the regulator ultimately decides.
But we are preparing ourselves to deal with that effectively.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then if I could just ask one quick one on the Asset Management side.
You talk about a lot of the outflows being in the low-margin assets.
I was just hoping you could give us a sense of the margin difference between kind of what you're seeing on the institutional outflows; and then on the retail assets where you are seeing inflows? So just kind of a rough margin differential between the 2.
Well I think we could break it down to just 1 or 2 components in institutional that Walter mentioned.
So -- and I'll separate the Threadneedle from Columbia just for a moment.
Clearly we still have the $2.2 billion of outflows from Zurich-related assets.
One was a mandate that we recognized a little incremental from our normal flow picture.
But on an ongoing basis these are closed books et cetera.
And there is always a drawdown of assets.
We have explained in the past that the fee basis even though it's a good level for us to generate profitability is much lower than new institutional mandates that we do win in the international marketplace.
And therefore the flow picture always looks whether even if it's a breakeven at a point it's a real positive for us if we're bringing that in through the new mandates through the third-party institutions.
Columbia is a little similar in that regard.
There were bank-related like Balboa that they sold off that insurance book there were bank-related affiliate distribution related to their institutional activities that also have very low basis points.
And those compared to new institutional mandates are significantly different.
Now the one thing we did get affected in the first quarter that was of higher fee to us were some mandates that we had in the credit area not because we didn't have good performance we have excellent performance but because there was a rotation out of some of that area at the very beginning of the year when everyone thought rates would start to back up et cetera.
And so we experienced that rebalancing.
Now the good news is from what was freed up including some capacity in these areas we do have wins that will be funded in the second quarter it just didn't time correctly.
And you can never count on the timing of those things.
So we do see some improvement in that regard from what I would call the third-party institutional.
It doesn't mean that we won't continue to get affected by what I would call the ex-parent stuff including here with Columbia.
And that's an effect.
And the retail distribution as you know retail always has different fee structures than the institutional.
However some of those fee structures for outflows are again through bank relationships as well as through subadvisor.
And so their fee adjustments will be slightly different than it would be if we're winning a new third-party that doesn't have some of those fee structures attached to it.
And the last point was -- Walter made on the RIA.
RIA we were selling the wrong share class when we actually took this over.
And even though we will experience outflows as we did in the first quarter over time this will actually be a better business for us.
But we felt appropriate to make those changes.
So there's a confluence of events that really hit in the first quarter.
Having said that we're continuing to be very focused on building flows in what we would call more profitable businesses as well as expanding the distribution through the third-party retail and institutional.
But we will still experience outflows from the ex-parent.
Now having said that we've got a good base we continue to reengineer to offset some of those losses.
And at the end of the day I think we can get back into a growing business but yes right now it's going to take a little time particularly if you look at the overall flow picture.
And our next question comes from Nigel Dally from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First question with the improvement in advisor productivity.
Can you discuss whether that -- whether you expect that to be sustained or -- with some of the client activity perhaps a little abnormal given the fiscal cliff and then the rush to push -- to put cash back to work in the past couple of quarters? What we saw again is -- let me start with a little longer-term and then what we saw in the quarter.
What we saw longer-term is that we've been getting very good strong inflows into the company from a client perspective over the last year.
And we've also seen some strong inflows consistently into our wrap business.
I think the first quarter this year was exceptionally strong.
Now 2 things a little to even out sort of that trend a little bit.
We did see a pickup in cash holding cash at the end of the year as dividends were more significant as well as people maintaining some of their cash to see what happens at the end of the year.
But if you looked at our balances our cash balances are very high still and they only went down about a $1 billion that rotated back in through the wrap business.
So I would say overall we still see a good trend of new business coming in they're going into the wrap fee-based area.
And our cash balances are still at an -- abnormally high even though they've come down a little from the end of the year.
So as long as markets don't ratchet tremendously we don't see a fundamental change in that at this point in time.
In regard to some of the current period activity it's picked up a little on a transaction but there it's not at a high level yet.
And so again I think as people feel more confident and start thinking about longer term we may see a further pickup there.
But again that all depends on environment as well as market conditions.
But I would say what we're experienced in productivity from the fourth quarter to the first quarter I don't see a fundamental change.
I can't predict.
Summer months always slow down a little bit.
But that's as we look further out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second just going back to the issue with regards to flows.
As you mentioned in your comments most of the outflows continue to rate to BofA Balboa Moscow [ph] and Zurich.
So out of your $430 billion-or-so of assets under management is it possible to get details as to how much of the AUM relates to those buckets? If not in isolation at least in aggregate? Okay.
I think we could probably -- we'll actually see if we can -- what we can put together.
I think we disclosed now we're separating out and giving you a line item to talk about Zurich.
I think we don't like to break out sensitivity on client per se.
But I think what we could do is probably give you at least a perspective on some of these affiliated type areas.
But let me check with the group and see what we can do to provide some information.
What we did try to say to you clearly in this quarter is what Zurich will continue to mean to us.
So don't get me wrong there's replenishment in a sense of what that basis of assets and as it appreciate et cetera.
But there will be an ongoing -- it's consistent from the day we bought Zurich -- Threadneedle from Zurich.
So I don't see that fundamentally changing as long as we have that mandate which is a good relationship.
In Columbia I think it's going to be similar.
You have some of these low fee type of institutional businesses that were part of bank relationships.
And I think that has come down a lot but there are still billions left there.
But they're at very low fee basis points like Balboa.
And then there are the ongoing relationships including things like the U.S.
Trust that will be a good relationship that we want to continue to focus on and invest in.
But just based on the starting point of that being a primary asset manager for the business we will have experienced normal outflows as that business continues to diversify a bit.
So we'll see what we can provide you moving forward.
But I wanted to be clear upfront here that on an ongoing basis for both of those it will be a few billion each.
But we believe that we could manage that and we believe that as we continue to redeploy our focus and resources for building that we'll offset that particularly on a fee basis moving forward.
And our next question comes from Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jim thanks for the update on your appetite for deals I think it's helpful.
But I guess broadly it may be helpful to kind of revisit how you guys think about excess capital with respect to deals as you kind of continue to look for maybe other opportunities.
So I mean Walter I think you highlighted $2 billion of excess capital.
I think you guys removed the ploy [ph] but I don't know if it's intentionally or not.
But can we think about the $2 billion again if it's available for deals you guys will look at everything but over time if there are no deals you'll continue to return kind of 100% of earnings plus over time we'll be dipping into the $2 billion cushion? I think you said that very well.
So yes that is exactly how we're thinking about it.
It doesn't mean that we won't look.
But as I said unless there's something that we feel is really appropriate for us that will further strategically add value and that we can get a good return for shareholders our primary will be continuing to return to shareholders through buyback and dividend as we've been doing.
So no change in that direction.
Walter? Yes.
The only thing I would add Alex -- excuse me it's Walter -- is that even as we go to add -- return more to we have the ability to accumulate a lot.
So if something does come up we have the ability also to engage there.
Research Division</strong> Got it helpful.
And I just want to go back for a second to AWM on margins.
I remember a couple of years ago you guys were hoping to get to 12%.
And now you're clearly at 13% with still a decent amount of headwinds in the business.
Can you give us a sense where the employee margins are versus the franchisee margins? And can't we think about the target margin in that whole segment closer to mid-teens versus I guess what you guys used to target? Yes.
I would say -- listen we've been able to overcome significant headwinds.
As Walter outlined just year-over-year where we're already at low rates as various Bernanke made the latest adjustment back in August.
That's another $10 million in the quarter lower than it was just last year and we know how low that was.
And we've been able to offset that from improvements through productivity and expense management.
And then we took the bank out which also really compressed margins by well just add 130 basis points on top of that.
So if you put those 2 back in you're close to 15% today based on what we said to you previously that we wanted to get to 12%.
And the 12% included interest rates coming back at the time.
So we've more than offset the interest rate headwinds and it's actually gone far beyond that.
In regard to your next question regarding the 2 channels the employee channel is not at the margins we want them to be at as we continue to build the capacity and get the productivity where we want that to be as we have invested in that area.
So we're probably around the breakeven point right now.
And so as we continue to add productivity there advisors et cetera we can definitely get that into the type of margins that we're talking across the business which gets you again that boost that you've mentioned.
And our next question comes from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple questions on the flows.
First Jim you had mentioned the RIA share class change and that it had an impact on the flows that you would expect that impact to continue going forward.
Can you just give us a sense of order of magnitude how much of an impact on the flows that had in the quarter? In the first quarter that was roughly about $600 million.
And that was what normally would have been an inflow that we would have experienced to turn that into about a $600 million outflow so that the change was probably a bit more significant than $600 million.
Now again that was a repricing which closed out an old share class.
So there are some effects to that that people make a decision on.
We think we still have a good business there.
We think that a good number of people are staying in as the share class shifts.
Having said that it was an effect in the retail flows in the first quarter probably closer to the 6-plus hundred million that would've been slightly positive let's say or a little positive to a negative.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And about -- is that about the rate that we should expect kind of going forward? I think in the second quarter it might be a bit higher only because it was fully enacted by the end of March February and March.
So again we don't know exactly.
But I would just say second quarter would be a sort of a -- the bigger quarter possibly for it.
And again I think even after that's over economically we'll be better off.
Research Division</strong> Right understood.
Turning to Institutional at Columbia.
In the past you guys have talked about a building pipeline.
It was probably the biggest pipeline it's been I think is the way you characterized it at some point in recent quarters.
And my understanding is that pipeline in terms of mandates filling or funding has been delayed a little bit.
So I was wondering if a you could talk about that? And then b can you give us a sense of order of magnitude of what that pipeline is? In other words if everything just magically funded today is it $1 billion? Is it $5 billion? I mean just some sense of what we could expect if those mandates eventually fund? Okay.
So if we just look back over the number of periods remember we had to rebuild this.
We were on hold with consultants et cetera.
We got off hold beginning part of the last year.
And so since those points our pipeline is the highest it's ever been and it continues to grow.
We have -- I don't want to give actual numbers here but it's significantly up from where it was 2 years ago and even nice strongly up from where it was a year ago.
And we're in a lot of pending finals.
And we usually have very good win rates ultimately.
So once we can get in the door.
Now having said that it's taken a little time to get a broader what I would call a broader set of funds to be considered.
And I think we're finally getting there.
We -- as an example I'll give you this out.
We have wins to be funded of $1.4 billion.
Now again you can't exactly time that.
We thought some of that would come in in the first quarter it didn't.
But we know based on a year ago that a lot of what does win does get funded but it does sometimes take a bit more than a quarter to do that.
So I would just say that the pipeline is building.
I'll ask the team what we feel comfortable with as we go forward.
But there are billions in the pipeline and billions in the finals.
And so what we already won is another billion-plus.
So I think unfortunately what we got hit in the first quarter is winnings didn't fund as quickly and people rotated out of some very good mandates because of what they thought were going to happen in the fixed income market.
And it was unfortunate that the -- it compounded what that looked like.
Having said that our team feels good about what they got in the pipeline.
It doesn't mean we won't lose some low-basis-point stuff from the bank-affiliated type things that are very low margin that goes into those numbers.
But we'll try to clearly identify that for you moving forward.
Listen we're not declaring success here.
We're declaring that we're hard at work.
We've got to build and we've got to keep on getting out to the market and expanding.
But we do believe we're gaining traction.
It's just for you and I can fully understand it's hard to see when you see these substantial outflows from -- of these categories.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Just a final -- my last question is on Columbia.
So I think we're about 3 years after the close.
And I think pretty much every year we've been in outflows.
And I understand that there's been some cyclical headwinds and the former parent stuff and I get all that stuff.
But I guess my question is as we think back to over the past couple of years what if anything have you learned from the experience with Columbia that you would take to say another acquisition that you might decide to pursue down the road? Were there any lessons learned that you could share with us? There's always a lot of lessons to be learned.
So I would say things always take a bit longer than you always think.
For instance you think some of the stuff -- let's say we're talking about flows.
Some of that stuff would either wash out quickly or adjustments would be made or you can be clear on what that is and it's not always easy to do that.
I would say even when you integrate and merge you may have a very clear plan and roadmap.
Having said that the execution of it takes a lot of parties whether they be internal external providers boards et cetera that always take a bit longer.
You also even in a deal you've learned some things as you dig under the covers more and whether you peel the onion in regard to what's really from a parent perspective or an economic or a distribution.
Having said all of that and if I had to retrace steps I think we did an excellent deal.
I think we're providing a tremendous transformation for what we had.
I think we bought a good business.
I think we worked with a good partner in Bank of America and to orchestrate this and do this.
And I think if you go back to where we were and where we are today and you look at our total Asset Management business combined where we're generating over $0.5 billion of PTI even with these outflows could they -- would you have liked that to be done so the optics are different absolutely.
But for just like I did Threadneedle I've got optics of outflows but I've created a wonderful business in Threadneedle with a diversified strong asset management company #4 in the U.K.
market and expanding.
So I would just say the flows are an optic thing right now but look at the profitability look at the makeup look at the positioning we have as one of the larger providers that we can build upon.
And we've learned a lot.
So if I had to do another deal I'll know a lot more about what I would do and say and how do I orchestrate it.
But I also would say if you look beyond the quarter or you look at beyond the one indicator and look at the total and you can go back quarter to quarter and go back to the past we've created a very large successful -- we think will be very successful over time but it's going to take more work -- asset manager that's generating very strong profitability I would compare it against anything in the industry has a good product lineup has good investment performance and expanding distribution.
So I know it's hard Suneet as you look at the period and say "Well why aren't the flows turning around?" But even if I suffer continued outflows from ex-parent perspective but I'm building a stronger business with stronger profitability I think that's fine.
If I did another deal let's say and you buy it from somebody else you're going to experience outflows in a consistent particularly if it was a parent-owned entity.
But if you can derive good value from it then I think we have to explain that a bit better than we've been able to.
And our next question comes from John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have one on Asset Management.
Jim or Walter if I look at the management fees as a percentage of average AUM in other words the fee rate it jumped up this quarter very nicely.
And I assume that's reflective of some of the things you've been talking about a higher proportion of assets coming from retail some of the lower-fee business outflowing.
I guess my question is can we expect that that fee rate can continue to move higher from here? And if so is there any help you can provide us in terms of thinking about at what pace? I think the observations you have are correct.
And I think again there's a market factor in there and other elements.
So I think we can't be that predictive.
But it's certainly -- and the 2 fee days left -- less.
But [indiscernible] I think we should see that again you can't control the market but certainly the trend line is reasonable.
And I'd also say that we have more work to do regarding various pricing and things that we have with fee waivers and caps and various things to get that orchestrated even more appropriately over time.
We did a lot of mergers.
We did a lot of movement of funds.
And I think that that has caused some issues for us that we're -- we've started to make some changes with a year ago that's being factored in there that we need to continue to focus time and attention on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So even the revenue enhancement side of that is not yet fully baked in yet? No.
I think we've got to do more work including with our fund boards to really go over that to understand what has changed in the dynamics and why.
We do have a good philosophy of giving and having good reasonable fees.
Having said that I think when we did a lot of these merges and caps between 2 fund families that actually put a bit more of a pressure and burden that I don't think is necessarily appropriate at this point.
Research Division</strong> All right that's helpful.
And then Jim sort of right upfront in your prepared remarks you mentioned that you're not seeing at least currently acquisition opportunities that meet your internal criteria.
I was just hoping you could put maybe a finer point on that and help us understand maybe more specifically what those hurdles are? Well I think what I would say and Walter can complement this we have a few hurdles.
So one would be we start off with the idea that does this add value overall to our franchise longer term? Because any deal that you do you have just like Suneet asked what are the learnings you have a lot to do with integration you have a lot to do with change in flows and people and talent et cetera.
And so you always have to look at that to say "Does 2 and 2 equal something more than 4?" Hopefully it doesn't give you 3.
So the first thing is does it add or complement the product line? Does it give you enough additional capacity? Can you consolidate in the right way to free up resources? And so we go through that that gives us a financial analysis as well.
And economically does it give us as good a return as if we return to shareholders in a  different way.
And so there are always opportunities.
The question is can you get them to work for you and do they detract you from the things that you think will build even a stronger business and prevent -- present an opportunity cost or not? And so it's not that we don't look at things.
We look at things and each of those properties have some benefits and some of them that could be detractors or have some issues with them.
And I think as you also asked we have continued to get smarter based on the learnings of doing Threadneedle Seligman and Columbia now so I think we're not naive anymore as we go in.
But I think we've done a good job in each of these.
And I think we factor in those learnings and our experience as we look at any other opportunity that approaches.
So is the world continuing to consolidate at one level? The answer is yes.
You'll continue to see transactions out in the marketplace.
Will we be able to play in them? I think we do based on our experience and our capacity and free cash that we can utilize.
But will we just do it because there's a deal out there? The answer is no.
And so those are the things we take into account.
Beyond that I mean we have a very detailed thing that we go through to analyze whether something adds value or not so I don't want to disclose that strategically here on a phone call.
Our next question comes from Eric Berg from RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim my question.
I just have one that really bridges the Asset Management and the Wealth Management area the Advice &amp; Wealth management area and it is this.
It's striking to me that you've achieved continuing significant success with your RAP program and yet the success I think this would be probably to put it -- would be to put it generously has been on-again off-again in retail mutual funds.
Contrast the 2 businesses.
Why do you think you have been able to be as successful continuously bringing in net flows in the RAP area but not in retail funds? So I think Eric I think we are successful because in our RAP area are the funds underneath it that I think as an example we continue to do well as Columbia including in our channel.
Having said that we have an open architecture channel and therefore we're never going to win the -- all the old business.
Now if you think about what we're experiencing for Bank of America and Zurich again these were proprietary businesses at one point that they captured a substantial amount of sales within each of those channels just like we did at Ameriprise many years ago.
And it took us years to sort of go through that leveling out as an impact.
So part of that is what you may see in the overall fund types.
The second part is to be very clear now we are going to grow how through third-party.
And so even though we are maintaining good sale share let's say at Ameriprise and even let's say at some of the Bank of America activities as they further diversify we now have to gain further traction.
And when we were RiverSource remember we started a third-party business.
We were just starting to develop it.
At Columbia they developed the third-party business and part of what they did at Columbia in establishing that is some of their hotter products that they sold were unfortunately in just a few areas.
And so as those areas have changed now some subadvisor and some types of funds where people have moved on and retired they've been impacted a bit more by outflows.
But if we look at our gross sales our gross sales are still good and strong and we do a significant amount of tonnage.
However we've been even having a part of a redemption and what we have to do is grow beyond those proprietary channels even more strongly now into third-party.
And so that's really the changeover.
And so I would say that we need to work at this a bit longer.
We need to -- we took a major organization and merged it together over the last 3 years.
And it's only at the end of let you think mid-year 212 (sic) that we're over the merger activities.
And unfortunately I think we would've all liked to come out of this a bit stronger it's requiring a bit more time and effort.
But I think we got a lot of the good pieces in place to do that.
And we do see signs of success.
But having said that we got a very big fund family today and a very big asset base.
We have $450 billion of assets under management.
So we've got to get more cylinders firing to offset some of the ex-parents stuff to get into a growth mode when we look at overall flows.
I think we may find it a bit easier to do that on a fee basis rather than in an absolute flow basis.
And that's exactly what we experienced when we did Threadneedle with Zurich.
Our flows weren't oversized in a positive but our fees were over time.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could ask just one more question.
And you've touched on this but I'm hoping you can build on your answer.
It's clear that you think at least to me it seems apparent that you believe this acquisition has been a success despite the negative optics of negative flows which I think have been almost every quarter.
If we can get a sharper point on what measures not the measures that you see but the measures that we in the public can see what are the measures that we in the public can see that you would point to that you would think best speak to the success of this acquisition? I'll talk a few and I'll let Walter talk to the economics.
First of all I would say we have a fund family that we're #8 in the U.S.
We today have 50-plus 4- and 5-star funds in most categories.
We have a more diversified and larger distribution platform than we've ever had before.
We have good talented people that have good performance in a larger areas than we ever had in capability.
We are a fund complex to be reckoned with out there.
I think you can compare the economics over and the size of scope and the performance and the number of funds against any other fund family out there.
And you can see that we are one of the larger more significant players.
That's a few.
Walter why don't you give them the law [ph] on the economics? Sure.
Eric clearly it's been transformational from our PE from our IRR objectives as we talked about it it was 30%.
It's been north of that.
And currently from every aspect financially the program of both the capabilities that we now have and really the potential has really been a major major shareholder value to the firm.
So -- on any measure we have looked at this has been excellent.
So I think you're asking on excellent question Eric.
I think as I said I think I would look at the more absolute dimensions and where we're situated.
I mean the other thing I would just say is this.
We're only at the first or second inning of now taking Columbia because we had to focus on integrating Columbia and putting Threadneedle with Columbia.
And now we're really working on some global product emerging markets asset allocation.
We've just brought in some senior talent there.
And we see some good opportunity.
We're expanding in Asia.
We set up offices out there and we're winning mandates already.
So listen I think we got more work to do.
It's a competitive world.
There's a lot of good players in the industry.
But we are a player today.
Where in the past we weren't able to compete on a full-scale basis.
Now it doesn't mean it's going to be easy particularly to establish ourselves even more globally but I think we have a lot of the capabilities and foundation to do so.
But we're going to work hard.
We've got to get those flows turned.
We've got to win more business.
We've got to develop some of the more global capabilities that I think we already got some good things that are coming to -- will come to fruition towards the latter part of this year.
So listen we are not satisfied.
This is an area that we got to get a bit stronger in and better.
But on the other side we're generating good strong profitability.
I think if you put us against a lot of -- outside of the very largest players out there I think you'll find that we're right in the mix there.
And you can look at all the dimensions I've mentioned to you.
And I think we compare quite favorably.
More to do.
There are some areas we can get better.
But I think we're in good shape.
And our next question comes from Jeff Schuman from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping we could talk a little bit about the fixed annuity block.
Can you give us some sense of what the crediting rate or spread opportunity is when that book matures? You're talking about -- it's Walter.
You're talking about the 5-year book? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
What is going to happen here if you take a look at this it has 2 major components.
Primarily there's an outside distribution channel which has a guaranteed minimum interest rate that's going to be in the 3.5% range which obviously on that basis we will on then adjust to it but that will give you a compression.
The balance of it however both on the ID channel and some of the OD channel is in the 1.5% range.
And obviously that would then bring down and prove as we go into 2014 and start repricing this spread compression that we've had as we rebalance that.
Obviously we have to look at being -- certainly what's available out there from that standpoint and our alternatives to our clients.
And -- but it clearly will be -- as we indicated this year we are -- the bulk of the $115 billion -- $115 million that we're taking an interest rate that would start in -- basically be mitigated in the area of the annuity as we go into '14 and certainly in '15.
Again it depends on the environment because I can't say what we're going to price that yet depends on what the rate is going to be out there.
But that -- it certainly gives us that leg in to really readjust that and then be balanced with our shareholders and clients.
Okay? Is that okay? Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] So the outside distributed stuff the 3.5% that is still some kind of a floor that would remain in effect.
Is that what you're saying? Yes absolutely.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So not so much opportunity there...
For that one.
And that's about -- if you talk about the $4 billion that's about 30% of it there.
$1.3 billion $1.4 billion of it.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are there other similar blocks of this type of annuity that will come out of the guarantee period in subsequent years? Or is this pretty much the one kind of big block of this nature? Yes this is a big block.
The other is the 1 year that's been -- a lot of it's been out of surrender.
And obviously they have high guaranteed minimum interest rates.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then one other thing we talked a lot about the share class and the flows on the RIA business but what is kind of the base of AUM for RIA business? Right now I don't have that.
For RIA business base it's -- I don't want to guess.
So why don't we get back to you on the RIA base because I don't want to give something that's -- it's not at the tip of my hands right now.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question.
Just -- we've talked in great detail about the different flow dynamics but I want to make sure I understood what I thought I heard Jim say in his opening comments.
I thought I heard Jim say that all in the expectation was that flows might improve over the course of the year.
Is that -- did I understand sort of the bottom line correctly that when we factor in all these kind of bottom-up inputs that you still would hope to improve from this level? Yes.
I think again we can't dictate when some of the lumpiness some of the mandates change.
But what I am saying to you and again let me try to be clear as clear as I can be right now.
We will even after this year okay? So let's say we will experience Balboa and some other things happening this year.
Even after this year for some of these lumpy institutional low-fee type of things we will still always -- and so in Threadneedle the way I would look at it if I was you is this are we gaining good flows in Threadneedle from retail and institutional through third-party x Zurich? Because Zurich will be in an outflow on an ongoing basis from $3 billion to $4 billion a year.
And if the answer is yes even if flows are at breakeven or negative but they will offset the negative in flows because of higher-fee business that's going to be a positive.
And so I'm not saying we won't be in inflows in Thread.
You can see in periods like including last year we were in strong inflows in certain periods but it's always every quarter there's a $1 billion $1.5 billion of outflows from Zurich.
And you say "Well it's not that strong." It's at -- that's a very strong good business of the net of those 2 even if they come to breakeven or positive after offsetting those outflows or even negative to some extent.
We're going to still have some of that for Columbia as well.
We believe we can get into positive net inflows in Columbia.
Again similar to what we're doing with Threadneedle.
But we're always going to experience some level of outflow from the bank bank-affiliated distribution that are good agreements good relationships good base of assets.
But I will tell you that when you look at the gross gross you're going to say "Well why isn't it possibly stronger?" I would say on the gross side it will be strong and growing.
On the net side we will have some of those consistent outflows.
But that doesn't mean it's a bad thing for us.
It means that it was part of the arrangement we made when we purchased this moving from a proprietary type of relationship to a third-party relationship.
But our flows this year we are targeting them to improve from what we've seen in the first quarter.
And we're targeting that we will gain more third-party activities both in the Institutional and improving in the retail.
And so that's what we would say.
But we don't have a perfect crystal ball.
That's what we and the team are working on.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I think we all do understand some of these basic dynamics you're talking about.
But I would just simply echo Nigel's point which is to the extent that you'd give us better transparency as you did a little bit this quarter with the Zurich outflows -- I mean if you give us more transparency it's much easier for us to wrap our hands around it and understand it.
I agree with you.
I actually agree full.
So we'll see what we can do appropriate and that's why we tried to have this conversation.
Your questions are right on target.
And I can understand sitting where you are and sometimes even sitting where I am.
It's always easier as you break them down into different buckets.
We'll see if we can even get better as we go forward.
And our next question comes from Thomas Gallagher from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just to completely beat a dead horse here just one other question on the flows.
The news or the guidance you're giving us on Threadneedle and Zurich assets pretty consistent with what you've said in the past so that doesn't sound new.
The guidance on Columbia is new though just in terms of the expectation that you're going to continue to see outflows.
And I heard everything you've gone through but I just want to know from your standpoint because I think leading up to this quarter the expectation that you had had was that we would have more of a near-term end to the legacy flows.
So I just want to get a sense for what is it that you've seen behind the scenes? Is it simply just the continued leakage? Is it some new development on the U.S.
trust side? I just want to get a little more color for what the change in tone from you is your management team? Just in terms of what you are seeing now is there -- has there been a change? Or is it just more -- you've just gotten to the point where you're not willing to draw the line in the sand that this is going to abate? So anyway that's my one question on the flows.
Yes.
I think -- again a good question Nigel.
I think what it is is I think what we concentrated initially on was some of the larger buckets that we knew would adjust in the periods right after the acquisition.
We knew things like Balboa.
We knew that there were low fees prepaid type accounts and institutional accounts.
And a lot of that has occurred as we thought maybe a little longer it took than we thought.
When someone says we sold the insurance block we figured that would go sooner than later and it's been a drip drip drip.
There are some of those institutional relationships that are still there.
Again we're not going to try to move on them.
I mean they're there and they're good to the extent that they're there.
But we know at one point they will move out.
We probably just assumed that some of that would move quicker than it had.
A thing that I think is different is as we sort through all the lumpiness of it what we also recognize now is there is a -- also a continued large installed base of assets that we have a good relationship with Bank of America or their affiliates.
We want to maintain that relationship even beyond whatever the initial contractual period on an ongoing.
We think it's good for them.
They think it's good for them.
We think it's good for us.
And so we're working hard to keep that relationship.
Having said that there was a level of concentration in there.
There was a level of asset base as they looked to make some changes or they're dealing with how they want to look at their business that we know that we will be affected.
Similar to in a certain sense not that these are closed-book assets or anything but similar to the sense of what we dealt with Zurich or even in Ameriprise's proprietary system at one point.
And so now that we have greater optics to that we understand a little more of what are the dynamics there we're probably saying this is what we're beginning to see more as we go further after the first level of the consolidation is over and the lumpiness is out.
And so I don't know if we would have known all this initially.
We didn't.
Having said that we don't think that it will in some way cause us not to be in a good strong business that we can grow but it will be an ongoing effect.
And we're trying to make it clear to you so that we -- as your colleagues -- as your peers just asked we're trying to give you some color for what we're trying to do.
And in that regard we believe that we can do that well.
Having said that we do know the optics of flows is where everyone concentrates on.
We're probably saying you've got to look beyond what the -- just the one flow number is to look at the dynamics of the flow number.
And then what are we doing as a total picture to make the changes necessary so that we can be a good competitor.
And that's probably what we're trying to bring to light.
I don't think we knew all of this previously.
So as we knew it and understand it and we continue to lay out our strategy moving forward I am trying to be clearer to you.
When we first did Zurich we never came out initially again not knowing to say Zurich will be an outflow of $3 billion to $4 billion.
It was more of can you maintain that relationship and that agreement and all that stuff.
And over time we learned a bit more as we peeled the onion and we reestablished that relationship in appropriate way.
And so we want that relationship.
It's a good relationship.
But what we learned and what we continue to tell you every -- now more formally every year is what that will look like so that you can do your math and you can understand the dynamics.
And that's all we're trying to do here.
I don't think we know everything going into any arrangement particularly of the size and scope that we were talking about here.
Research Division</strong> No.
That's helpful Jim.
So if I can paraphrase at least the way I'm understanding this is there's a larger pool of assets now under which you thought when you initially did the deal there was a distribution opportunity.
Now as you assess those pool of assets and the distribution opportunity the distribution opportunity probably isn't there for a larger pool of assets which means it's more -- there's a larger amount of assets in a closed block that we should be thinking about in more of a closed-block context.
Yes I wouldn't call it a closed.
But what I would say is it would get into a more normalized overall rate from a sale and a redemption perspective.
So over time I think that will start to mediate et cetera.
But what we're saying to you is good strong relationship in a certain area that we're going to maintain and do our best to continue to replenish and build.
But just based upon the level that was there already there's a natural outflow from that because we were pretty significant and let's say fixed in municipals.
So as there's a diversification including with more diversified equity and passives and stuff going on to various platforms we're not going to always garner what that total flow was when it was part of Bank of America entity or even if it was let's say Bank of America would be making changes today even if that was -- Columbia was still a part of them.
So that's all I'm saying is there's that natural evolution that's occurring there that we're going to be affected by because we were a very large provider in that channel.
And that's what we're saying.
Now having said that the world changes.
Just like with Ameriprise we changed and we had to grow other areas of distribution to offset that.
That's exactly what's occurring here for Columbia.
Is that helpful? And our last question comes from John Hall from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
I'll try to be real tight here.
Jim on the global initiatives I was just wondering if you could give us a quick progress report and maybe a time frame as to when we might see those take hold? Okay.
So what we're actually seeing right now and doing is we've actually had some pretty good product in emerging market equity and debt et cetera.
And what we are doing is we had some good people in Threadneedle as well as Columbia.
We're putting those resources together even more formally.
We've already established some reasonably good track records in these areas and we're going to be able to go to market even more substantially by having a stronger larger depth of team resources and more track records.
And I think we're going to be in market for our first few activities in the second half of this year that we're going to try to actually put in our toolbox to even be more focused on in selling in the institutional channels.
We also have made some good headway in sharing things and building the depth of our research for global fixed income as well as global equities putting together some of the sub-portfolios that Threadneedle has some excellent results in in let's say European and we have here in the U.S.
that we manage in certain areas.
And so those things are coming together.
We also now have put together a more formalized global team in asset allocation.
We brought in Jeff Knight and Jeff is leading our efforts there.
We have some good portfolios today in asset allocation.
He's building that into a more comprehensive global platform and taking resources that we have that are managing those type of things both in the U.S.
as well as at Threadneedle.
So again we're not standing still there but these things take a little time.
But we will start to put some of those things in the market more formally in the second half and build upon that over the next 18 to 24 months.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the second quarter 2013 earnings call.
My name is Larisa and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this conference is being recorded.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Alicia Charity.
Alicia you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial's Second Quarter Earnings Call.
On the call with me are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear reference to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the company's operations.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP numbers to their respective GAAP numbers can be found in today’s materials on our website.
Some statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management’s expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today’s date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today’s earnings release our 2012 annual report to shareholders and our 2012 10-K report.
We take no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim.
Good morning and thanks for joining us for our second quarter earnings call.
I'll provide my perspective on our results in the business.
Walter will review the numbers more fully and then we'll take your questions.
Yesterday afternoon we reported strong second quarter earnings.
We're making significant progress across the firm and we delivered record results in our Advice &amp; Wealth Management business.
In terms of the economic environment that we've been operating in U.S.
and European equity markets moved around quite a bit during the quarter.
They rose significantly in the early part of the quarter before hitting a rough patch in June and have since come back.
Investments are beginning to get back into the markets and the economy is on more stable ground.
The bond market backed up a bit increasing long-term interest rates.
However short-term interest rates remain at an all-time low.
Overall I'm pleased with how Ameriprise is performing.
We're moving forward with purpose and executing our consistent strategy.
Walter will discuss the numbers in detail but our financial results demonstrate a strong quarter.
On an operating basis net revenues grew to $2.7 billion from significant growth in our fee-based businesses and a pickup in client and advisor activity.
Our earnings were $352 million with diluted earnings per share of $1.69.
And return on equity excluding AOCI reached a new level increasing to 17.9% which is an all-time high for us.
In addition our assets under management and administration increased to $703 billion.
Maintaining an excellent financial foundation is core to how we operate the company.
We continue to demonstrate the strength of our capital position and ability to generate significant free cash flow to return to shareholders.
During the quarter we returned $488 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Over the last 4 quarters we returned 134% of our operating earnings to shareholders.
As we said we intend to return the majority of our earnings to our shareholders annually.
With that let's talk about our Advice &amp; Wealth Management performance.
As I mentioned at the start Advice &amp; Wealth Management had excellent financial results even after the banking last year and the pressure from low interest rates.
Operating net revenues increased 13% to $1.1 billion driven by significant retail client net inflows more client activity and market growth.
Excluding former bank operations in 2012 operating net revenues increased 17% and operating margin increased to 14.1% due to the growth in productivity and our expense management efforts.
We also had very good client flows and asset growth.
Ameriprise advisor client assets grew by 13% to $373 billion because of strong net inflows good results in client acquisition and equity market appreciation.
Client activity continued to increase and wrap net inflows were up 18% to more than $3 billion.
Advisor productivity is also up nicely with operating net revenue per advisor excluding former bank operations growing 17%.
Importantly our advisor retention remains high.
And in terms of experienced advisor recruiting we saw a meaningful improvement in bringing in another 88 experienced advisors in what was generally a slower recruiting quarter for the industry.
I'm pleased with both the number and the quality of advisors joining our firm.
We're building on our leadership presence in the retirement space and driving advisor efficiency through our tools and capabilities.
During the quarter we formally launched our exclusive Confident Retirement approach which helps clients to feel more confident about their retirement by addressing all of their needs comprehensively.
Our advisors say it makes difficult conversations easier and helps to deepen relationships.
We're putting a concerted effort towards implementing this program more broadly over the next 18 months.
This year is about continuing to educate and engage advisors through field training and focus groups so they can utilize the Confident Retirement approach in their practices.
We're also focusing on deriving benefits from the investments we've made including in technology.
We're channeling our efforts to help advisors fully uptake all of our brokerage platform offers as well as our online tools for client-advisor engagement over the next 18 months.
And we continue to enhance our tools and processes with new self-service features and enhancements that help advisors save time and make it easier to transact business.
During the quarter some of our online capabilities including our advisor websites and social media efforts were recognized with awards from the Financial Communication Society.
Overall it was an excellent quarter for Advice &amp; Wealth Management across the business.
With continued growth in client flows and increased productivity as well as our ongoing focus on expense management we're able to grow our margins and offset low interest rates.
Now let's move to Asset Management.
We're beginning to gain some momentum while managing the outflows we discussed with you last quarter.
Assets under management were $459 billion up 3% compared to last year as growth in equity markets more than offset net outflows and the negative impact of foreign exchange.
The growth in assets for market appreciation as well as ongoing revenue and expense re-engineering led to solid earnings in our Asset Management business even after adjusting for the Cofunds gained.
In fact adjusted net pretax operating margin which does not include the onetime gain was 36.2% for the quarter compared to 33.7% a year ago and 34.6% in the sequential quarter.
In terms of investment performance our 1- 3- and 5-year numbers are quite good and reflect our focus on generating consistently strong performance for our clients.
We had very good fixed income performance numbers and saw an improvement in domestic and international equity at Columbia.
In total we offer more than 120 4- and 5-star rated funds.
With regard to flows net outflows were $2.1 billion in the quarter.
In retail we showed nice improvements.
Threadneedle experienced significant net inflows in the U.K.
and Europe with a very robust showing in the first 2 months of the quarter.
Overall we had about $900 million of total net outflows as the positive gains at Threadneedle were offset by outflows at Columbia.
Columbia's outflow drivers were slightly improved from the first quarter and also reflected industry-wide pressure of retail fixed income outflows in June.
When adjusting for the market dynamics underlying Columbia retail net outflows were primarily from the areas we discussed last quarter a former parent affiliate distribution relationship a key sub-advisor and our actions to improve the economics of our share class in the IRA channel.
While the former parent affiliated distribution relationship represents an important client for us we will experience ongoing net outflows as our market share normalizes over time.
For Columbia increasing our presence on large distribution platforms and gaining wins on platforms remain the focus for retail.
We're also expanding our due diligence efforts.
Importantly sales within our focus funds are good especially those within our redefining income campaign.
However we need to increase our overall penetration.
With regard to institutional we had about $800 million in total net outflows but that was driven by $2 billion in outflows from the legacy insurance mandates parent affiliated distribution and former parent influenced assets.
When you adjust for these elements the underlying traditional institutional business had a solid quarter.
As I mentioned last quarter the pipeline of one but not yet funded mandates have been building.
We had several large U.S.
equity and fixed income mandates funded in the quarter.
I should also note that our global coordination across our Asset Management businesses is one of our key long-term growth initiatives.
During the quarter existing emerging market debt and equity teams at Columbia and Threadneedle began working together.
And over the next several months we'll expand collaboration between the 2 organizations to include global asset allocation global fixed income and global equity asset classes.
We know we have more work to do in Asset Management and we will drive hard to gain profitable net flows.
We feel we have a good foundation in place that we will continue to build upon.
Let's move to Annuities and insurance.
Businesses that are important to meeting clients' long-term financial needs in our Confident Retirement approach.
In Annuities we're generating good returns on our business that has an effective risk profile in hedging.
The business is well positioned in cash sales of variable annuities through Ameriprise were up 20%.
Sales of our managed volatility funds have continued to increase in recent months with improved equity markets and our wholesaling efforts driving our momentum.
In May we introduced 3 new volatility control products and 20 additional tax sufficient variable annuities without living benefits.
Overall we're pleased with the initial sales and flows that we're seeing in these products.
With regard to fixed annuities as we said in the past this is a good book of business for us but not one that we're looking to grow in a low-interest rate environment.
This is consistent with our strategy to manufacture products where we feel we can get attractive risk-adjusted returns.
In Protection the business is also performing well with good profitability.
We have a diversified portfolio that is mostly comprised of variable universal life cash value-focused universal life disability income and some term products.
We're seeing a nice pickup in sales and we're generating meaningful returns.
Sales in life insurance are up 32% from last year.
Index universal life sales continue to be strong and we'll also experience an improvement in universal life sales a business where we are a leader.
In Auto and Home we had a solid quarter with steady policy growth of 10% from a year ago.
We're working to deepen penetration with our affinity partners and with our own advisors and we're seeing nice progress.
Client satisfaction retention of Auto and Home remains very positive.
To summarize we had a very good quarter.
All of our businesses performed well especially Advice &amp; Wealth Management which is showing excellent results.
In Asset Management we're generating solid returns but we have more work to do to gain flows at Columbia.
Our insurance and Annuity businesses are performing well and complement our total offering.
Overall we're executing our strategy managing expenses and the headwinds from low interest rates.
As I mentioned our return on equity reached a new level in the higher end of our targeted range consistent with what I told you last quarter.
As I look forward we see opportunities to take it even higher and continue to grow returns over time especially with an improved rate environment.
With that I'd like to hand things over to Walter for a detailed review of the numbers.
Thank you Jim.
Ameriprise delivered excellent financial results this quarter particularly in our targeted growth areas.
Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management.
These 2 segments represent over 60% of our total revenues and grew 17% on a combined basis when you normalize for exiting the bank.
In Protection and Annuities revenue grew in line with our expectations particularly in light of continued low interest rates.
Let's turn to earnings on Slide 4.
Operating pretax earnings had similar trends to revenues.
Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management together represented over 60% of operating pretax earnings.
This quarter was particularly high with the Cofunds gain.
And adjusting for that it would've been 59% of operating and pretax earnings.
We expect this trend line to be in the high 50% range for the balance of the year.
Growth in these 2 areas was particularly strong.
In Advice &amp; Wealth Management earnings grew 63% even with low interest rates and after adjusting for the bank exit.
Asset Management earnings increased 53%.
Excluding the gains from the Cofund sale Asset Management earnings increased 30%.
Annuities earnings growth was a solid 7% considering the low interest rate environment.
The year-over-year comparison for Protection was impacted by onetime items in both quarters that I will discuss later.
Let's turn to EPS on Slide 5.
Earnings per share were $1.69 up a robust 50% and return on equity hit an all-time high of 17.9%.
These reflect strong earnings growth in our Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management businesses and our ability to utilize our balance sheet to return capital to shareholders given our financial strength.
Looking ahead we continue to see opportunity for further ROE expansion.
Moving to the segments.
Results in Advice &amp; Wealth Management were strong across the board.
Business growth metrics revenue growth and expense management all of which drove strong earning and significant margin expansion.
Pretax earnings grew 37% in face of both $18 million of lower bank earnings and a negative impact of $15 million from lower spreads on cash sweep accounts.
We expect there will continue to be earnings pressure from low short-term interest rates during the balance of the year.
Business growth coupled with strong expense management has fueled margin growth in the segment to a higher 14.1%.
This is up 250 basis points year-over-year and if we normalize for the bank margins would've expanded about 400 basis points.
Turning to Asset Management we had earnings of $199 million up from $130 million in the prior year.
Earnings in the quarter included a $30 million gain from the sale of Threadneedle strategic business investment and Cofunds previously mentioned.
Excluding this earnings were up 30%.
During the quarter we had a CDO liquidation.
A portion of CDO earnings are recognized when funds are liquidated and performance fees are earned.
The liquidation this quarter generated $19 million of profitability which more than offset higher performance-related compensation expense.
Adjusted operating margins improved to 36.2% from 33.7% a year ago.
Let's turn to flows in more detail on the next slide.
In the quarter we had a total of $2.1 billion of net outflows.
Global retail outflows were $900 million.
International retail inflows were $700 million with strong inflows for April and May which slowed in June when markets became more volatile.
U.S.
retail outflows were $1.6 billion.
For institutional outflows were $800 million an improvement from the last quarter.
We had outflows of $2.5 billion which included $700 million of normal outflows from legacy insurance mandates at Threadneedle and approximately $1.3 billion of outflows in former parent influenced mandates and former parent affiliated distribution at Columbia.
Some of which was low basis points.
However in the quarter we had $1.7 billion of new mandates funded across Columbia and Threadneedle and the pipeline remained strong.
Turning to Annuities operating pretax earnings were up 7% to $124 million in line with our expectations.
Consistent for our strategy to manage the risk profile of our variable Annuity business we are seeing good growth in attractive new business after launching several new managed volatility funds offerings.
We also continued to experience outflows from close block policies sold through outside distribution.
Sales of variable annuities with managed volatility funds and products with no living benefit riders drove a 20% increase in sales during the quarter.
Variable annuities operating pretax earnings were $82 million flat compared to last year.
While equity markets were higher that benefit was offset by the distribution expense associated with VA sales growth and higher assets.
The level of mean reversion was similar to the prior year.
However this year's mean reversion was due to interest rates and bond fund returns compared with last year when the change was due to the equity markets.
In fixed annuities operating pretax earnings increased $9 million to $42 million.
Results in the current quarter included about $18 million of lower earnings from spread compression.
However the higher investment income from former bank assets transferred into this portfolio late last year offset the interest impact by $7 million.
In addition the prior year period included $17 million of onetime unfavorable adjustments.
Moving to Protection operating pretax earnings were $98 million down from $109 million in the prior year.
The underlying Life &amp; Health business remains quite strong.
We had good sales of both variable universal life and index universal life.
In the quarter we increased reserves for disability income insurance by $8 million.
However the loss ratio on claims levels remain well within our expectations.
Auto and Home has continued strong new policy sales growth across market segments primarily from our affinity relationships.
In the quarter we incurred $18 million of catastrophic losses which was $4 million higher than we anticipated and we incrementally added to reserves as we did in the first quarter.
Let's turn to capital on the next slide.
In the quarter we returned $488 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
As you can see we have been able to consistently return more than 100% of earnings to shareholders due to our business mix shift risk management capabilities and strong balance sheet fundamentals.
Based on current market conditions for the rest of 2013 we anticipate that our capital actions will drive continued ROE expansion and will fully neutralize the EPS impact of exiting the bank by year end.
Overall we are executing our strategy and it shows in our results.
Our ROE reached 17.9% and we continue to return capital to shareholders.
With that we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with the Advice &amp; Wealth Management business.
I guess on the past couple of calls you've talked about the employee-advisor channel as breakeven.
Just wondering if we're still breakeven with strong second quarter results.
And then kind of how long do you think it'll take you to actually start to generate a profit in that business? And if you can hit on some of the drivers there that would be helpful.
Okay this is Jim.
The employee part of the AWM business is actually profitable.
It turned profitable this year and it's starting to improve nicely.
Having said that it's not to the margins that we would like.
That's consistent across the entire franchise now.
But as we continue to gain productivity there and manager expenses we think that will continue accrete to earnings and improve the margins.
Research Division</strong> I guess if we think about the advisors in the 2 channels how would the productivity of the employee advisors compare to the franchisee advisors? Well today as you would realize because the employee channel was one that we more started from a maintaining an employee base over the last number of years rather than migrating people who are maturing over to the franchisee we still have a number of our legacy people continuing to mature in that as we recruit experienced people into the channel.
So we're seeing a nice increase in productivity as they continue to mature as we continue to ramp up for the years coming in as they continue to get their productivity back up to what they were before they were recruited as they transfer their books.
So I would say over the next few years we should be pretty equal in productivity between the channels.
Having said that I think we're looking to grow both channels and the productivity in both channels continues to go up.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I mean could we use a rule of thumb? Is it like half the productivity in the employee channel on average versus franchisee? Is there sort of way of dimensioning that? What we'll do is -- I would say it's -- I think it's more than half at this point in time I don't have the numbers right in front of me.
But I would continue to say that it will narrow over the next number of quarters.
And so I think it's materially changed from where it used to be over the last 2 years.
But I don't have the latest numbers in front of me.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on the Advice &amp; Wealth business.
If we think about that 14.1% pretax margin maybe compare it to the 12.9% that you did in the first quarter.
I think the second quarter tends to be your seasonally high sort of transaction quarter.
I guess I'm trying to figure out how much of the delta between the 2 periods is related to that seasonality versus the productivity or margin expansion that we could expect to continue even as we move to the third quarter? Sure it's Walter.
As you look at -- again there's no crystal ball in this but certainly in the third quarter we do see a basic cyclicality that will be lower.
But we anticipate that the margins if you're getting to where we're going to be should be in the high 13s.
And so we think certainly the trajectory of this was going to continue and the fundamentals are going to drive it.
But it will be in the high 13s.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just the last question I have is on the Asset Management business.
I guess we've talked for a while now about expanding into third-party distribution channels.
And I'm just wondering as you think about that strategy what are the levers or the catalysts that you have to increase your penetration there? In other words is it just about performance of the funds or are there some other competitive advantages that you bring to the table that could increase penetration in that channel? Yes.
I think as we talk about growing our third-party distribution -- and again I'll separate the retail from the institutional.
In the retail side of the business it's really getting in front of the various distribution partners with our product.
As you would imagine they have a number of products already on their platforms.
They've utilized a number of carriers.
And so what we're doing is showing them what our Columbia lineup is.
We had reestablished our wholesaling and the distributions as we have merged the wholesaling.
And now we need to continue to make progress working with them to get into the model portfolios through the gatekeepers and on the various platforms for the different types of products that we have.
So it's not as though we don't have the products nor the performance we do.
It just takes time to build those relationships back and see our products versus the other ones that they're offering and getting our wholesaling and capabilities attached to that.
So we are making good progress.
As you know it's a very competitive area but one that is large.
And we're making good headway.
I think on the other side of it we do experience some of the outflows from some of the past things that might have been on there as a sub-advisor or for a portfolio to where the managers have retired or changed and that had affected on the net basis some of those activities.
So we see the ability to grow the distribution through our third parties as we continue to get more firmly on the ground and ramp up our efforts.
Institutional it was the same thing.
I mean we got put on hold as you know.
But now that pipeline is building we're getting in front of many of the consultants and their clients and we are winning engagements there.
And so we feel pretty good about our ability to do that.
Now in the institutional space we have broadened our lineup and we will continue to broaden our lineup as we're actually developing some of our other products in certain categories.
So in that case it's more expending some of our product lines as we hit full fruition with the number of years et cetera with some of the merged platforms.
So I feel like we will make good progress however it doesn't come as quickly as we'd all like.
The next question is from Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> First I guess I realized there maybe some sensitivity becomes U.S.
Trust is a client.
At the firm but can you provide any detail on just the amount of U.S.
Trust assets that are managed by Columbia? And then it would be helpful if you could kind of gauge how far along is U.S.
Trust in the process of shifting to an open architecture platform.
And any estimate you have in terms of the size of additional potential outflows related to this transition and how long it may continue.
Look we don't comment on any client or the assets we have for any particular client.
What I would say is this U.S.
Trust has their open architecture.
They do have lineups of different products.
And as they continue to shift based on market cycle.
So what we've been somewhat affected by as well is their shift from more of the fixed income where we had some good capability and good product that we had more of their clients in some of our fixed income and our tax exempt et cetera to more of an equity bias.
And as you would imagine as you do do a shift particularly as we've merged our own platforms and we have to get into their cycle as anybody else does as they evaluate different products or different sectors that they want to invest in.
So as we do that we might lose a bit more share for the areas that we had some large buckets in.
And even though we may gain some share from some of the newer areas it may not be as high as it once was.
And so listen we think that will continue simply because we did have a good installed base when this was all part of Bank of America or when U.S.
Trust actually had some of these products.
So as an example they had a reasonable amount of money with like some of the sub-advisors they had it with the VNR [ph] et cetera that was originally one of their PMs.
So I think as things continue to evolve we will experience a level of outflows there.
Not that we don't win a reasonable amount of business or have a good relationship and manage a good bucket of assets it's just things do change.
It's similar to what we did in our system years ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then can you comment just on the level of margin on U.S.
Trust assets relative to the margin on new sales that you're getting? Comparing the outflows vis–à–vis the inflows.
What I would say there is that we have a good relationship with U.S.
Trust of course.
Each distribution and each activity is a little different so I would say on average new retail flows would be at a higher fee basis than what we -- but again it's in different buckets including with U.S.
Trust some as institutional some as retail some is within SMAs some is within mutual funds.
So each one of those are a bit different but I would say on average the new retail would be at a higher fee basis.
The next question comes from Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to follow up on the capital return story.
You guys continue to stand out again as one of the best probably capital return stories in the financial space.
But I guess some of that was attributable to sort of a catch-up from the bank going away.
But I'm wondering once we kind of get through that why shouldn't we expect well over 100% payout going forward.
It feels like it should be sustainable given the mix shift but I just want to make sure I understand the dynamic.
No it very much is as we look at the foreseeable future based on our excess capital as well as our earnings and the free cash flow that we could return more than 100% and we may very well do so.
Having said that we don't want to sit here today and just say we will continue to return more than 100% going out.
I think we've set a nice base level for you to say we'll return the majority.
But I think as what we've shown you even before the bank we were returning over 100%.
And as Walter said previously we're not looking to store a lot of excess capital unless we have good use for it in some opportunities which as we've been doing we will return the capital to shareholders.
We think that's appropriate.
So as you saw we didn't slow that in the third quarter I mean the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] Another quick follow-up I guess on the Asset Management business.
The institutional business I guess was a little bit better in Columbia this quarter and I know things can be fairly lumpy but maybe you can give us maybe a little more granularity on where the kind of pipeline stand today versus where they were a quarter ago.
And then maybe the mix of those pipelines.
So what kind of I guess strategies you guys had seen most traction on the institutional front? Okay.
So our pipeline for institutional actually continues to look quite strong.
We also have won a number of mandates that still are unfunded just like we had in the first quarter that funded in the second quarter.
We won some nice mandates in the second quarter.
They're unfunded and hopefully they'll fund in the third quarter.
We continue to have a good pipeline as we look out today and that pipeline has grown.
Having said that as we look to the third quarter we may get some lumpiness for some other ex-parent activity legacy things around pensions et cetera in the Columbia business.
We'll get the usual from the Zurich.
So I think we'll find that as second quarter as we showed you we had a nice pick-up in the third-party.
However when you look at the absolute flow that was offset a bit by some of the legacy parent stuff which would be at lower basis point.
So we might experience some of that.
We can't always optically know exactly when the timing is but we know there's some of that that will come out.
We think it will come out in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just the last one for me.
I want to get an update on the interest rate sensitivity given the move in the market we've seen recently.
I guess both to the expectation on the short end of the curve moving perhaps sooner as well as on the long end of the curve.
Well on the short answer as we talked about -- again we're not projecting but I'll just reiterate as it relates to the sweep accounts a good rule of thumb on that if it goes up 100 basis points we should retain about 85% of that.
And that could contribute close to 300 basis points on margins if it happens for the full year.
So that is again that is certainly we're sitting on a very large amount of cash in sweep accounts so that's very beneficial.
On the long end of the curve what really is going to happen here again a gradual increase here will certainly be beneficial from both the standpoint of our assets earning rates as we certainly had a duration where about 20% is coming through each year that we are reinvesting.
So that would be beneficial on that standpoint.
We then will have to evaluate now as we do the repricing on the 5-year fixed annuities that we talked about previously where we're going to set those rates and obviously that will be a factor into it.
So it will be beneficial as again as long as it's a slow gradual increase it will be beneficial to us on that basis.
And then of course it's beneficial from the standpoint on our hedging programs and the costs embedded within that.
Your next question comes from Jay Gelb form Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch base on the overall return on equity profile.
It looks like the company is clearly going to be in the high-teens range on return on equity for this year and that's up from around 16% in 2012.
And I'm just wondering if there's anything that you could see that would prevent Ameriprise from continuing to put up a couple hundred basis points of return on equity improvement over the next few years.
This is Walter.
Obviously no.
In the main in most situations we should be able to generate.
You can always have a 2008 event so I don't want to preclude.
But no barring that sort of dramatic situation the business model is generating the sort of free cash flow that allows us to do that and we're working on reducing our requirements and certainly as we shift the business that is certainly extremely beneficial as allowing us to take the increase return on equity.
Research Division</strong> So between the combination of the good strong earnings power the buybacks that could absorb 100% or more of net income and then lower capital requirements on the business that those would be the drivers? Yes.
The next question comes from Tom Gallagher from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A few questions for me.
The first one just to come back to the situation at Columbia and comparing it to Threadneedle what's going on there? So I understand the Zurich outflows that are expected are very low basis point mandates.
So there's clearly not much loss of revenues if you look at -- follow the trail of assets meaning there's still a positive revenue trend even though there's potentially net outflows here.
But on the U.S.
side with Columbia can you help us think about the order of magnitude on -- because you've already laid out that they are the affiliated former parent assets that you expect to flow out but are these anywhere close to the Zurich fees? Are those much higher? Because I heard your comment Jim that you -- that the new mandates are higher but I just want to get a sense for how much higher.
Are we talking about the assets that are flowing out are 40 basis points and the new mandates are 50 basis points? Can you help flush that out a little bit? Okay I think -- let me separate just the 2 because some of the outflows are also related as we just said over the last few periods that weren't necessarily just ex-parents so they're ex-parent in a sense but for instance we have a sub-advisory relationship.
Outside of that we've made some changes in our RIA pricing that we think economically will be beneficial even with the outflows.
And those are beyond sort of the ex-parent sort of stuff.
But the sub-advisor was a separate sort of arrangement that we did assume when we did the deal.
With the ex-parent stuff the institutional would be at lower basis points.
So that would be actually in some cases lower than the Zurich.
In some of the cases like on the retail side that would be in funds would be higher than would be the Zurich because that's a balance of institutional and retail.
And when we separate the 2 that will be higher.
But what I'm saying on a like-to-like basis for retail or institutional the inflows that we're receiving through third parties and growing new distribution is at a higher rate overall and a reasonable higher rate.
So from that basis now when you look at it to Threadneedle it took us a little while for Threadneedle to really ramp up that third-party because -- but when we first acquired them a lot of the mix was the Zurich that we had to diversify.
But the amount of the bucket is large even though the fees were low.
With Columbia we have a combination of what we acquired from Columbia that was their proprietary and what they did with their channels.
There was a part that was third-party and then we combined that with what we have which was significantly in the U.S.
Ameriprise which is sustaining.
So I would say that there is a better balance here than we did when we acquired Threadneedle.
And so we will overcome that hurdle but we will experience continued outflows as that base of Columbia that came from Bank of America diversifies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
Is that helpful? Research Division</strong> Yes that is.
So the lost revenues on the outflows we're going to be seeing your point is that it's somewhat similar to the dynamic that's going on with Threadneedle but probably less of a spread if I think about the basis points on new mandates versus the business you're losing is that a fair way to put it? Yes for the stuff that will come out over time.
For the stuff that has already come out the basis points we lost wasn't as significant because a lot of that was in the institutional pension Balboa things like that.
So that was even a lower basis point than the Zurich is on average.
But on the stuff that will continue let's say as an on-going through retail would be a bit higher basis points than Zurich but again the mandates we're winning and retail would be higher than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
The next question I had is Jim just given how well you guys are executing in Advice &amp; Wealth right now any thoughts on more aggressively investing into this business whether it's M&amp;A a much bigger ramp-up of hiring new advisors any thoughts on that? Yes we continue to invest nicely into the AWM business as I said and you've seen over the last number of years our technology our branding some of our online capabilities in mobile.
We're coming out with our Confident Retirement approach we've added some extra resources to help our advisors train up on the tools and capabilities to integrate their practices particularly to engage clients with the online and activities around how people want to do business in a more 360 dimension today.
So we continue to do that.
Regarding recruitment very clearly we have still a good pipeline.
We're out there.
We've actually expanded our reach over the last year or 2.
As you know the industry has slowed a bit in there and you can see others in the first and second quarter but we feel like we have a good pipeline and that has come back.
And we'll continue to reach out there for recruitment and additions.
We do buy some individual smaller practices and other things that we add.
Having said that we don't look to go out and just buy independents at this point because we like sort of our model and we -- anybody who we feel and is interested in joining our model as a franchisee or as our employee with our value proposition we would definitely be interested in.
But we're not just out there trying to roll up firms to grow advisor accounts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question I had just on a numbers question for Walter.
So Page 38 of the supplement disclosed items the $21 million earnings drag from I guess what you guys are labeling compensation items.
Can you just give a bit more granularity on what exactly this is from which segments this is showing up in? And whether or not all or some of this is going to go away by next quarter? Well okay.
It spreads across all the segments and including corporate because obviously there's an element there.
So it deals with first and foremost a very high-class problem we have on compensation as it relates to retention for advisors formation or block.
We actually have a higher retention factor relating to that and we are recognizing that now obviously as we're getting closer to the periods.
So there's really a big big big plus for us.
So that will continue towards as we go towards the end of the year.
But -- and then obviously that would end.
The performance as your doing it is it relates to really assessing both on our programs and it goes across certainly our asset management approach goes [indiscernible] as we evaluate where that level is.
And we now have assessed that and we've taken it up which then taking it up in the second quarter takes it up obviously for the prior quarter.
And now going forward that should stay at the level again we will reassess as we try and get our accruals as accurate as possible as we think the end performance would be there.
So I think it follows a normal pattern that we've done sometime and -- so it's across the board and it's certainly on that basis it deals with that.
The other thing that we have and it's not on -- as it relates -- Page 21 it relates to severance and which we from time to time we reflect the severance and the severance is reflected in the corporate segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Walter how much -- it sounds like there's some kind of tail on this $21 million meaning it doesn't go to 0 next quarter.
Can you just frame that out? How much of this $21 million would you expect to recur? Let me -- we're doing obviously in the second quarter we're booking up for the first quarter in some of the -- and in the area that I mentioned.
And again it will continue to book at that level as you look up to increase but you won't get the same because you're not catching up for the first quarter.
But it will -- we will certainly continue to book at a higher level.
And then you have to take apart the various components that relates to severance.
Severance again I can't tell you whether we will be booking through.
And then we will book through a portion of the elements as relates to the [indiscernible] block.
Research Division</strong> Okay and it gets smaller? It should certainly the level in the second quarter the third and fourth it should be -- again if it's constant if we don't change it should small.
Research Division</strong> So it should go down from $21 million fallen 1/2 or 1/3? Well Tom here we go.
It will go down.
The next question comes from Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim I was hoping we could return to the earlier discussion you had with another question or about U.S.
Trust.
Are you essentially saying I just want to get a sharper point around your answer? Are you essentially saying that: one U.S.
Trust is going to a more open architecture approach having relied heavily on Columbia; and two that there had been a mismatch that is evolving between your strength and strongest performance and their focus? Help me -- maybe we can go over that again please? No what I'm saying is first of all U.S.
Trust always had their diversified business.
And so what I'd mentioned to you is as an example there are certain portfolios in U.S.
Trust like the VNR [ph].
The gentleman who ran that was actually one of the PMs originally that was part of the U.S.
Trust business.
So as you would imagine assets build in those type of portfolios over the long term there's a good association their systems familiar with it.
So when he retired we experienced greater outflow right? Because that's a lot of where those assets were originally.
So you have those things that are normal in any distribution system.
In regard to what I've mentioned here is we at Columbia used to work very closely with U.S.
Trust on -- in their tax exempt categories in their SMAs and various things to craft individual client portfolios et cetera.
So when they rotate out of certain classes like that it's just like any other provider that may have been strong and fixed income in a certain distribution channel.
You're going to experience a bit more outflows when you rotate out because of that type of penetration.
And so that's part of what we're experienced.
And then part is when Columbia was there they had a certain lineup of funds.
And in those lineups that's what was sold within the distribution just like again on any platform.
When we merged the 2 platforms and now we have a larger lineup of funds we got to get some of those new funds in as they look at their own lineup of other carriers that they had.
And so if their installed base had a lot more of the Columbia funds originally for the reasons I've mentioned and then you're adding new types of business and your other funds you're trying to add are newer just as they have to try to get on and compete against the next person you're not going to win as much business as you once had but your redemptions will be higher because your base of assets is higher with that distributor.
And that's exactly what's happened.
That's why we said over time it would sort of normalize or equalize.
And again we have a good relationship it was a -- always a part of what they did for many many years.
So it does take a little time for that rebalancing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Second question.
It's interesting to me that it feels like and it seems like the retail picture at Threadneedle has been materially better than that at Columbia.
Would that be your perception too? And if so why this contrast? When you think of these 2 money managers and their mutual -- retail mutual fund businesses.
If it is in fact the case that in general Columbia has been in an outflow mode Threadneedle in inflow mode why the difference? So Eric very clearly let me take Threadneedle first okay? Threadneedle for many years had excellent performance.
But at the beginning just having excellent product and performance didn't get them to win business in the U.K.
because again in the past they worked more closely with Zurich and they focused on Zurich as a part of their proprietary house for that business.
So when we purchased Threadneedle we worked with Threadneedle to really diversify invest appropriately so that we took more time and effort.
But it took years for us to get onto those platforms and channels in the U.K.
I mean last year I'll give you an example even with some of the larger players there we actually for a few quarters actually became the #1 seller in the U.K.
because we had good performance.
But we've been there and we took the time to build those relationships and positioning.
And we had great product that was what was in demand there.
And that's what we're doing right now with Threadneedle in Europe.
So again 2 years ago we weren't really selling much in Europe.
We're trying to build that.
Now we're starting to sell in Europe after it took us the time to build.
And so that's what's happening at Threadneedle.
Columbia has good product and good performance.
Having said that a number of years ago Columbia didn't have that performance and they were dealing with a lot of their own things and the roll up of those firms from Fleet and Bank of America and Nations and all that and going through their changes.
But they also had big focus on when they merged into U.S.
Trust business and the Asset Management business with the Fleet business with the Bank of America business there was roll up with Nations.
So over time those things have to settle they actually want 1 brand called Columbia.
And so it wasn't as though they were firmly established for a long period of time.
And so when we acquired them they were on their way.
But when we acquired them that disrupted a little bit too right? It put things on hold we had to merge funds there's a number of changes that occur.
So that's exactly what's happening.
So I actually see this as still a terrific opportunity but it does take more time than we once think about because it wasn't as though Columbia was all settled and established for a long period of time prior.
It was a roll up of things that they did a good job putting together to become Columbia.
And over time the team there actually developed good performance.
And if you go back their track record years ago probably wasn't as strong as it is today.
And that continues to build to give us the consistency with a wider platform of product.
So that's exactly what's occurring Eric.
And again sometimes we look at it but there's been a lot of change in the industry a lot of flow issues because of markets and now fixed incomes backing up a little bit.
So it takes a little time.
The last question comes from John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Question on Asset Management on the I guess at least on the GAAP-based operating margin.
If we exclude the couple of onetime items the onetime gains that you guys called out this quarter I think it calculates out to about 19.5% 19.6% margin.
How should we think about the drivers of the improvement in that margin as we look forward? I mean is this really -- the margin improvement is really about a turn in flows? Are there other factors aside from just market performance that might contribute to the expansion of the margin there? Obviously it's a flow and as you would get to that certainly it's the mix of business as we look through.
You're using the GAAP approach and obviously if you use the adjusted approach which tends to normalize it you would get that.
It clearly it's reengineering and other elements as we improve margins that will continue to drive that.
So there is -- it is getting -- if it's a very leveraged business and as you make the contributes to it and the mix shift between the businesses equity markets and fixed and other things of that nature.
Those are all the key drivers.
I mean that's obviously again another focus of the firm and I think it's consistent with what we've said in the past.
Research Division</strong> Well and then if just sort of drill down and look at the management fee rate this quarter I mean notwithstanding the fact that flows shifted equities as a percentage of AUM was definitely up.
And the fee rate expanded pretty nicely on the quarter-over-quarter basis.
I mean is that really what we should be looking for? Is overall equities as a percentage of AUM moving higher and to the extent that that happens that fee rates just naturally moves higher? I mean I guess this sort of goes part and parcel with Tom's question earlier about fee rate of assets coming off versus the fee rate of assets coming on.
Well I think it's very consistent and your observation is correct.
As Ted talked about it at the FCM [ph] it certainly as equity markets take on greater proportions that would be the beneficial factor as it relates to our margins.
And certainly -- but again that is certainly a key driver Jim I don't know...
As Walter also said it's the mix or you just said that as some of the outflows have occurred in the lower margin business or lower fee-based business not necessarily margin that's exactly what you'll start to see transfer.
Now again I think it's a little lumpy and it's not a perfect science every quarter because you have a number of those different variables or key levers happening but that's exactly what you said.
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess that's what I'm trying to get at is not -- I'm trying to sort to see whether -- prevent getting ahead of ourselves and how much this fee rate can move higher.
Yes don't let you get ahead of yourself there.
Research Division</strong> The last thing I wanted to just ask is there's a lot of moving parts there's U.S.
Trust you have some issues at Marsico you've got the RIA the adjustments that you made.
As we look forward I know you guys sort of quote fund flows including reinvested dividends but if we look at it x reinvested dividends where clearly there's a seasonal factor to that how do we -- do you have real -- do have any visibility on how we should expect especially Columbia retail net flows to trends here if we exclude reinvested dividends? I wish I had a crystal ball I don't.
The only thing I can say is this on a few of the leverage one is we made the change with the RIA.
People knew it was coming the first quarter.
The change actually went in at the end of the March.
You would always experience a little more adjustment after that occurs which we did in the second quarter from the first.
I don't know if that will continue or slow down et cetera.
We think it hopefully will slow down.
Regarding Marsico as an example very good partner over time built a good business their performance has come back.
They're settled et cetera.
Having said that some of those things are lumpy based on how people evaluate them in their portfolio.
So we think we'll experience a little of that again but hopefully their performance and activities will come back there.
And again on the U.S.
Trust as I would say is there is going to be a continuation and normalization there but we're working hard to get more inflows.
I actually have seen the sales pickup nicely.
And then what happened in June for everybody with the pullback in the bond market affected a lot of people's sales and activities.
So listen I don't have a crystal ball.
The only thing I can tell you is we're working hard.
We're looking at all the various levers to grow the business.
And sometimes you hit some more quickly better at certain spots but I think we have opportunity and we just got to work at it.
And hopefully we'll get that to go in the right direction.
And that's what we're pushing for.
Research Division</strong> And one last real quick one if I can sneak it in there's been some outflows pretty consistently out of the alternatives asset classes.
Maybe you can just give us an update on where things stand I know accrue performance fees back late in the fourth quarter or in the fourth quarter but where this performance stand? Right now I think performance is improved again with the flows coming off it will not be a major factor.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Ameriprise Financial Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
My name is Paulette and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Alicia Charity.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial's Third Quarter Earnings Call.
On the call with me today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provides insight into the company's operations.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today’s materials that are available on our website.
Some statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management’s expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today’s date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today’s earnings release our 2012 annual report to shareholders and our 2012 10-K report.
We make no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim.
Good morning and thanks for joining us for our third quarter earnings call.
I'll begin with my perspective on what was a strong quarter for Ameriprise and share how I'm feeling about the business.
Walter will discuss the numbers in more detail and then we'll take your questions.
As you saw yesterday we reported record third quarter results with operating earnings at a strong 36%.
I'm feeling good about how Ameriprise is positioned and the progress we're making.
Activity is picking up assets are up across the firm and we're maintaining expense levels as we continue to invest for growth.
Our Wealth Management business had another terrific quarter.
And our assets under management and administration increased 8% to $735 billion reflecting good advisor client flows and market appreciation.
Our capital and financial foundation essential to our ability to grow and to navigate the environment remains in great shape.
We have the capital strength free cash flow and ability to return the majority of our operating earnings to shareholders annually which we will continue to do.
During the quarter we returned $475 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Over the last 4 quarters we returned 129% of our operating earnings to shareholders.
With our strong earnings and capital return we delivered a record high operating return on equity of 19.4% and we're moving forward on our path with purpose executing the strategy we regularly discussed with you and achieving the returns that we've targeted.
Let's talk about our segments beginning with Advice &amp; Wealth Management.
As I mentioned our AWM business is performing very well.
Our strategy is working.
We're continuing the progress we've made in delivering excellent financial results with room to grow.
Operating net revenue is up 12% to $1.1 billion and that's including the weight of low interest rates in our decision to exit the banking business.
Client and advisors are engaged and we're bringing in good client flows.
As an example this is the third consecutive quarter that we've seen at least $3 billion come in through our RAP program which is on pace for a record year.
Total client assets are up 13% to $389 billion.
Our advisors are increasingly productive.
Adjusting for the bank per advisor productivity increased 16% from good asset growth and strong transactional activity.
We continue to manage our overall expense base well.
Margins grew nicely to 14.2% close to a 200-basis-point improvement from a year ago even after the loss of the bank earnings and lowest spread revenues on our large cash business.
We're focused on what we believe are significant opportunities to strengthen our position drive productivity and improve efficiencies as we help advisors use the resources and the capabilities that we have invested in for them.
Our priority is to continue to bring in new clients and assets and we're energized about how our Confident Retirement approach can help do that.
Our advisors are telling us how effective it is and simplifying the conversation with clients and prospects to help them better understand what they need to think about for a secure and confident retirement.
We're seeing good results.
Our latest surveys show very high levels of client and advisor satisfaction confidence and value provided.
Our goal is to engage even more of our advisors through field training to take advantage of the Confident Retirement approach in their practices.
And we want to continue to attract new people both clients and experienced advisors to Ameriprise.
In terms of our brand and advertising we're working with Tommy Lee Jones again because we like the way he conveys our story and consumers and advisors have responded well.
We're currently filming new ads that you'll see early next year.
We're also helping advisors benefit from the investments we've made included in technology with the brokerage platform and our e-tools and online.
Our advisors are finding that our technology platform helps them increase efficiency and drive productivity.
Overall our advisor force is engaged and motivated.
In terms of recruiting we're bringing in good people as more advisors look to Ameriprise as a place to grow and engage more clients.
Another 86 experienced advisors joined the firm in the third quarter and the pipeline looks good.
External research has shown that Ameriprise is one of the most trusted financial firms in the industry.
It was another excellent quarter for AWM.
We're delivering good growth and profitability in both the employee and franchise channels.
The business is consistently generating results we expected and that we told you we could achieve.
Our focus is to remain on the same path execute well to maintain our momentum.
In Asset Management we're executing our stated strategy as we focus the business in areas where we see strong opportunity for growth.
We have more work to do.
However in the meantime we're delivering good financial results and beginning to gain traction in key long-term growth drivers.
Our assets under management reached $479 billion up 4% for a year ago due to the positive equity markets in the U.S.
and Europe and from the initial progress we're making.
The resulting revenue growth is good and we continue to manage expenses tightly.
Operating earnings are up 15% to $178 million and adjusted net operating margin is a competitive 40%.
We continue to channel resources in the areas where we see traction.
Overall we're delivering competitive long-term investment performance.
We're making steady progress establishing our global investment teams as Columbia and Threadneedle align resources and strength to drive profitable flows.
During the quarter we added to our presence in Asia.
We hired an experience Asian equities team based in Singapore as we build our manufacturing distribution and capability in the region.
In terms of flows Walter will get into the numbers but the outflows in the quarter were consistent with sources we previously identified.
Legacy insurance mandates former parent affiliated distribution a sub-advisor and share class changes in the RIA channel.
Similar to the industry in the third quarter we experienced high redemptions in fixed income portfolios.
We've been able to largely offset that pressure with good traction in some key growth areas.
We're generating very good U.K.
and European retail net flows as we overcome ongoing outflows of legacy insurance assets.
This is a core theme at Threadneedle managing a pool of lower fee assets in transition while growing the higher fee wholesale business.
And domestically we're beginning to see some traction in the underlying third-party intermediary channel largely in equities.
When you adjust for the drivers we've discussed third-party intermediate equity flows have improved as we focused our wholesaling efforts and benefited from the market conditions.
That said we have a lot more work to do.
In institutional we're gaining good traction.
The traditional institutional business is healthy.
In addition to a good flow of U.S.
equity and fixed income mandates we're winning mandates on a more global basis.
Our pipeline is quite good.
Our win rate is high and we more than doubled our new assets won versus where we were a year ago.
Overall in Asset Management we know that we need to execute well to strengthen our position in the marketplace.
We're already getting good positive financial returns and we're beginning to gain some traction.
There's a lot more work to do but we're moving in a positive direction.
Let's move to Annuities and Protection.
Businesses that are important to us because of our focus in meeting clients long-term financial needs and our Confident Retirement approach.
Both Annuities and Protection are performing well and in line with our expectations given the rate environment and weather related factors.
Our Annuities business is well-positioned and we're generating good returns with lower risk and volatility.
Revenues were up modestly and earnings were up considerably given the year-over-year unlocking swing which Walter will discuss.
We've built a differentiated business that we're growing at a pace we want with focus on serving Ameriprise clients.
In variable annuities cash sales and Ameriprise grew 14% and sales of our managed volatility funds have continued to increase in recent months with improved equity markets and good wholesaling.
We've made strategic decisions to continue to de-risk the portfolio to lower volatility.
We recently announced product feature and fee changes for some of our in force variable annuities with living benefit guarantees.
These decisions reflect the market environment and our commitment to providing policyholders with additional investment options to help manage volatility.
And in fixed annuities we feel good about our existing book but aren't adding to it given the interest rate environment.
As I look to next year we're working through our decision to reprice a portion of the book that could help relieve some of the spread compression.
In Protection our financial results in the quarter reflected higher weather-related losses and an unfavorable unlocking impact.
That said the underlying business is performing as we would expect.
The growth of our Life business is directly aligned with the growth we're driving in Wealth Management.
Our advisors offer our products to their clients as follow the Confident Retirement approach and we're seeing good growth in life insurance sales of 20% from last year.
Index universal life sales continue to be strong and we're also experiencing improvement in variable universal life sales.
In Auto and Home earnings suffered because of the external environment where we had higher cap losses in the quarter from multiple storms.
That said our Auto and Home business metrics are good.
We had steady policy growth of 10% from a year ago.
We're working to deepen penetration with our affinity partners and with our own advisors and we're seeing nice progress.
Auto and Home is rated one of the best for client satisfaction and retention also remains very high.
To summarize we had a strong third quarter to continue what is shaping up to be a very good year.
Our business results and progress demonstrate that Ameriprise is on the right path.
We're executing our strategy serving more clients and growing as we drive improvements across the company.
Overall we're generating excellent return on equity and we're going to continue to focus on improving it.
With strong earnings and our ability to generate significant free cash flow we're able to continue to return to shareholders as we have in the past.
With that I'd like to hand things over to Walter for a detailed review of the numbers.
Thank you Jim.
Ameriprise delivered excellent financial results this quarter.
Business fundamentals remain strong top line growth was solid expenses were well-managed and we had record profitability.
Operating net revenue growth was strong at 7% or 8% excluding the impact from exiting the bank.
This was driven by our targeted growth areas Advice and Wealth Management and Asset Management.
These 2 segments continue to deliver good growth and now represent over 60% of our total revenues.
Growth in Advice &amp; Wealth Management excluding former bank operations was 16% which includes the impact of low interest rates.
The growth in this segment was generated by solid business fundamentals including growth in client assets good transaction levels as well as market appreciation.
The year-over-year revenue growth was 6% and asset management was impacted by redemption driven hedge fund performance fees realized in the prior year.
Adjusting for these performance fees revenue growth was 9% primarily from strong markets the asset mix shift and revenue reengineering.
In Protection and Annuities revenue grew 3% excluding the impact from unlocking which is in line of our expectations particularly in our continued low-interest rate environment.
Let's turn to earnings on Slide 4.
Ameriprise pretax operating earnings growth was 39% with particularly strong growth in Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management.
Together these segments represent almost 60% of pretax operating earnings.
In Advice &amp; Wealth Management earnings grew 49% after adjusting for the bank exit despite the continued pressure from low-interest rates.
Asset Management earnings increased 15% supported by market appreciation.
Adjusting for hedge fund performance fees in the prior year period Asset Management earnings grew 20%.
Annuities earnings growth was on target at 7% excluding unlocking and the market impact of DAC and DSIC.
The variable annuity earnings were good and fixed annuity earnings declined as expected given low-interest rates.
In the Protection segment.
Earnings in the quarter were impacted by higher CAT losses and the annual unlocking.
Let's turn to EPS and return on equity on Slide 5.
Operating earnings per share were $1.91 up a robust 45% and operating return on equity hit an all-time high of 19.4%.
Normalizing for items identified in the earnings release these metrics are still quite strong with EPS growth of 17% and return on equity of 18.8%.
This performance has been quite strong given the low-interest rate environment which impacted earnings by $39 million compared to the prior year.
The growth in EPS and return on equity reflect both solid business fundamentals and growth as well as our ability to redeploy capital which we feel is a real strong point of differentiation for Ameriprise.
Moving to the segments.
Let's start with Advice &amp; Wealth Management on Slide 6.
We continue to deliver excellent results in Advice &amp; Wealth Management across the board.
Business growth metrics revenue growth and expense discipline all of which drove strong earnings and significant margin expansion.
Pretax operating earnings excluding former bank operations grew 49% from growth in client assets and advisor productivity.
I will note that this growth was in the face of a negative impact of $18 million from lower spreads on cash sweep accounts and certificates.
As a point of reference brokerage cash sweep balances were $19 billion at the end of the quarter and the rate on a net basis was 15 basis points on average in the quarter down from 38 basis points on average a year ago.
Growth in client assets and strong activity levels coupled with strong expense management have driven margins to a high of 14.2% even with the bank exit and the lower interest rates.
Turning to Asset Management on Slide 7.
Revenue was $777 million up 9% primarily from market appreciation offset by outflows.
In the quarter earnings were up 15% to $178 million.
Excluding the redemption driven hedge fund performance fees earnings were up 20%.
Earnings growth was particularly strong due to well-managed expenses.
While total expenses were up with the markets G&amp;A was fairly flat year-over-year.
Adjusting for the expenses associated with the performance fees in the prior year G&amp;A was up only 3%.
Adjusted operating margins improved to 40% from 37.6% a year ago reflecting good revenue growth and tight expense management.
Let's turn to flows in more detail on Slide 8.
In the quarter we had a total of $4.3 billion of net outflows.
We had a total of $4.6 billion of outflows in the former parent-related and other areas we previously discussed.
We had outflows of approximately $2 billion across retail and institutional associated with 1 large former parent affiliated distribution partner.
As we've said outflows will continue as our share in that distribution channel normalizes though this quarter was a bit high given the rotation out of fixed income experienced by the industry and us.
In the U.S.
retail we had $900 million of outflows at a sub-advisor and $400 million of outflows resulting from the share class change we made in the RIA channel earlier this year.
In the institutional business we had $1.3 billion of outflows related to legacy insurance mandates at Threadneedle and former parent influence mandates at Columbia.
Additionally we experienced fixed income outflows similar to the industry.
However we are gaining some traction including U.K.
and European retail where we had good inflows as well as in the U.S.
third-party institutional where we have a very strong pipeline.
Turning to Annuities on Slide 9.
Pretax operating earnings were $219 million which includes a $73 million favorable impact from unlocking and the market impact on DAC and DSIC.
Our variable annuity business remains strong with a high-quality in-force block and good growth in attractive new businesses.
We also announced several proactive change to a small portion of our variable annuity block with living benefit riders in the quarter including providing additional fund offering for existing clients.
Variable annuity pretax operating earnings was $185 million including a favorable impact from unlocking and the market impact on DAC and DSIC.
The unlocking was primarily related to higher interest rates and bond fund returns as well as changes in assumed policyholder behavior.
In fixed annuities pretax operating earnings were $34 million with a minimal impact from unlocking.
The results in the quarter included about $11 million of lower earnings from spread compression.
However the higher investment income from former bank assets transferred into this portfolio late last year offset the interest impact by $6 million.
Operating return on allocated equity was over 20% for the Annuity segment and it included $500 million of contingent capital allocated to variable annuities for stress scenarios.
Moving to Protection on Slide 10.
Pretax operating earnings was $75 million which included an unfavorable impact from unlocking elevated CAT losses and pressure from low-interest rates.
Underlying Life &amp; Health business remains solid.
We had good sales of both variable universal life and index universal life.
Claims experience was good and well within our expectations.
Auto and Home has continued strong new policy sales growth across market segments from our affinity partnerships.
Earnings in the quarter reflected an increase in reserves primarily from $15 million in CAT losses and our normal quarterly actuarial experienced model uptick.
Let's turn to capital on Slide 11.
In the quarter we returned $475 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
As you can see we have been able to consistently return more than 100% of earnings to shareholders due to our business mix shift risk management capabilities and strong balance sheet fundamentals.
Based on current market conditions we expect to fully neutralize the EPS impact of exiting the bank by year end.
We issued $600 million of senior debt in the quarter to retire existing debt.
We have announced plans to execute a make-whole of $350 million of our outstanding senior debt that matures in November of 2015.
We expect that this will result in approximately a $20 million loss in the fourth quarter which will come through the corporate segment.
Overall we have successfully laddered out our debt maturities and reduced our ongoing debt expense.
We ended the quarter with continued strong balance sheet fundamentals and over $2 billion of excess capital.
And we expect that our approach to returning capital to shareholders will continue to make Ameriprise unique.
With that we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Great.
You guys did a pretty good job kind of dissecting all the moving pieces in the flows for the Asset Management business.
But I was hoping like taking a step back maybe you can tell us a little bit more on the fees for the stuff that's kind of parent-related and running off versus I guess the new assets that are coming in because we know Zurich is low fee but I was wondering if you can kind of tell us on some of the U.S.
Trust pieces and some of the Marsical pieces as well? Well Alex if you look at the overall fees versus our assets we've been actually improving over the sequence.
So we are as we explained the basically we're accreting on for the year-to-date on the assets that are coming in versus the assets that are leaving.
So on that basis we are mostly making up from a revenue standpoint.
As you can see our percentages have increased over the quarters.
We don't get into the specifics as it relates to each one of the elements but certainly the elements are dealing with that in the way that we thought it would occur.
Research Division</strong> Just so kind of steady markets and assuming these dynamic continues because you guys still do have a decent amount I guess that could be running off.
I guess we should continue to see an improvement in the fee rate overall that's fair.
I think that's correct.
That's a good observation.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just real quick on AWM I was hoping you could remind us given the good improvement you've seen in sort of both channels in the franchisee and the employee side where the pretax margins are on each one of these sub-segments within AWM? Well okay.
We really don't go -- as we said the employees side of it is certainly moving into profitability as Jim has said and -- so that is making -- and that has the higher fix expense that we are getting into a positive margin there and we anticipate over time that we will certainly get to the levels of performance that we see in the franchise channel.
Overall you saw that we had a 14.2% and that takes into consideration certainly the bank last year was not there and that's a big impact and then the lower interest rates.
So we do see the improvement in both of the -- in the 2 areas and you're going to see I think a greater improvement obviously coming from the employee channel.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So employee is profitable but not significantly profitable right? So low-single digit margin is probably fair? Yes that's fair and again it's building now because that has the high fixed and now we're making -- building in the volume and the activity level.
So it's an obviously the lower pay outs that we will actually start to accrete our margin in that area as we build according to our plan.
Our next question comes from Bill Katz from Citi.
This is Steve in for Bill.
Given the lower G&amp;A in the quarter for Asset Management should we look at 40% as a sustainable margin? And is there room for margin expansion x outside the AUM growth? Yes I think on the expense side and certainly if you look at the trend line and the expenses that you saw in the third quarter is probably a reasonably good run rate on that.
And as far as expansion certainly we anticipate that we're at a pretty good level right now and hopefully as we get the AUM getting the flow improvement we would see that and the markets are certainly helping.
But the expenses are pretty much in line where we anticipate.
Okay great.
And then the performance on asset allocation equity remains strong.
How is that playing out in flows and when may you get credit for that solid performance? Well we feel that the longer-term track records are good.
We had a little slippage in the 1 year numbers but we feel that those are larger quality portfolios that are more driven by dividend type of stocks et cetera.
So they've underperformed a little bit in the quarters.
But I think our track records are strong and I think they are playing well out there and again this is a focus area for us to improve our flows over time and we're gaining some traction in our institutional business in that way and retail is starting to pick up.
So we do believe that it will hopefully pay some dividends as we move forward.
Our next question comes from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions.
First on Advice &amp; Wealth Management the advisor productivity statistic that you have in your supplement I think 110 000 per advisor.
Obviously there's lots of moving parts that kind of going into that number market-related fees interest rates et cetera.
But maybe just a high-level Jim could you kind of give us a sense of where you think that productivity statistic could go over time? And again not putting any specific timeframe on it but just kind of where would you like to see that number? Well.
First of all to a point reference of we've made some very good progress.
Third quarter is usually -- seasonally a little slower period but we didn't see as a full out there so actually on a relative basis we'd say that we're continuing good momentum from the second quarter.
And so we feel like that should continue.
I think we have a lot of the pieces in place.
Our advisors are focused.
Client activity has come back.
I -- We still have a good new inflow of assets.
More assets have gone into our assets under management program.
Our cash levels are still quite high.
I mean I think relatively good and strong so it could be deployed even further over time.
And we are much more focused on our Confident Retirement approach which we think is actually helping as well to get even more clients engaged in our financial planning process and advice proposition.
We are deploying a lot of the tools we invested in that are out there.
The uptake is beginning to be very good and we know that the use of these tools and capabilities better engage clients and also frees up more time for the advisor and their teams so that they can actually even become more productive.
So we are very much focused on continuing this.
I think one of the things we've always tried to do is continue the productivity not just add new advisors but to continue productivity on our current base which we've been doing.
So I look forward to that continuing and we are targeting that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
In terms of the pieces.
But just maybe stepping back I mean how -- we look at some of the benchmarking work that -- we've done some benchmarking work relative to other distribution systems and it seems like there's a pretty wide gap between where you are and where say Morgan Stanley is or Bank of America is and I get that -- the disclosures are different and the models are different and I understand all of that.
But assuming that there is a pretty sizable gap how much of that gap do you think you could close on a go-forward basis? Okay.
So what we'd have -- what we look at it is that -- so when you compare us to the wire houses their focus is really on a bit more of the higher affluent type client on average and so their productivity per person is driven a little more by that activity.
Ours is a little more on the massive flow into affluent and so we get a deep more consistent revenue stream from the multiple ways that we deploy and deepen the relationship through our financial advice.
Now on a -- against the independents remember our franchisee model is more of an independent model.
We are the #1 house on the street.
Our productivity is way above the large houses there if you compare us to some of the independents.
So if you look at the franchisee channel which is our largest channel we are highly productive against the industry.
If you look at us against the wire house channel based on the nature of the type of business and where their focus is yes we have room to grow.
Now our growth and productivity has been pretty significant over the years and we see there's a lot opportunity to further grow that.
So I actually think that we will be able to penetrate those higher ranks.
We are -- our advisors are focused on bringing in more clients at the higher asset levels today and position themselves to have all the capability they have all the knowledge.
We have actually some of the best tools out there and our advice proposition is strong.
So that's exactly to your point where we are focused.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So bottom line there you see some decent upside to this $110 000 per advisor statistic that you guys reported in the third quarter? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And I guess Jim you had some comments I think in your prepared remarks about the Columbia retail business and how you're starting to see some third-party flows I think related to equities and I didn't quite get all the numbers.
I am just wondering if you can maybe drill into that a little bit and give us some color in terms of what's going on there? Yes I think there are 3 aspects where we see positive momentum beginning and one strong.
So of course it was Walter mentioned and I did Europe continues to be strong in both retail in the U.K.
and Europe.
It was a little slow on a net basis because we have 1 large mandated fixed income that left in the third quarter but that was sort of a larger blip that occurred.
Other than that the flows were quite strong and it would have been in a larger net inflows during the quarter adjusted for that one fixed income mandate on the platform.
In the U.S.
our institutional business has picked up nicely.
So we recorded and booked a bit more wins but there is a large win -- wins that have not funded yet and the pipeline is actually the largest that's ever been for us and continues to grow and so we hopefully will see that come in over the next few quarters.
And that offset some of the x-parent stuff that we experienced in that channel and that's beginning to slow to as that base of assets has diminished a bit.
And then the last piece is on the intermediary and the third-party.
It's hard to see some of those inflows because we just like the industry got hit with in the third quarter a bit more of the outflows in fixed income so if you adjust for some of the x-parent activity in that thing or the Marsico RIA type thing we did see a pickup in retail equity flows but it was offset by the fixed income that got a little higher redemptions across the channel.
But we see that being a bit more positive as we move into the fourth quarter as well and we think that the fixed income outflows will slow a bit as we've been saying more recently and I think some of the buckets that we've mentioned the sub-advisor and the RIA will also slow on the outflow basis.
So that's sort of an initial feel but again we got a lot of the quarter to go.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then last question for Walter I guess on the capital return.
At some point I guess we've been sitting here thinking that the $2 billion number would start to come down especially as you're returning more than you're generating and earnings.
But it seems like that excess capital is sort of staying at that $2 billion slightly over $2 billion level.
So I guess at what point should we expect as we move into 2014 that that feels sort of draw down some of that excess capital or how should we think about that going forward? Yes.
Okay.
We certainly as we look at it it's a bit of a high-class problem because we are generating a lot of free cash flow and capital and also been improving our requirements on it.
So it's our intention again as we indicated not to certainly hold onto $2 billion plus and certainly we're evaluating those options as it relates to both from a dividend standpoint and from shareholder repurchase.
So it is -- we are on track like I said if you look at the numbers repurchase so far over $1.1 billion and the dividends certainly $307 million.
So we are on track to achieve what we said for the year and certainly as we evaluate 2014 we had the capacity and capability to certainly assess.
We certainly still feel that with this room to refer valuation that we -- it still make sense to us and we would expect that it's not our objective to hold onto $2 billion.
And I think Walter it's probably incumbent as much on is again this year as we've tightened and introduced various adjustments to our products and tightened our hedging and moved in some of the dynamics of some of our capital-intensive businesses we've been able to free up a bit more capital and so that's the reason why we still have maintained a stronger capital days after returning the extra and part of that extra as you know we did from the exit of the bank which will gives us a high returning overall company in the future.
So I think over time you'll start to see that adjust as we return -- continue to return well.
But we also are generating more free cash flow because the type of the shift in the mix of the businesses.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
This is David Motemaden on behalf of Tom Gallagher.
Just have another question on the lower expenses in Asset Management.
Just really was wondering what was behind that mainly was it comp or non-comp expenses? No.
In the Asset Management actually it is -- if you looking sequentially the expenses in the quarter were actually -- we had certainly we're upped our comp but the net effect was pretty much a normal quarter for us.
If you do on a sequential we had basically the CDO element in that quarter the prior year and the hedge funds in the prior year to date.
So expenses are tracking.
As we indicated we are managing them quite well and certainly we feel that we can continue on this track.
So there was really no aberrations in the quarter at all.
Got it.
And then I know historically there have been some higher performance fees from the alternative AUM.
I'm just wondering how to think about that heading into the 4Q? No.
I think again on the alternative is certainly it's -- we don't just see a big impact into the fourth quarter.
Yes that asset base has come down a lot as we've mentioned over the last number of quarters.
So that should not be a major impact at all.
We have no further questions.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2013 and Year End Earnings Call.
My name is Ellen and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Alicia Charity.
Ms.
Charity you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial's fourth quarter earnings call.
On the call with me today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the company's operations.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP numbers to their respective GAAP numbers can be found in today's materials available on our website.
Some statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management's expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today's date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today's earnings release our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders and our 2012 10-K report.
We take no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim.
Good morning and thanks for joining us for our fourth quarter earnings call.
Ameriprise achieved significant growth across many dimensions with a strong fourth quarter capping off an excellent year.
As you saw yesterday we reported revenue growth of 8% for the quarter and 7% for the year on an operating basis.
Operating earnings per diluted share were up 9% for the quarter and 26% for the year.
Our 2 growth businesses performed strongly.
Fourth quarter pretax operating earnings in Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management were $356 million up 37% from a year ago.
And for the year we generated $1.3 billion in pretax operating earnings from these 2 businesses up a very strong 31%.
Because of the significant growth we've experienced in these businesses they now represent 56% of our full year total business segment pretax operating earnings and we're looking to take that number higher.
This morning I'd like to cover how I'm feeling about the business as well as my perspective on the quarter and the year overall.
Walter will discuss the numbers in more detail and then we'll take your questions.
There are 4 highlights that I want you to take away.
We're seeing good growth and profitability.
Our results and progress demonstrate that we're executing our strategy growing strongly and building off a solid foundation.
Activity and assets continued to increase.
Assets under management administration hit a record $771 billion.
We feel good about our ability to capitalize on our opportunities in the financial services marketplace and we've demonstrated that we can continue to invest while maintaining excellent expense levels.
Our financial foundation remains one of the best in the industry.
It provides important strategic flexibility and enables us to generate strong returns.
In terms of our level of shareholder and capital return we're at the higher end of the scale for a large cap financial firm.
We have the capital strength free cash flow and ability to return the majority of our operating earnings to shareholders annually.
During the quarter we returned $475 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
And for the year we've returned $1.9 billion or 130% of our full year operating earnings.
With strong business results in capital return we delivered another record high operating return on equity excluding AOCI of 19.7% setting ourselves apart from many of our competitors.
Let's talk about our segments beginning with Advice &amp; Wealth Management.
Advice &amp; Wealth had another terrific quarter.
We continue to build on our reputation as the company with the right expertise to help clients feel confident about their retirement and financial future as well as a place where productive experienced advisors can grow even stronger practices.
At the same time we're delivering excellent financial results.
Revenues earnings client assets and advisor productivity all grew by double digits.
Operating net revenue was up 12% to $1.1 billion reflecting good fundamentals and positive markets.
Clients continue to return to the markets and we're bringing in good client flows.
Total client assets grew 16% to $409 billion aided by a record year for our wrap business.
Wrap net inflows were up 38% with clients investing another $2.8 billion during the quarter.
For the year we were north of $13 billion of net inflows which helped grow the platform to more than $153 billion.
Our advisors are very engaged and productivity continues to grow nicely.
Adjusting for the loss of bank earnings per advisor productivity increased 14% from good asset growth and strong transactional activity generating a yearly rate of $440 000 per advisor.
We continue to effectively manage our overall expense base well.
Walter will give you the details but margin grew again even after adjusting for the bank and with lower spread revenues on our large cash business.
Our success in AWM comes in part from the deep relationships we have with clients and the fact that they stay with us a long time.
That's the ideal situation.
We're focused on delivering a superior client experience and helping our advisors use the capabilities we've invested in to serve more clients and grow their practices.
We're focused on deepening relationships as well as bringing in new clients and assets.
Our new confident retirement approach which builds of our financial planning proposition is proving to be successful in serving existing clients as well as gaining new ones.
Clients and prospects are responding very well and is resulting in higher flows and activity.
In fact we're quite excited to launch on February 8 our first formal advertising campaign to promote Confident Retirement.
Working with Tommy Lee Jones the campaign conveys how our advisors are uniquely positioned to help people answer their toughest retirement questions.
In fact you'll see a lot of Ameriprise on major TV programming including during the Olympics as well as online through the first half of the year.
In conjunction with this campaign we're also launching an interactive online experience on our website that allows consumers to explore and evaluate how prepared they feel for retirement see where they stand versus their peers and be directed to an Ameriprise advisor.
In addition to advertising and marketing support we continue to invest in our online and web experience to ensure that doing business with Ameriprise is simple and easy.
Technology clearly plays an essential role in delivering a better experience in driving productivity.
With tools like e-Signature check scanning and e-Paper advisors can now submit new business online as we move to a more paperless office over time one that is both efficient and secure.
Our advisors are finding that our technology platform helps them serve clients better increase efficiency and drive productivity.
In terms of recruiting we continue to bring in good advisors who value our culture our leadership and what we do to support advisor growth.
80 experienced advisors came on board in the fourth quarter and the pipeline looks good for the year ahead.
Clients and advisors want to work with a reputable trusted firm.
I told you last quarter that external research ranked Ameriprise as one of the most trusted financial firms in the industry.
Our advisor engagement is strong and growing.
Our client retention and satisfaction also remains in excellent stead.
We have a great value proposition and in fact in the 2014 Forrester Customer Experience Index Ameriprise was rated #1 in customer experience across investment firms.
In summary It was another terrific quarter and year for AWM.
Our brand is strong our momentum is good.
We're focused on ensuring our advisors have the right resources to serve clients well and grow productivity.
We're delivering good growth and profitability.
We continue to have excellent client and advisor satisfaction and the business is consistently generating the results we expected and we told you we could achieve.
In Asset Management we're generating strong financial results executing our strategy and we're focused on becoming a tough tier global asset manager.
For the segment our assets under management reached $501 billion up 10% from a year ago from positive equity markets in the U.S.
and Europe as well as good progress we're making in the U.K.
and European retail as well as in institutional.
We grew our revenues nicely and continue to manage expenses tightly.
And for the year Asset Management earned $715 million up 28% from the prior year.
I'm pleased with the earnings growth and I recognize we have more to do to overcome outflows from our ex-parent relationships.
The story in Asset Management remains consistent with what I've been sharing.
We continue to channel resources in areas where we see traction.
Overall we're delivering competitive long-term investment performance across many areas of equity and fixed income.
There are few areas where our short-term performance weakened slightly but we're addressing it.
We're growing our higher fee business especially in institutional and at Threadneedle which is showing up in the P&amp;L.
And we're making steady progress establishing our global investment teams as Columbia and Threadneedle align resources and strengths to drive profitable flows.
In terms of flows we experienced $5.5 billion of net inflows in the quarter which included a high level of reinvested dividends at Columbia given the market appreciation last year and the related gains in many portfolios.
At Columbia our sales were up in the quarter with strong traction in October and November.
However December was challenging for the finance [ph] industry which we experienced too.
Overall we're focused on gaining traction in the third party intermediary channel.
Our wholesaler productivity is improving and we have an excellent product line to sell.
Advisors are learning more about our research strength and core capabilities including in the income space where we have particular strength.
The pieces are in place to gain share on some key distribution platforms and models and we'll be stepping up our advertising marketing and due diligence meetings this year.
In terms of net inflows at Threadneedle we continue to maintain good traction in U.K.
and European retail funds.
In January however we lost part of our U.S.
equities team at Threadneedle.
A veteran member of the team who has directly managed about 1/3 of the fund's assets and who has had strong investment performance has taken over the management of these funds.
In institutional we're pleased with the steady growth we've seen in third-party institutional where we continue to see mandates funding maintaining a strong win rate and have a good pipeline of new activity.
This is helping to offset the legacy outflow pressures I've discussed.
Overall in asset management we're delivering competitive financial results and we're investing in the business.
We know there's more work in front of us but we're moving in a positive direction.
Now let's discuss Annuities and Protection.
These businesses are essential components of our value proposition and to bringing in more assets and deeper client relationships.
Our Annuities business continues to deliver the results we're targeting.
Revenues were up modestly and earnings were up nicely up 9%.
In variable annuities cash sales increased 3% year-over-year.
With continued strength in the equity markets and focused wholesaling efforts ending account balances are up and sales of managed volatility funds are growing.
As we told you last quarter we've taken steps to further de-risk the portfolio including providing policyholders with volatility controlled funds.
We've seen a good response from advisors and significant asset movement from clients.
From a capital perspective we have set aside capital in excess of our requirements in the events of market movements particularly for variable annuities.
And in fixed annuities we feel good about our existing book but aren't adding to it given the interest rate environment.
We're in the process of repricing a good portion of the book that should help release some of the spread compression caused by low rates.
This began last quarter with the majority of the block repricing in the first half of 2014.
In Protection the Life and Health business is performing well with good sales asset growth and good claims experience.
Our advisors offer our products to their clients as part of their confident retirement approach and we're seeing good growth in life insurance sales up 16% for the year in 2013.
Indexed universal life sales continue to be strong and we're also experience improvement in variable universal life sales and steady growth in variable universal life and universal life assets given the markets we've had.
We recently introduced the insurance e-application which streamlines the new business process for advisors and our back office.
It's getting good results.
We've also simplified our underwriting for a better client experience.
In Auto and Home premiums were up 10%.
We're continuing to see good policy growth across Home Auto and umbrella lines.
We're working to deepen penetration with our affinity partners and with our own advisors.
Our client satisfaction and retention remains very high.
Walter will provide color on the financials for the Annuities and Protection businesses.
To summarize we had a strong fourth quarter to wrap up a very good year.
Ameriprise is performing well especially Advice &amp; Wealth Management which continues to show excellent results.
In Asset Management we're generating solid returns but we have more work to do to gain flows at Columbia to overcome ex-parent activities.
Our Insurance and Annuity businesses are good books of business and complement our total offering.
From a company perspective we continue to be recognized in the industry for the client and advisor experience we provide and for how we run the company.
During the quarter Ameriprise was once again named as one of the leading community-minded companies in the nation in the second edition of the Civic 50.
We have the same strategic focus for 2014 and I believe we're positioned well for the year ahead.
As I mentioned at the start we delivered record return on equity and we think we can take it even higher.
With that I'd like to hand things over to Walt for a detailed review of the numbers.
Thank you Jim.
Ameriprise delivered excellent financial results this quarter and for the full year.
Business fundamentals remained strong top line growth was solid expenses were well-managed and we had strong profitability.
Starting with operating net revenue growth on page 3.
In total operating net revenues grew 8% led by strong growth in Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management.
If you exclude the impact of low rates revenues grew by 10%.
We had double-digit revenue growth in Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management driven by increases in client assets good transaction levels and market appreciation which was partially offset by the impact of net outflows and asset management.
Annuities and Insurance posted stable revenue growth which was in line with our expectations.
This growth in revenues has translated into strong earnings and margin expansion.
AWM margins increased to 14.4% up more than 250 basis points from last year.
Asset Management margins were 40.2%.
Combined Advice and Wealth Management and Asset Management's earnings grew 37% from last year and now account for 57% of earnings representing a substantial progress in shifting our business mix.
Let's turn to earnings on Slide 4.
We continue to grow operating return on equity reaching an all-time high of 19.7%.
Operating earnings per share were $1.87 up 9%.
The underlying growth rate was over 20% when we adjust for 2013 and 2012 disclosed unusual items.
Performance has been quite strong especially in light of low interest rate environment which impacted earnings by $38 million compared to the prior year.
Finally our ability to redeploy capital has contributed to EPS and ROE growth and is a strong point of differentiation for Ameriprise.
Moving to Slide 5.
Results for the full year are also strong and are similar to the trends we saw in the quarter.
In 2013 Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management coupled with effective capital management were the prime factors behind our 26% year-over-year EPS growth rate.
Earnings in these 2 segments increased over 30%.
Excellent growth considering the headwind from low interest rates and the exit of the bank.
Throughout the year we had solid business fundamentals including growth in client assets record wrap net inflows of $13.1 billion good transaction levels as well as market appreciation.
For the full year these 2 segments represent 56% of operating earnings.
Annuities and Protection continue to produce solid results with 9% growth rate.
These businesses continue to have a strong and differentiated risk profile.
Moving to the segments let's start with Advice &amp; Wealth Management on Slide 6.
We continue to deliver very strong results in Advice &amp; Wealth Management.
Pretax operating earnings grew 36% and was supported by revenue growth and effective expense management.
We have also seen significant margin expansion which reached 14.4% in the quarter despite a 100-basis-point headwind driven by the 20-basis-point interest spread impact on our brokerage sweep balances.
There is substantial upside when short-term rates move higher.
As a point of reference 100-basis-point increase in short-term rates would increase annual earnings by about $150 million and add approximately 300 basis points to margins assuming that cash balance remain at the same level.
Turning to Asset Management on Slide 7.
Revenues increased 11% primarily from market appreciation offset by the cumulative impact of outflows.
Our total expenses were up with the markets.
We managed G&amp;A expenses effectively and it was up only 3% from last year.
In the quarter earnings increased 38% to $194 million and adjusted operating margin improved to 40.2% from 33.6% a year ago reflecting favorable leverage to rising markets and tight expense management.
Let's turn to flows in more detail on Slide 8.
In the quarter we had a total of $5.5 billion of net inflows including $6.6 billion of reinvested dividends.
This quarter was about $3 billion higher than the same quarter last year because of an increase in the level of realized gains in the equity funds.
We had a total of $3.2 billion of outflows in the former parent related and other areas we've previously discussed.
This is in line with our expectation and consists of the following: we had outflows approximately $1.3 billion across retail and institutional associated with 1 large former parent affiliated distribution partner.
As we said outflows will continue as our share net distribution channel normalizes.
At Columbia retail we had $300 million of outflows at a sub-advisor and $600 million of outflows in the RIA channel.
In the Institutional business we had $1 billion of outflows related to former parent influenced mandates at Columbia.
We have areas of real improvement in strength.
We had net inflows from the Institutional channel where we are seeing strong growth in third-party mandates.
And finally at Threadneedle we had another strong quarter with $1.3 billion of retail net inflows.
Turning to Annuities on Slide 9.
Pretax operating earnings were $187 million.
Variable annuity pretax earnings grew 21% from a year ago primarily from equity market appreciation and business growth.
Our variable annuity business continues to have a high-quality inflows block with good growth and attractive new business.
In fact the risk profile at the block has benefited from the addition of new fund offerings to our in-force policyholders we announced last quarter.
These changes have been very well received by advisors and clients.
In fact clients transferred $900 million of assets that were not impacted by fee changes.
This resulted in about $26 million benefits to earnings in the quarter related to lower reserves.
The managed volatility products require low reserve than the legacy products as the hedging is embedded in the volatility control funds.
In fixed annuities pretax operating earnings were $31 million.
Results in the quarter include about $12 million of lower earnings from spread compression.
As interest rates increase we will likely see account value shrink from increased lapses but the net result will still be positive.
Moving to Protection on Slide 10.
Pretax operating earnings were $82 million.
Underlying Life and Health business remains solid.
We had good sales of variable universal life and index universal life.
Claims experience was good and within our expectations but at a higher level than last year.
Auto and Home has continued new policy sales growth across market segments from affinity partnerships.
Earnings in the quarter reflected $20 million increase in reserves primarily from auto liability claims development.
Let's turn to capital on Slide 11.
We returned $475 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase in the quarter and for the full year we returned $1.9 billion.
As you can see we have been able to consistently return more than 100% of earnings to shareholders due to our business mix shift risk management capabilities and strong balance sheet fundamentals.
We ended the quarter with continued strong balance sheet fundamentals nearly $2 billion of excess capital and an RBC ratio of approximately 450%.
This does not include the $500 million of additional capital above required levels for variable annuity products.
In 2014 our baseline plan is to return 90% to 100% of operating earnings to shareholders and we expect that our approach to returning capital to shareholders will continue to make Ameriprise unique.
With that we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Question on Asset Management to start.
There's a comment in the presentation that indicates that you're increasing your penetration in intermediary platform.
I am just wondering if you could provide some more color in terms of what exactly is going on maybe some metrics that we could you use to track this because it's just hard to see progress when we just look at the assets going forward.
Yes.
It's -- as we mentioned to you last year what we've been doing is stepping up our efforts of getting our product suite into some of the larger platforms out in the industry for the intermediary distribution.
Some of the larger wire houses and third-party channels.
And so we're seeing -- winning some of the mandates now to get onto their platforms and their model portfolios.
That would help us start to actually increase our wholesaling activities in support of that.
It does take time but we're beginning to get considered now for some of the fund groups that we have particularly in the large-cap areas that are starting to complement our wholesaling activities.
So once you get onto the model portfolios given in some of the larger houses that can help you step up your third party sales activities.
And so we're seeing more of that activity occurring.
We are being considered in getting in there and we've stepped up our efforts in that regard.
So it's sort of a sort of preview for the idea that we think that we can get increased sales going there.
And we saw a rise in sales last year across these channels I think in the fourth quarter it was actually pretty good until December and December weakened a bit and I think the industry saw some of that as well.
Research Division</strong> So would you say the improvement in sales from these initiative should be more of a 2015 story as opposed to 2014 story? Yes I think it will take time to continue to develop but we would hope to see some improvements through '14 and stronger activities into '15.
But again we're working hard at that.
We're stepping up some of our marketing due diligence activities this year in these channels becoming some preferred providers in the channel.
So we hope that that will ramp up over the course of the year because we believe we have some good products that would make sense against some of the competitors out there.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just shifting to AWM I guess Jim in your prepared comments you talked about some increases in advertising spending I guess in the couple -- in the coming months.
You clearly -- 1 of the stories of success there has been that the G&amp;A has been held kind of flattish so I guess I'm just wondering given these initiatives should we start to think about G&amp;A picking up as we move through 2014 on these higher expenses related to advertising and the like.
No.
I think we're considering -- we're continuing to manage the expense base quite well.
I think what we've alluded to more is that similar to what we did last year we're launching a new campaign this year really talking about our confident retirement approach.
We probably are putting a little more of that activity that would be web-based in complement to our top line advertising.
But the amounts will be relatively consistent with last year.
We just heavy up a little bit more in the first 4 months of the year because that's the prime time for us to advertise.
And then it starts to go low again and then it picks up again in the fourth quarter.
But it should be similar trend lines to what you saw in 2013.
We're probably just making a more of a statement around how we're going to be focusing our efforts that we think will help our approach out in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just the last 1 on the advisor count.
Again you added some experienced advisors I think in the quarter.
The retention seems to be pretty good in both franchisee and employee channel.
But if I look at the overall advisor count it's down a little bit maybe call it flattish.
So I guess I'm wondering at what point especially with retention improving should we start to see the advisor count actually start to increase? Yes.
So part of the reduction you see in the total particularly in the employee area was mainly due to -- we have a -- we call it our remote center our AAC which handles some of our client activities in centralized sites and we made a restructuring of those areas.
So that we can move to a bit more -- a different type of model that we think will even be more effective and in so doing it we reduced about 100 people in that channel.
And so the activity per employee there was very low.
They're not season producers and that's really the reason for the reduction.
But if you look at the productivity that we brought in and the people that we're maintaining with the retention the productivity of the channel has increased nicely and as I mentioned to you we brought that channel now into profitability.
We're still in the low single digits in margin and that should rise now beginning this year and continue to ramp up over time as the producers we brought on board become more productive.
So the headcount that you're looking at was mainly driven by that adjustment which is really in sort of a remote channel that handled some of our client activities that have moved from our advisor base out in the field to centralized.
The next question comes from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First I was hoping you could comment on the retail activity in January and just kind of the near-term hiccup we had with U.S.
Macro Data and all the turmoil in EM.
Are you guys seeing any difference in terms of the re-engagement levels which it sounded like it was picking up throughout the course of 2013 and started off pretty well in -- early in '14 but just to want to make sure if that sort has continued so far.
Yes.
I -- we don't see any material change.
I mean again it depends on what occurs over the next number of months and what the effect is -- how material.
But we see a continuation of a good level of activity.
It's hard to judge week to week right now just based on the nature of it.
But we haven't seen any material shift.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then a couple specifics I guess on the AWM segment.
In the press release and in your comments as well you suggested that the pipeline of FAs continues to be pretty robust.
Can you help us kind of with the sources of pipeline and the wire houses other independent shops et cetera and then more importantly if you look at the productivity are we looking at 500 per FA 600 per FA on an annual basis kind of help us kind of size I guess how that compares relative to you guys currently have on the books? Okay so I would say our pipeline as we enter the new year looks really good for us as a continuation as we sort of ended the third and fourth quarter.
So we see that continuing.
We're really recruiting from a number of different sources so it does include the combination of the wire houses but also some independents.
And we're seeing good people come on board.
The productivity we're averaging is now pretty consistent with our total of what you've seen that we've reported which is in the mid-400 to 500 ranges.
And so it's a consistent type of per person that we see into the level of productivity that we have here.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Shifting gears a bit I want to touch on the Asset Management business and then specifically the U.S.
team at Threadneedle.
Can you guys help us size I guess the overall assets that the team collectively has managed I know you said the new PM there or the PM that is staying managed 1/3 of it but can you give us a sense of the total and then maybe split between retail and institutional? Yes.
We roughly have for that total about $15 billion and about 5 to 6s in the institutional line is in retail.
The person that we have was actually a long-time PM that used to be at Columbia and actually had excellent performance in the mid and large cap value area.
She actually had relocated over to London a number of years ago for relocation family reasons and she now -- she was part of that team for the last 4 years.
She has excellent performance records.
In fact better than the team that left part of the team that left.
And she will be assuming full responsibility for the area.
She will also be able to even more formally writeoff of a research we have in the U.S.
since she is very familiar with it and we have great research capabilities that can really enhance the U.S.
stock picking at Threadneedle.
And so that the -- our investment offices there are quite excited about that opportunity.
So listen we're going through a change there but we believe that we'll put in good resources and can continue to manage good money there.
There may be some dislocation in the short term as always occurs but it's fortunate that we have a strong person there that can lead that team and shown from her past success.
Research Division</strong> I understood makes sense and then just the last one for me.
Walter you highlight a number of buckets in Asset Management that there's still legacy parent-related stuff.
And so can you just give us an update again on -- as we think about 2014 kind of look on a quarterly run-rate basis how much in total assets you guys still expect to see as kind of like gross outflow from these buckets just to kind of help us size the gap that you need to overcome to turn into positive flow mode? Sure listen we certainly still as we talked about it have remaining assets at Balboa which is about $0.5 billion and then certainly in BAC pensions which is still lower of $2 billion.
So again I can't give it to you on a quarter basis but we are certainly managing through that within the ranges.
Zurich will continue at its levels that we've seen.
But certainly we do see that several billion will be coming in as Jim has mentioned and that is -- but again we feel we're making progress but it’s in that sort of level.
I can't give you the quarterly on it.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Within Asset Management can you just talk a little bit about where you see margins going from here and do you think 40% plus is sustainable? And I guess as further improvement contingent on either AUM leverage from the market or improved flows.
Are there other steps you can continue to take to improve margins? Yes clearly from our standpoint on managing the expenses and certainly with the market and with looking at the asset levels we just mentioned with -- I would do believe in that range is sustainable and certainly looking as Jim said before to even try and improve it.
So I think it's a reasonable level to be at certainly in this high 30s 40% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just for Columbia Institutional obviously is a good quarter for flows here and it looks like you've seen a nice pickup in terms of sales over the past year.
Do you believe that this business is now at a point that it should be able to generate consistent positive inflows and maybe if you could talk just a little bit more about what is driving the pickup in sales? Well I would say we're seeing good traction in a number of areas.
Like we've said in the institutional we've got good traction in Europe.
I think we're going to start to actually garner some greater flows from some global activities that we have started to work on and some of the products that we're putting into the market over time.
And the U.S.
activity we see sales increasing and what we have to do is manage over some of the combination of the ex-parent books of business that we had as well as just some of the spottiness from some of the things that we're continuing to be in redemption mode.
So I don't want to sit and predict that we're going to be in net inflows as we go forward but I would say that we're gaining traction.
I do believe that it's going to be a bit lumpy.
But I feel that we have some good product that we are stepping up levels of activity in certain areas.
But I think as you just asked regarding the margins et cetera we feel like we have a good profitable business that we're able to make good investments.
But it's -- this is a very competitive field and it's blocking and tackling everyday and that's what we need to do this year.
We have no further questions at this time.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Please go ahead.
A couple on Advice and Wealth to start first I guess the margin as you discussed was 15.8% in the quarter and I think the commentary suggested that the expenses in the quarter were a little light.
So I guess I’m just wondering how do you see that margin progressing over the course of 2014 particularly as expenses start to ramp up? Okay if you look at the year for 2013 it was 13.8% we ended at 14.2%.
Looking at it and looking at the revenue growth we see and trying to manage our expenses basically flat or little above that.
Probably I would say somewhere around 150 to 200 basis points above that should be a reasonable target range for the average for the year.
So 150 to 200 over the 13.8%?  Yes that’s correct.
Got it.
And I guess on the employee advisor count I think we talked about this last quarter but you lost another 50 I guess sequentially.
I know there was some nuances last quarter that caused the advisor count not to grow.
But I am just wondering at what point will we start to see the employee advisor count actually start to grow because my sense is that’s a decent driver of the margin upside in that channel.
Yes and again as Jim has said the issue -- the number’s important no matter -- but it's actually the quality of the advisor we’re bringing which from a trailing 12 and the AUM we’re bringing on is substantially higher than we have seen in 2013.
So Jim has indicated that we certainly at one point will start to grow the number but really the most important thing to concentrate on is the quality and the activity levels in AUM they are bringing which is really leverages the profitability of the AUM activity.
Again we’re looking at and we’re dealing with trying to drive profitable growth and so on that basis that will be the focus and certainly I agree if you -- more you bring on but again profitable advisors is the key here.
Are you still running sort of in the 60% to 70% utilization of capacity in that channel? We’re actually approaching over 70% right now.
Last one is just on Columbia retail flows.
I just want to go back to your prepared remarks.
It seemed like your comment suggested that things are taking a little bit of time in terms of getting on these third-party platforms.
I just want to understand are your comments consistent with what you've said in the past or are you sort of suggesting to us that perhaps things are taking even a little bit longer than you had thought previously? I think it's taking a little long.
I think we’re making good progress but it is taking a little longer from that standpoint and certainly we seeing sales that are good and redemptions are slowing.
So we feel good about it but it is certainly taking a little longer than we indicated.
This is Steve Fullerton filling in for Bill.
Just touching on Advice and Wealth again and the margin some of your competitors have talked to increase competition for advisors.
To what extent are you guys seeing maybe a tick up in Q1 in competition and how that might affect the margin going forward? Yes we’re seeing some tick up again we’re staying within the target zones that we talked about on the pay backs from a P&amp;L standpoint under three years.
Probably the biggest thing that is causing more I would say resistance from moving over is the market.
When you get markets that are this strong it does create complacency but we’re still able to attract the type of advisors that we want -- which will drive profitable growth and it certainly is a bit more challenging but the team is doing an excellent job.
And then just the Threadneedle the $5.5 billion win that you guys had.
What are kind of the main drivers there? And behind that how does the pipeline look for these type of wins? And just digging in specifics what drove the win on that mandate?  Again the mandate was based upon our capability and certainly demonstrating not just of the performance of the PM but the total capability of Threadneedle.
Once they decided to leave their prior investment house we basically went into a bidding with them and certainly they demonstrated the capabilities that we had and they felt comfortable.
As far as pipeline I can say as we talked about in the announcement the U.S.
equity was down 2.1 billion but if you back away from that it was very very strong growth both in retail and instructional.
So it was a very good pipeline there and so we are feeling quite good about that and certainly we are quite I guess favorably taking with the -- awarding of the 5.5 billion from St.
James it was certainly a good recognition of our capability.
I guess in the past you've talked to -- with the advice margins about the opportunity to significantly improve the margin from the employee advisors.
Hopefully you can comment on whether some of the improvement that we saw this quarter was kind of driven by that channel with that -- how important was that as a driver for the improvement we saw? Nigel I’m having a little trouble because you’re breaking up.
Could you repeat the question? I just don’t want to not answer it appropriately.
Sure absolutely.
So the employee advisors you talked about them having margins in the low single digits before.
Did we see -- was an improvement in the margins from the employee advisors one of the drivers that we saw improving the overall advice margins this quarter? Yes.
Generally what is happening as we talked about we’re clearly seeing an improvement and as Jim has said it has moved from actually a loss situation into a positive.
It's margins are in the 4 to 5 range and what you’re having is again advisors being attracted in.
They are vintaging out and they are also making a greater contribution to the fixed base.
So we certainly think it's on the right trajectory to sort of yield the target of profitabilities that we see but that has certainly occurred in the first quarter.
And just one in property and casualty I guess another charge this quarter raises the question over whether those operations are really strategically important for Ameriprise? Do the charges that we saw lead Management to reassess the strategic importance of those operations to the company looking forward? The charge we took in the quarter yes back in the fourth quarter we took a charge of $20 million relating to bodily injury and uninsured motorists and what that related to was the 2011 2012 primarily and what was happening we are seeing more legal claims moving into legal status from that [ph] which elongates them and certainly takes on a different reserving profile.
We saw that continue to deteriorate after extensive review in the first quarter and that’s why we decided to take the reserves up.
But we also took a look at 2013 while certainly it's a travel with that but certainly the initial indication is that some of the actions that we took plays in 2012 and 2011 as it relates both the pricing risk changes that we made and also looking at it from a credit linking to pricing and then focusing more eliminating or slowing down on the non-client is really starting to pay dividends it's little early victory but certainly we’re seeing concrete evidence of improvement.
The business is an excellent business it really does their service levels their capabilities and meeting their affinity group.
It is a real asset to the firm and yes we’re dealing with this and looking at it and we feel that we’re making the changes and it's a valuable portion of the form while it's not core.
It certainly adds a good diversifier and it's an important element.
So again no guarantees but we certainly feel -- we’re dealing with it and they have good growth and a matter of fact they just added another line of business in the travel accident which again will add another dimension to their capability.
So we think again working with them to look at an improved the value proposition as we move forward.
A couple questions.
I guess starting with AWM or I guess continuing with AWM.
It sounded like there's been a slightly elevated sale of non-traded REIT products in the quarter.
We've seen a similar dynamic from some of the competitors.
I was wondering if you guys could size how much that has contributed to revenues this quarter kind of over and above the more normal run rate.
And then I was hoping you can just give us an update on generally how things have progressed into April given the fact that market obviously got a little bumpier so I was just kind of curious how the retail engagement overall has fared in the month of April.
Again it's not certainly the activity contributes to it but I will say we also saw a slowdown in annuity sales which negated it to a degree but it's not really material.
The real as I mentioned was the impact of the expense and again the timing of the expense.
So we get the certainly the syndicates and REITs are coming through at different times we don’t know.
But it was not a major-major element we certainly had great performance in the quarter without that.
I have not seen looking at the information and I’ve seen that I believe our productivity and performance characteristics and the growth in our assets and wrap assets are continuing.
So again there was a little -- if you get into I don’t want to make excuses there is a little weather activity going on the first as you saw in our auto and home which certainly didn’t help the situation but I think we’re tracking.
So staying on the topic you guys highlighted 76 financial advisors that came over in the first quarter in the kind of more experienced bucket.
Can you give us a sense of the productivity for those advisors relative to 450 000 to 460 000 run rate that you guys are seeing in the rest of the book? I don’t have the exact number.
I will get that back to you but it's certainly my recollection it was certainly it was above that but let me get back to you on that.
But overall the experienced bucket is continuing to kind come in above the run rate of what's in the book overall.
Absolutely.
The quality of what we’re bringing on again is certainly at a higher level both from a production and from assets under management.
And then last one for me just shifting to I guess the asset management for a second again.
Threadneedle so obviously a challenging area with the U.S.
product and then obviously a nice win from a big competitor in the UK.
Can you help us understand I guess what else is at risk from the U.S.
product? I know you said a couple billion dollars left this quarter but my understanding is there is still a decent amount of assets left.
How do you guys plan on keeping these assets intact? And then the flip side the $5.5 billion win that you had can you give us a fee rate on that? Okay.
So let me deal with the first one.
As we said we do anticipate there will be additional outflows the Threadneedle team has done a superb job both from the team that we have in place with Diane.
She has been there she is excellent.
We have supplemented it with people from the U.S.
also and the full team and they are out of Threadneedle and performance has been very very good and in addition to us PM performance the entire support of the firm and both from distribution seeing every client discussing it.
So we do feel there will be some.
It will come through in different times but certainly we do not believe that anywhere near the full amount is that risk and this is actually pretty close to where we thought it would be.
We will see -- the second quarter it will certainly diminish from that and we will work our way through -- and the team is working very very hard and the performance has been very good.
As far as the fees we really don’t disclose that but I can’t say it's less than the U.S.
equity one all right to put in proportion all right? I just wanted to follow-up on the employee advisor margin.
I guess the 4% to 5% range that you're talking about for I believe it was the first quarter where do you think that can get to overtime as these advisors continue to ramp up without the benefit of short-term rates? If we just leave rates where they are where can that 4% to 5% get to over the next couple of years? Double and triple.
Double and triple over the next couple years without short term rates? Right.
Thank you everybody.
I just look forward to seeing you at the FCM and again thanks.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Ameriprise Financial Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
My name is Ellen and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Alicia Charity.
Ms.
Charity you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial's Second Quarter Earnings Call.
On the call today with me are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we'll be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the company's operations.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today's materials available on our website.
Some statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management's expectations about the future and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today's date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today's earnings release our 2013 annual report to shareholders and our 2013 10-K report.
We take no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim.
Good morning and thank you for joining our second quarter earnings call.
I'll start with my perspective on the quarter and how I'm feeling about the business.
Walter will cover the numbers in more detail and then we'll answer your questions.
As you saw in our release it was another strong quarter for Ameriprise marking a very good first half of the year.
We had meaningful operating net revenue growth up 8% to $2.9 billion.
Operating earnings were also strong at $408 million with operating earnings per diluted share up 31% to $2.08 excluding the Cofunds gain from a year ago.
Assets under management and administration reached an all-time high increasing 15% to $810 billion reflecting strong advisor client flows and positive markets.
We're executing our strategy well and I'm pleased with how Ameriprise is performing.
Maintaining an excellent financial foundation is core to how we operate the company.
Our capital and financial position is very strong and we continue to generate significant free cash flows to return to shareholders.
During the quarter we returned $464 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
And year-to-date as of June 30 we returned $921 million to shareholders in excess of our total earnings.
With our strong earnings and capital return we delivered record operating return on equity excluding AOCI of 21.7% up 380 basis points from a year ago.
Let's get into the business beginning with Advice &amp; Wealth Management where we're achieving excellent results.
Operating net revenues were up 11% to $1.2 billion.
A strong fee-based growth continues to offset the weight of low interest rates.
I'm very pleased with the revenue growth we're delivering.
Clients are engaged and active.
Total client assets increased 16% to $435 billion and we continue to have meaningful flows in our investment advisory programs.
Our advisor productivity continues to grow nicely increasing 14% to $468 000 on a trailing 12-month basis.
Pretax operating earnings were up 29% to $194 million and pretax operating margin increased significantly to 16.2%.
We're focusing on taking advisor productivity even higher as advisors utilize the resources and capabilities that we invest in for them.
Our priority is to bring in new clients and assets to Ameriprise and to deepen relationships with our current clients.
Our "Real Questions Real Answers" advertising campaign continues to resonate well with our clients and consumers and brand awareness is at record levels.
Our Confident Retirement approach which we feature in the campaign is beginning to take hold.
We're seeing a terrific initial response both from clients who have experienced it as well as its effect on advisor practices.
Client satisfaction to [ph] our approach is in the mid to upper 90s and our advisors who have incorporated it into their practices are more productive.
Importantly our advisor force remains strong and they're feeling good about the company.
Retention and satisfaction rates remain very high.
We continue to recruit good productive advisors and brought in another 54 in the quarter.
This is down a bit from where we started the year but it's consistent with the overall slowdown in recruiting that the industry is experiencing.
That said the productivity of advisors we're bringing in is very good and growing.
For the second half of the year our recruiting pipeline looks good and is building.
We're also supporting our advisors to benefit from the investments we've made especially in our brokerage platform online and mobile capabilities.
Advisors who are taking advantage of our technology platform find that it helps them save time increase efficiency and productivity.
At the company level we're starting to realize operating cost efficiencies from our technology.
It's more than just tools it's about the overall client experience.
Temkin Trust Ratings indicate that in 2014 Ameriprise has the second-highest trust rating as well as the highest forgiveness in the investment firm industry.
Also during the quarter DALBAR recognized Ameriprise as a social media "All-Star " giving us a 5-star rating in social engagement in their rankings of financial services firms.
Our advisors are feeling good about the value proposition and growth opportunity they have here.
I've just returned from a national conference with our top 1 500 advisors.
I've heard from many of them about how energized they are about Ameriprise.
The marketing technology and leadership we're providing and importantly their ability to grow even further.
Overall it was another excellent quarter for Advice &amp; Wealth Management.
We're delivering nice growth and profitability across the business.
The business is consistently generating the results we expected and that we told you we could achieve.
Our focus is to continue to execute well and maintain our momentum.
Now let me turn to Asset Management where we're delivering competitive financial results and gaining some traction.
Our assets under management grew to $518 billion up 13% from a year ago mainly driven by positive equity markets in the U.S.
and Europe.
The combination of solid revenue growth and good expense management drove operating earnings up 21% to $199 million when adjusting for the prior year gain.
We're delivering competitive investment performance with the exception of a few areas which we are addressing.
With regard to flows we generated net inflows of $4.4 billion in the quarter compared to $2.1 billion of outflows last year.
Walter will take you through the details but at a high level we continue to experience strong net inflows in the U.K.
and Europe which have offset outflows from a manager change last quarter.
Domestically we're working to expand our presence on key platforms and other distribution channels.
While we remain in net outflows we're seeing some improvement most notably in our former parent affiliated channel and we're addressing challenges in DCIO.
And in institutional the pipeline looks good and continues to build.
The same change place mandate funded in the quarter and we're making very good progress in the traditional third-party business with a number of wins in the quarter that reflect a healthy pipeline.
In addition we're making good progress in a number of other areas including in investment solutions as well as global products.
We're adding to our product capabilities.
A great example is the Columbia adoptive risk allocation product that recently launched managed by Jeff Knight and the team.
We have a similar product for retail clients.
In addition Columbia flexible capital income fund just reached its 3-year anniversary and Threadneedle launched a global corporate bond fund that benefits from the fixed income capabilities of both Threadneedle and Columbia.
We're also adding talent.
We recently hired industry veteran Bill Landis to lead the strategic plan for Columbia's multi-asset solution business.
We'll soon be announcing a new head of our U.S.
intermediary organization.
These are 2 important growth opportunities for us and I feel good about the team we're putting in place.
As I've discussed there's more work to do but we're moving in a positive direction.
Let's move to Annuities and Protection key businesses and central to our Confident Retirement approach.
Our Annuity business is well positioned and we're generating good returns with lower risk and volatility.
We built a differentiated business that we're growing at the moderate pace we want.
In variable annuities client account balances grew 10% due to market appreciation.
We have $1.2 billion in new sales in our channel.
And as we noted about a quarter of those sales were without living benefits.
In addition clients and advisors continue to move assets to our portfolio stabilizer funds which enhances our clients as well as our overall risk profile.
We're making enhancements to our VAs without living benefits.
We're adding 4 new investment options at the end of the quarter and helping advisors and clients understand the benefits these income solutions can provides through our Confident Retirement approach.
We're also developing additional services to support income management that we plan to release later this year.
In fixed annuities while earnings are down results are in line with what we expected.
As we stated our focus remains on the overall profitability of the book.
As these products come out of rate guarantee periods we're able to reprice to mitigate the rate impact.
In Protection our financial results in the quarter were flat to last year.
Let's start with life insurance where earnings were up and continue to reflect good claims experience.
Variable universal life sales picked up year-over-year and VUL/UL ending account balances were up 10%.
In Auto &amp; Home premiums are up nicely and we had good policy growth up 12% from a year ago.
We're working to deepen our relationships with our affiliate partners and our own advisors are seeing nice progress.
Auto &amp; Home is rated one of the best firms for client satisfaction and retention also remains very high.
As I've mentioned Auto &amp; Home earnings suffered because of weather-related losses in the quarter consistent with others in the industry.
Overall Ameriprise had a strong second quarter and a very good first half of the year.
We're executing our strategy well and realizing the benefits as we continue to invest for further growth.
Overall revenues are growing nicely and we're delivering excellent operating return on equity excluding AOCI that is now almost 22%.
Our strong business results and ability to generate significant free cash flow provide us the ability to continue to return to shareholders as we have in the past and we have maintained the capability to do that through our newly increased buyback authorization.
With that I'd like to hand things over to Walter.
Thank you Jim.
Ameriprise delivered another quarter of excellent financial results.
Let's start with operating net revenue growth on Page 3.
In total operating net revenues grew 8% excluding the gain on the sale of Cofunds last year driven by strong operating fundamentals.
This was led by particularly robust growth in Advice &amp; Wealth Management.
Revenue growth combined with continued expense discipline resulted in a record 16.2% margin in AWM and a 38.7% margin in Asset Management.
Together Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management operating earnings grew 25% excluding the gain on Cofunds and account for over 60% of the earnings demonstrating our continued business mix shift.
Turning to Slide 4.
Operating return on equity reached another all-time high of 21.7% up nearly 400 basis points and solidly within our targeted range of 19% to 23%.
Operating earnings per share also reached a new record level of $2.08 up 31% excluding the gain of the sale of Cofunds a credit to solid business growth and continued strong capital management.
Moving to Slide 5.
We continue to deliver excellent business metrics and financial results in Advice &amp; Wealth Management with 11% top line growth.
Pretax operating earnings were up 29% to $194 million due to improved advisor productivity and continued strong asset growth.
As we have discussed previously we are seeing continued improvement in the earnings and margins in both the employee and franchise channels.
In total margins reached a new record high of 16.2% up 230 basis points.
These results were achieved with no benefit from interest rates on over $22 billion we have in short-term funds.
Spread earned on the $18.5 billion of brokerage cash was just 17 basis points this quarter.
So there remains a substantial upside potential from an increase in short-term rates going forward.
Overall it was another excellent quarter for AWM.
And the business continues to deliver consistently good results demonstrating the strength of our business model.
Turning to Asset Management on Slide 6.
Revenues increased to $844 million primarily from growth in assets under management from strong markets.
We've continued to manage expense tightly with G&amp;A up only 1%.
This resulted in an underlying earnings growth of 21% and margins of 38.7%.
Assets under management increased 13% from market appreciation and net flows which I will cover in more detail on the next slide.
In the quarter we had a total of $4.4 billion of net inflows with inflows in retail institutional and alternative assets.
We had a total net inflow of $600 million in retail.
At Columbia we had $700 million of retail inflows including $3.5 billion of reinvested dividends.
We had outflows in several areas we have discussed in the past namely former parent affiliated distribution the RIA channel and a sub advisor.
In addition we continue to face some challenges in the retail intermediate channel at Columbia particularly in the DCIO channel.
At Threadneedle retail flows were breakeven with strong underlying inflows offset by outflows in the U.S.
equity product where we had a portfolio manager change earlier this year.
Performance has been solid under Diane Sobin's leadership and we had added a few resources to round out the U.S.
equity team.
Institutional net inflows of $3.5 billion were driven by the funding of St.
James Place mandate and third-party institutional flows at Columbia.
Partially offsetting this were outflows from several former parent-related areas at both Columbia and Threadneedle as well as a onetime outflow from corporate Liverpool Victoria assets.
The third-party institutional pipeline looks quite solid as we look over the next few quarters.
Turning to annuities on Slide 8.
Pretax operating earnings were $170 million.
Variable annuity pretax operating earnings grew 79% from a year ago driven by the impact of clients moving to manage volatility funds as well as higher fees and mean reversion from improved equity markets.
We continue to see existing policyholders moving to manage volatility funds at a higher level than anticipated.
Since the inception in quarter 4 of 2013 over $5 billion of account value has moved to these funds.
The in-force book is solid with account values up 10% to $78 billion.
Our net amount at risk as a percent of account value is only 0.1% for both living benefits and death benefits.
Variable annuities remain an important solution for our clients.
We continue to write new business with very attractive risk profile offering products with living benefit guarantees using our managed volatility funds and products without living benefits that provide tax advantage accumulation for our clients.
In fixed annuities pretax operating earnings were $30 million down 6% from a year ago.
These results are in line with our expectations particularly given lower overall market sales and the repricing of a large block of policies.
Fixed annuity account values declined 7% to $12.6 billion primarily reflecting continued elevated lapse on products sold through third parties where rates had been reset.
This repricing initiative is largely complete and preceding in line with our expectations in terms of lapse and the favorable impact on spreads.
Moving to Protection on Slide 9.
Pretax operating earnings were flat at $91 million due to cat losses in Auto &amp; Home.
Our life and health businesses remain solid and earnings are in line with expectations.
Account balances grew for VUL and UL by 10% and life and health claims experience remains good.
Auto &amp; Home earnings were below expectations as a result of cat losses of $33 million.
While this is consistent with the industry cat losses were $12 million higher than anticipated.
Let's turn to capital in Slide 10.
Our balance sheet remains strong with over $2 billion of excess capital and our RBC ratio is approximately 530%.
We continue to return capital to shareholders with $464 million distributed through dividends and share repurchase in the quarter.
A significant return of capital is an important driver of our ROE expansion.
We reached a record 21.7% which is solidly in line with our targeted range of 19% to 23%.
With that we will take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First question on the flow dynamic.
Look I mean I guess we've seen the legacy related and the parent -- legacy parent-related sorry outflows for quite some time.
And in your prepared comments sounds like at Columbia in particular maybe they've gotten a little bit better but flows are still fairly I guess disappointing.
So it implies I guess the rest of the business may have gotten a little bit worse.
So can we just get I guess an update on what do you guys still think is at risk.
And help us parse out the outlook for flows from here.
On flows and looking at the quarter.
Obviously you saw that from our standpoint there was -- the activity levels slowed.
And basically that was -- we evaluated the situation that the rebalancing was slower and which resulted in lower gross sales.
And also it's basically the same with the redemptions and the sales of basically a complacence.
These people are pretty content where they are.
We've checked through and we've seen this trend with the industry in several of our peers.
So we do see that we are making progress and as we indicated the flows from the former parent and certainly related are within the ranges and actually performing.
So again we're on track.
It's again work to be done.
But it is -- I think we are making progress and still progress to be made.
Yes Alex I think we -- to Walter's point we saw a bit slowing in the sales.
Outside of the x parent -- I mean the Zurich we're always going to have that and we also will always have part of the outflows from the large base that we have for the affiliated.
That's more of a natural rebalancing that will continue to occur.
So we're not concerned about that.
In fact those look like they actually similar to what Walter said for the industry sort of slowed a little bit because the redemptions weren't as high and even though the sales were a bit lower.
I think the 2 things that probably affect us a little more in the second quarter was we continued to get the outflow from the U.S.
desk that we had in Threadneedle and that's in the retail side.
We had booked the same change as an institutional mandate.
And then in the U.S.
a bit more as Walter said in his comments and I said in the DCIO where there was a little bit more of an outflow that we experienced there in some of the Wanger product and in one of the funds.
And so I think adjusted for that we would have saw some improvement.
But we did see across the industry a bit of a slowing and we did have a bit of a slowing in sales in the second quarter in retail.
Research Division</strong> Yes -- no.
And I totally appreciate just the slow of flow dynamics in the industry as well this quarter.
But I guess if we were to think about the 3 buckets one being Columbia former parent-related AUM how much is there still that's sort of risk? And then the same comment I guess on Threadneedle from the U.S.
team that left.
How much AUM is there and how much is at risk? So this way we can kind of rank [ph] them.
What should be potential in your runoff versus the progress that you're making on the [indiscernible] Right.
So in the affiliated at Columbia there are I don't know a few billion dollars left.
Some Bank of America some Balboa et cetera.
And that will flow out a little over time.
We should see a bit of that come out in the fourth quarter.
But again we don't know exactly.
The Balboa as an example it's a little lumpy but that has come down a lot.
So that would be one area.
Then we have what would be ongoing distribution with Bank of America.
And just based on the natural evolution of those assets as they further diversify from some of our mandates whereas when the new sales go into a broader group of mandates we're going to continue to see some outflow there.
We mentioned over the course of the year $3 billion to $4 billion in total.
But again that actually got a bit better in the second quarter.
So -- but that will continue.
And then the Zurich we roughly tell you is going to be roughly about $4 billion a year U.S.
And that's just the natural flow.
Now having said that those assets have good retention of what's there with appreciation.
So it's not as though we're losing the fee but it will still go through the flow line item.
Now where do we see uptick? We see good uptick in our institutional mandates.
We have a good pipeline that's being built and some of that's starting to win -- we won and we'll fund.
So we feel good about that both domestically and internationally.
We still have good retail sales in the U.K.
and Europe and Threadneedle.
So that we feel good about.
We have more work to do in the U.S.
intermediary.
We're making some changes there both from a leadership perspective as well as from a product and marketing and various things of how we align that to get on various platforms and that we're putting a lot more focus and concentration on with a new leadership lineup there.
So we feel good about that.
And we also feel good about some of the new solutions business that we're putting some time and effort in that we think will pay some good dividends over time that would even build the institution and even in retail for some of the products that we'll come out with.
So the retail is still a bit more of a work in progress in the U.S.
It's actually built momentum in the U.K.
and Europe and institutional is moving along nicely.
Alex as I said in my prepared remarks the other [ph] thing as related to the U.S.
equities.
For TAM retail they actually were flat absorbing the $1.5 billion on U.S.
equity outflow.
So they're -- we're having strong inflow performance.
We can -- we've seen it slow obviously in the June time frame and Diane's performance has been quite good.
So we're gauging it right now.
But it's -- I think we have a little ways to go but we just don't have an exact number.
It's tracking I guess in the range where we thought at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's helpful.
Second question on the margins and I guess both AWM and the Asset Management business.
You guys continue to put up really strong results in AWM.
And I think this is the question that kind of comes up every call but you guys continue to kind of I guess surpass even the expectation of the layout [ph] for yourself.
But where do you guys see this margin shaking out I guess towards the end of year as some of these new FAs come in? Because it does sound like the cost control in G&amp;A front [ph] was pretty good.
Okay.
Obviously last quarter I was talking about being at 15.5% to 16%.
The market's really -- we have a solid base of assets and certainly strong flow performance.
So I would say again I hate estimating these things.
But certainly we -- this level seems comfortable.
Again subject to market changes everything of that nature.
I think what I would say Alex with that is you always get adjusted [ph] quarter-to-quarter or various things but our expense trends and what we're doing there is holding.
We are getting good leverage off of the investments we've made.
We're continuing to make good investment.
So I want to be very clear.
We're not doing that because we stopped investing.
We're still investing nicely in a number of new capabilities and products and services that we've just -- including just what we launched last quarter and what we're putting behind [ph].
So we're making good investments but we're managing our expenses well.
We're getting leverage of the investments that we mentioned to you previously that we invested in in technology.
That's also deriving some savings for us as we lower call [ph] volume and other activities transaction manual efforts that we used to do.
Our advisors are seeing productivity lifts from taking up these things including our Confident Retirement approach and our focus in the market.
So I think a combination of factors.
We feel good about the margins.
So we're going to continue to want to grow our productivity which hopefully will add to margins as we go on.
And as you still know I mean we're probably at an all-time low in interest rate effect just because old contracts have rolled off and we're probably at a very low level now.
So any pickup there will be a benefit over time.
So no we feel very good about the progress we're making.
We're going to continue to look to make progress.
So I'm not saying we'll stop here.
And the other side of it is our focus has been on driving our asset levels and our productivity which will then as we maintain and leverage the expenses in the investments we've made will build the margin.
The next question is from Seth Tennant with Citi.
Yes can you discuss your current interest in M&amp;A and the type of properties you would be most interested in? Would you be looking at another large asset manager or more focused on filling specific product gaps? As we continue -- we're investing in new product and capability and building out some of our solutions area right now with the talent that we've been adding and some of the global product that we're putting out between Columbia and Threadneedle.
So we're going to continue to push forward there.
We also launched a new fund in Asia and we have now 3 or 4 up.
So we're going to continue to do that.
We will continue to look for -- in product areas and certain disciplines that we don't necessarily have here at Columbia.
So we'll look around in some of those areas but they wouldn't be major acquisitions.
In regard to anything larger it really would depend on whether it would add some larger capability to us or distribution that would make sense strategically.
But as we continue to operate we'll probably put a bit more in the first one I mentioned which is more of product areas that would continue to build against our portfolio capabilities.
Again we don't rule out something wonderful that pops up.
But having said that we don't necessarily count on those things happening.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I don't want to take anything away from the strong AWM margins or the good flows in Asset Management but I wanted hit on Protection in 2 places.
First on long-term care another insurance company just reported a pretty weak result in long-term care and I believe you've reinsured some of your business with that carrier.
So I just want to get a sense of what your block looks like how you're feeling about that block.
And do you have any comments on how much of that business has lifetime benefits and when it was originally written? Sure.
Again looking at our block as we've been talking about we have started program of appropriately raising rates for a while now.
And our claims performance been within our target ranges.
So again we've been dealing with that and it's small relatively small to our situation.
So these policies of -- I believe we're in the late '90s.
Most of them -- I believe most of them were done back then.
I don't recall the percentage on the lifetime side of it.
But we've been certainly monitoring looking and taking [indiscernible].
So we are feeling that number one as I said it's small relative to -- as we talked about before and that we -- it's been performing again within ranges and again within the levels that we anticipated.
So we don't see a concern at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then I wanted to shift over to the Auto &amp; Home business because that's a business that I think it's fair to say has been underperforming for several quarters now.
And I know Jim in the past you talked about your commitment to the business and all of that.
But I'm just wondering if you've given anymore thought as to whether or not you need to manufacture that product or whether you can outsource manufacturing to some other P&amp;C companies and allow your advisors just to sell their products.
Yes.
We don't own the P&amp;C business because of the sales per se to our advisor channel.
It's one of the affinity channels that the product is sold to.
So it's not necessarily I would say core against our franchise channel.
We have and are continuing to focus on that business.
We have been underperforming for the last few quarters.
This last quarter the underperformance really came from the cat losses.
It was solely driven by that as you saw experienced in the industry and it's a nature [ph] part of that business.
From that perspective we feel like we can continue to get appropriate rate there.
We know that there are things that we can continue to do that we're very much focused on that would enhance our various pricing and various underwriting and risk in certain areas that cause some of the underperformance in certain states based on changes that have occurred out there both in the legal environment as well as with various other competitors.
So we actually feel like there's a lot that we can do to get that business back to a more higher performing in its results -- bottom line results.
We also know after further study externally by external sources that this is actually one of the better businesses out there and the type of model that we have and the cost structure of the business and how we operate it.
So if we can fix a few of the things that we know we can fix which we will be working on we could have a very high-performing business.
Now that doesn't answer your question necessarily of whether it's a business that is long-term integrated in core.
We like it because of its level of diversification.
We like it that we're building appropriate scale in it.
And if we can operate it to generate the type of dynamics it will give us a lot of choice of what we do with it.
So it is a little bit more of a work that we have underway but we already start to see signs that that will come to fruition.
And at the same time we're growing the business nicely and diversifying it.
And so we're very happy with the business.
I know it hasn't been reflected because of whether it's cat losses and storms or some of the extra reserves that we took recently.
But we feel that that reserving situation is behind us.
And now we'll be focused on really dealing more with the external environment a little as the industry is.
But I think we'll start to see better bottom line returns coming over the next number of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just one quick one for Walter on the variable annuities.
How much more of your VA book could move potentially to these volatility managed funds? Because it seems like every time that happens you get an earnings benefit.
So I'm just wondering how much more could be in front of us here.
Well actually we've seen -- we've -- so far $5 billion has moved.
We are seeing it slowing again and within anticipated levels.
So it will be slowing as we head through the cycle.
But there's a continuous element to it.
We think it's actually a very good thing because it's good for the customers and it's good for our risk profiling.
And so it works for both of us.
So it is definitely slowing and we're seeing it from that standpoint.
So it will be coming through but I think it will be certainly at a lower level.
We have no further questions at this time.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
My name is Lauren and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Alicia Charity.
Ms.
Charity you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial’s third quarter earnings call.
On the call with me today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we’ll be pleased to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the company’s operations.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today’s materials available on our website.
Some statements that we make on the call may be forward-looking reflecting management’s expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today’s date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today’s earnings release our 2013 annual report to shareholders and our 2013 10-K report.
We take no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
With that I’ll turn it over to Jim.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining our third quarter earnings call.
I’ll start with my thoughts on the business Walter will review the numbers in detail and then we’ll be happy to take your questions.
It was another strong quarter for Ameriprise continuing the trend we set in the first half of the year.
Our operating results were very strong with net revenue growth at 8% excluding unlocking.
Operating earnings and EPS growth were each over 20%.
Assets under management and administration increased 8% $797 billion reflecting strong advisory client flows as well as market appreciation.
Our capital and financial position is excellent and we continue to generate significant free cash flow to return to shareholders.
During the quarter we returned $442 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Year-to-date through to the quarter end we have returned $1.4 billion to shareholders which is 112% of year-to-date operating earnings.
We’re on our way to four consecutive years of returning over 100% of our operating earnings to shareholders.
With our earnings growth and capital return we again delivered record operating return on equity excluding AOCI of 22.1% up 270 basis points from a year ago.
Let’s move to the business and Advice &amp; Wealth Management where we had another excellent quarter.
Operating net revenues grew 13% to $1.2 billion driven by strong growth and assets from client flows and equity market appreciation.
As I mentioned we’re seeing good levels of activity.
Total client assets increased 11% to $434 billion with continued strong inflows of $3.8 billion into our investment advisory programs.
The combination of strong flows asset growth and productivity as well as ongoing expense management led to a 35% increase in operating PTI and pre-tax operating margin up significantly to 16.9%.
Our priority is to bring in new clients and assets to Ameriprise and to deepen relationships so we can continue to increase retail client flows.
In September we were back on the air with a new commercial from our Real Questions Real Answers advertising campaign featuring our confident retirement approach.
A recent study showed that more than two-thirds of affluent consumers do not have a formal financial plan to reach their long-term goals.
We know that confident retirement not only tests well with the mass affluent but also with affluent consumers those with over $1 million in investable assets.
In fact we think there is a greater opportunity for us to serve more of the affluent consumer base.
I recently attended a conference with our private wealth advisors and they’re motivated to grow further in affluent market using the capabilities we offer that resonate well with these consumers.
Overall our advisor force is strong and our retention as well as satisfaction rates remain very high.
In terms of recruiting experienced advisors we brought in another 81 in the quarter.
The productivity of the advisors we’re attracting continues to grow and our recruiting pipeline so far in the fourth quarter looks quite good.
In terms of bringing in new clients and assets and AWM we’re pleased with our confident retirement approaches engaging our existing clients as well as prospects.
Our advisors are finding it really helps to simplify the conversation so people better understand what they need to do to plan for a secure retirement and how Ameriprise can help.
Our advisors who are using it with their clients in the target age range have had meaningful increase in net flows.
We’re also investing in and helping our advisors take advantage of our technology marketing and social media capabilities to increase their productivity gain new clients and deepen current relationships.
We’re helping advisor offices operate more efficiently.
Our paperless office tools like e-forms and electronic check scanning reduce expenses for advisors and the company as well as the complexity and time needed to manage client documents.
We also have a new online tool for document creation and management making it easier for advisors and their teams to work and collaborate wherever they may be.
And in terms of engaging clients we’re also seeing success with our Total View our account aggregation tool as a way to help deepen relationships.
Our advisors are also increasingly using our award-winning social media to expand their digital presence and acquire clients.
Our social media capabilities can help advisors build a credible robust online presence to encourage shared connections with prospective clients.
During the quarter we received results from a client relationship study and satisfaction with both our advisors and with Ameriprise has increased 3 points to 92% an all-time high.
In addition 93% of our clients said they’re likely to continue working with Ameriprise also up 3%.
As a result of our efforts and the actions we’ve focused on to drive growth advisory productivity a metric we’ve consistently grown continues to increase.
Compared to a year ago it’s up double-digits to $483 000 on a trailing 12 month basis.
Overall it was another terrific quarter for Advice &amp; Wealth Management.
Now let’s move to Asset Management where we’re delivering good financial performance but we have more work to do from a flows perspective.
Our assets under management grew to $505 billion up 5% from a year ago mainly driven by positive equity markets as well as growth in our International business.
We had a strong quarter from an earnings perspective.
Operating net revenues were up 8% and we’re managing expenses as we invest in the business.
Pre-tax operating earnings were up 21% to $208 million and our adjusted pre-tax operating margin was a competitive 41.3%.
In terms of the business and our flows in the quarter overall we experienced net outflows of about $4 billion.
Nearly half of that came from ex-parent affiliated distribution including Zurich and Balboa.
The remainder was due to domestic outflows and DCIO RIA and sub-advisory.
However we’re seeing some stabilization in these flows.
We’ve also experienced net outflows from weaker European retail flows.
As well we were affected by PM moves earlier in the year.
We believe that the impact of the PM change is largely behind us and there is good performance coming from the team.
This was somewhat offset by strong third party institutional flows of about $1 billion where winning key mandates from clients in North America Europe and Asia.
The Institutional business is on track and I feel very good about our capabilities and global growth opportunity.
We’ve also added Joe Kringdon an industry veteran as Head of U.S.
Intermediary reporting to Ted.
We’re refocusing our efforts on key client relationships where we can drive flows in the future and expect to gain traction over time.
In addition to our focus on gaining share in traditional products we’re building our capabilities in global products and in multi-asset solutions for both our Retail and Institutional channels.
We’re investing expanding in areas like adaptive risk parity liquid alternatives Asian equity and bonds and global products.
And we think that over time we can gain good traction that would further add to our flows and complement our core business as we build our track record and awareness of these products and our capabilities.
Overall we have good talent a growing product line and expanding distribution footprint.
We’re executing our plan and beginning to gain traction in key growth areas but there is more to do.
Let’s move to annuities and protection which help us deepen relationships with our clients across life stages and are important to our confident retiming approach.
Adjusting for unlocking we’re generating good returns in our Annuities business with lower risk and volatility as we continue to grow at the moderate pace we want.
In Variable Annuities client account balances grew 5% due to market appreciation and we had good sales in our channel at about $1.2 billion.
As we work with clients to help ensure their retirement lifestyle through tax management and protection we’re selling more variable annuities without living benefits.
This complements sales with living benefits as a way for clients to cover essential living expenses.
In fact sales of the variable annuities without living benefits increased to nearly 30% of total variable annuity sales in the quarter.
In Fixed Annuities underlying results are up from our re-pricing of the book and improved spread income.
As we stated our focus remains on the overall profitability of the book as we’re not currently adding to it.
Overall with folks still making it easier for clients and advisors to understand the benefits that annuities can provide in terms of reliable retirement income.
With regard to Protection excluding unlocking pre-tax operating earnings were up 10%.
In Life Insurance earnings were impacted by higher health claims although it was within our expected ranges.
VUL/UL sales picked up a bit year-over-year with our RiverSource TrioSource product.
VUL/UL ending account balances were up 6% largely from the markets.
TrioSource is an interesting UL product that combines a tax qualified long-term care rider that fits well with our financial planning approach.
In Auto &amp; Home earnings improved and we’re seeing steady growth in policies up 11% from a year ago.
We’re seeing improved levels of loss ratios.
We have initiatives underway to enhance our modeling and pricing capabilities that we believe will get us back to a stronger position over the next number of quarters.
Ameriprise Auto &amp; Home is rated one of the best for client satisfaction in the second quarter.
And to complement that we were recently ranked number two in California by a leading consumer publication that measured consumer satisfaction based on price distribution and policy offerings.
We consistently earn high accolades for our offering.
To summarize we had a strong third quarter with solid revenue growth strong operating earnings growth and operating ROE north of 22%.
I feel good about our current position.
Our diversified business provides great benefits for clients advisors and our shareholders.
We continue to grow the business consistent with our plan expanding our fee based earnings complemented by the stability and diversification of our spread business.
At quarter end about 64% of our pre-tax operating earnings excluding unlocking were driven by our low capital Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management businesses.
Like everyone we’re paying close attention to global markets and providing our advisors with resources and thoughtful insights to use with clients understanding that while they’re focused on planning for the long term goals the current markets are top of mind.
Our strong business results excellent financial foundation and ability to generate significant free cash flow provides the ability to continue to return to shareholders as we have in the past.
With that I'll pass the call to Walter for a review of the numbers.
Thank you Jim.
Ameriprise delivered another quarter of excellent financial results.
So let’s start with operating and net revenue growth on Page 3.
In total operating net revenues grew 8% due to strong market appreciation and wrap flows partially offset by net outflows in Asset Management.
It should be noted that net investment income has been challenged by the low interest rate environment but the other revenue lines are up almost 10% from last year.
Total assets under management and administration increased 8% to nearly $800 billion at the end of the quarter.
Solid revenue growth combined with continued expense discipline resulted in a record AWM and Asset Management margin of 16.9% and 41.3% respectively.
Together Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management operating earnings grew 27% and accounted for 68% of earnings.
Excluding DAC unlocking those segments account for 64% of the earnings up from 59% last year demonstrating our continued business mix shift.
Let's turn to EPS and return on equity on slide four.
Operating return on equity continues to increase reaching another all-time high of 22.1% and in the upper end of our targeted range of 19% to 23%.
Operating earnings per share also reached a new record level of $2.10.
Excluding unlocking in both periods EPS was up 28% to $2.24.
This is the result of solid business growth and fundamentals across all segments as well as continued capital redeployment.
I’ll turn to slide five to take you through the details on Advice &amp; Wealth Management.
We continued to deliver excellent business metrics and financial results in Advice &amp; Wealth Management with 13% top line growth.
Pre-tax operating earnings were up 35% to $205 million due to strong client flows asset levels and market appreciation.
As we have discussed previously we are seeing continued improvement in the earnings and margins in both the employee and franchise channels.
In total margins reached a new record high of 16.9% up 270 basis points.
The spread earned on the $19 billion of brokerage cash was 19 basis points for this quarter.
So there remains substantial upside potential for an increase in short term rates going forward.
Overall the business continues to deliver consistent good results demonstrating the strength of our business model.
We continue to invest for future growth building on our brand and adding capabilities to support our clients and advisors.
Turning to Asset Management on slide six revenues increased 8% to $839 million primarily from growth in assets under management from strong markets and performance fees at Threadneedle.
And we remain focused on tightly managing expenses.
We continue to deliver solid financial performance with earnings growth of 21% and our margin exceeding 40%.
Investment performance remains solid with 121 four and five star rated funds and we saw improvement across many styles at Columbia.
Let’s turn to flows on slide seven.
In the quarter we experienced 4.1 billion of net outflows.
We had net outflows of 3.5 billion in retail across Columbia and Threadneedle.
We had outflows in several areas we had discussed in the past namely former parent affiliated distribution.
In addition we continue to face some challenges in Retail at Columbia particularly in the DCIO channel.
We had Retail net outflows of $1 billion at Threadneedle due to industry weakness in Europe and from a portfolio manager change on the U.S.
equities team from earlier this year.
U.S.
equity performance remains solid and the level of outflows has declined.
Institutional net outflows of $500 million were driven by strong $1.1 billion of third party net inflows at Columbia which were more than offset by several former parent related areas at both Columbia and Threadneedle.
The third party institutional pipeline remains solid looking over the next couple of quarters.
Turning to annuities on slide eight pre-tax operating earnings were $128 million down from $205 million last year due to unlocking and re-reversion.
Excluding those items in both periods pre-tax operating earnings were up 18%.Variable annuity pre-tax operating earnings grew 12% from a year ago to 119 million excluding unlocking and re-reversion.
This was driven by higher fees from improved equity markets.
The inflows [ph] block is solid with account values up $5% to $76 billion.
Our net amount at risk as a percent of account value is less than 1% in total for living benefits and death benefits.
We continue to write new business with a very attractive risk profile offering products with living benefit guarantees using our managed volatility funds and products without living benefits that provide tax advantage accumulation for our clients.
In fact 28% of our new sales in the quarter were without living benefits.
Fixed annuity pre-tax operating earnings increased 42% to $37 million excluding unlocking.
This reflects the re-pricing of the majority of our five-year guaranteed block.
Fixed annuity account values declined 8% to $12.4 billion with lapse rates in line with our expectations.
Turning to Protection on slide nine pre-tax operating earnings were up 10% to $87 million excluding unlocking.
Our Life &amp; Health businesses were impacted by the continued low interest rate environment.
Health claims were in line with expectation but at the higher end of the range.
Auto &amp; Home earnings continue to improve this quarter.
Our prior accident years are performing well and we have had no additional adverse loss development.
Let’s turn to capital on Slide 10 our balance sheet remains strong with approximately $2.5 billion of excess capital.
Based upon our risk management assessment we reduced our contingent capital for market dislocation from $500 million to $250 million which contributed to the increase in excess capital.
We continue to return over 100% of operating earnings to shareholders with $442 million distributed through dividends and share repurchase in the quarter.
Our significant return on capital is an important driver of our ROE expansion reaching 22.1%.
With that we will take your questions.
I just wanted to start with the Asset Management earnings for the quarter I guess $208 million.
If I look back over the past four quarters and take out the disclosed items that you typically give us seems the range has been $178 million to $194 million so 3Q 2014 was quite a bit above that range.
My first question was there anything either seasonal or unusual that drove the upside in 3Q versus what we've seen the past couple of quarters?  Suneet its Walter.
The two things we had performance fees and also the market gave us a lift and those are the two items that drove both the earnings up and the margin going up 40.
Can you quantify the performance fees? It’s around $9 million.
And that's not -- that's not a quarterly thing that happens? That's just a third quarter event? No.
That actually happens throughout the quarters.
And as we -- but that does happen throughout the quarters.
Okay.
So we could see that again in 4Q performance from Israel.
Absolutely.
Moving to Advice &amp; Wealth Management at your investor day you gave us some good information about some of the margins by channel.
Could give us an update in terms of where you sit today?  As we indicated on the employee channel that is certainly heading into the high single digits and that is improving as we talked about.
And certainly on our franchise channel is performing in the high teens.
Okay.
And then on the recruited advisors of 81 has there been any change? My understanding is over the past several quarters it’s been about 50-50 between which channels the EARs go into.
Is that about where you continue to be? That’s approximately right.
Yes.
Then my last question and I'll re-queue is just on the earnings mix.
So 64% from Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management if you exclude the unlocks that seems to be coming in higher than at least where I thought it would be at this stage in the story.
Where do you see that going over the next couple years in terms of the earnings contribution from A&amp;WM and Asset Management? As Jim has indicated and we indicated certainly we see that it could hit 70%.
We see it going up.
And we talked about 70% and certainly again into that range.
So and it is tracking.
We’re doing well in the two areas.
Okay.
It just seems to me that we could push above 70% particularly if short-term interest rates start to give you some help.
One could yes.
All right.
I’ll re-queue.
Thanks.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
I appreciate you taking the questions.
Just staying on the Asset Management business for a moment.
Your adjusted margin was over 40%.
I think it's a bit higher you called out some performance fees but I assume there's some comp against that.
So when you look on a go-forward basis just given some of the new product development that you have coming down the pike how are you thinking about margin opportunity from here? The margin opportunity as we said we were in the ranges of the upper 30s and I think that again is a market driven and other things and certainly as the products take on you get mix shifts also coming between fixed and equity so there’s a lot of moving parts to it.
But certainly staying in the upper teens and 40 range is certainly something that is possible.
Again it’s subjects to market so if the mix shift as it relates to where it's fixed or its equity.
In terms of the flow dynamics I'm sort of curious.
A lot of volatility through the end of the third quarter and into October.
Any sort of update on real time trends of what's happening? Then the broader question would be [you listed offers here at] sort of five or six initiatives maybe even more than that.
When do you think that you could start to see some unit growth filtering into net flows from those initiatives? Well what we see this is Jim.
What we see right now is we still have a good strong pipeline and institutional business.
We’ve been expanding some of our mandates on a more global basis and winning business there.
We are building new products and capabilities both our global as well as our asset allocation risk parody et cetera.
And we see flows starting to come in in that type of area.
Probably as we go into the 2015 and the quarters in 2015 that that would hopefully start to add to our flow picture as those products come more online and we build up the sales channel for it.
The retail we see some improvements.
Retail sales slowed a bit in the third quarter because of Europe.
I think you'll find that across the industry.
It’s more of a slowing on the sales but that has bounced back in the past as things settled.
So we’re expecting hopefully that over the next number of months to continue to turn around again.
And if we look at the U.S.
side of it we think there is a large opportunity for us to get really focused.
We have a new leadership.
We are really looking at our various channels and our products right now.
So hopefully we’ll gain some traction.
We see some traction being gained but unfortunately we had some additional outflows that we experienced in the third quarter from some of the DCIO et cetera that we think is starting to stem.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Hey Jim Walter good morning guys.
The first question I'm going to have is around the AWM business one of the larger independent players in the space has been facing some challenges more recently with respect to compliance and regulation-related issues.
I was just wondering whether or not when you look at your financial advisor pipeline you starting to potentially gain more traction? Partially due to these sort of dislocations in the industry seeing how you guys have been somehow more immune from some of these compliance issues.
We have a very good compliance model in place good technology good supervision.
We have very good expertise particularly in some of these alternative products that we offer.
So we feel very comfortable about that from a compliance and regulatory perspective.
We are seeing a good pipeline of people both coming from independence as well as from the warehouses into our channel.
One of the things that we sort of focus on is making sure that we do a very good compliant business but we also are very focused from our client perspective.
One of the keys that we really look for is high client satisfaction.
As we mentioned we just completed our annual study there and our client satisfaction is quite strong both for the advisor and the firm.
And that’s some of the things that we really focus on.
And when we put the tools the capabilities the programs we have in place and the advice type of model.
So that’s what we're looking to continue to attract here for new people joining us.
Got it.
And since you mentioned just curious if you guys would be willing to tell what -- when look at the OEM revenues how much are non-traded REITs have been contributing so far this year? I don’t have that off the top of my head but I think it’s actually a bit lower than it has been in the past based on just the market situation for some of those products less on the compliant end for us.
That hasn’t been an issue.
It’s just more on the type of product in this market environment.
Got it.
Thanks.
Second question for Walter.
Clearly G&amp;A has been really well controlled both in AWM and Asset Management.
Maybe taking a step back kind of bigger picture if you could talk a little bit about how should we think about the growth in the G&amp;A expense in both of these segments from here into 2015? Again we it’s one of the focuses is Alex of the way we manage the business both to invest in the business and reengineer and that continually is being done.
So we do look at that as something that we manage and contain relative to the opportunity and relative to our revenue growth.
So you should see it being controlled going forward as we look into 2015.
Got it.
Good to know.
Then the last one for me I noticed the amount of excess capital increased due to some of the reasons you guys discussed in the press release.
Sort of additional $500 million relative to where you were last quarter.
At the same time and not that anybody's complaining but the amount in dollar terms of your kind of total buybacks and dividends has gone down over the last few quarters relative to what you were doing in 2013.
So I guess when you kind of put these two things together how should we think about deployment of that extra $500 million that showed up in your excess capital?  Okay.
Obviously we continue to evaluate the situation.
But we certainly are committed to returning to our shareholders.
And right now we’re close to 110%.
It is lower than it has been.
As Jim said and we’ve said we will certainly manage it as we see the stock price as we see the situation and being optimistic about it.
But you see the trend line increasing as we indicated going forward as what they that.
So it will be something that again we will continue to evaluate but certainly it should be on a good trend line.
Thanks for the second question.
Just to clarify on the performance fees at Threadneedle the $9 million Walter that you cited was that a revenue number or a pretax earnings number? That was pre-tax.
Pretax earnings okay.
Then I guess on the annuity business particularly the variable annuity business.
I guess if I look at your capital allocation it's only about $564 million or about 0.7% of account value.
That just seems like a very low capital allocation versus what I'm used to seeing from other companies.
And I know your mix of business might be different from other companies.
But I guess I'm just trying to understand how you get comfortable with only allocating that much capital to the business? That certainly has tail risk as we've seen in recent periods.
This has been consistent as we’ve evaluated our strategy of offering product and certainly the way we hedge the product and certainly as we’ve gone into a more macro hedging.
It has been something that has been.
I would say the cornerstone of how we approach this business which does distinguish us I believe from others.
So we have evaluated the situation using the approach that I told you multiple stress looking at it.
But you have to take a look at the product construct that we have both the historic and then just switching to the managed file now more nonliving benefits and certainly the stability of the network and solution sector and the hedging that we’ve deployed again.
So we actually do feel very comfortable in evaluating and we’re taking down from 500 to 250 looking at the situations.
And we’ve been very consistent.
I do feel very comfortable with it.
Pretax earnings okay.
Then I guess on the annuity business particularly the variable annuity business.
I guess if I look at your capital allocation it's only about $564 million or about 0.7% of account value.
That just seems like a very low capital allocation versus what I'm used to seeing from other companies.
And I know your mix of business might be different from other companies.
But I guess I'm just trying to understand how you get comfortable with only allocating that much capital to the business? That certainly has tail risk as we've seen in recent periods.
This has been consistent as we’ve evaluated our strategy of offering product and certainly the way we hedge the product and certainly as we’ve gone into a more macro hedging.
It has been something that has been I would say the cornerstone of how we approach this business which does distinguish us I believe from others.
So we have evaluated the situation using the approach that I told you multiple stress looking at it.
But you have to take a look at the product construct that we have both the historic and then just switching to the managed file now more nonliving benefits and certainly the stability of the network and solution sector and the hedging that we’ve deployed again.
So we actually do feel very comfortable in evaluating and we’re taking down from 500 to 250 looking at the situations.
And we’ve been very consistent.
I do feel very comfortable with it.
Got it.
And then I guess of the improvement in excess capital from I guess roughly $2 billion to $2.5 billion.
So clearly $250 million of the $500 million is your decision to take down the contingent.
But the remaining $250 million whatever the number is is that really just market movements between hedges and variable annuity liabilities that could reverse? Particularly if interest rates rise over the next couple quarters? Yes that’s part of it.
And I would say the other part is a small portion of the debt that we just issued went into that too.
Because again as we talked about we are planning on certainly taking advantage of the rate situation and to use that for future maturities but it is that and a small piece of it is the debt.
Right.
So if rates move up by the time we get to 4Q that would have a negative impact on the $2.5 billion of excess?  It will have somewhat of a negative but again looking at our hedging strategy looking at the other elements within it it is certainly manageable within that.
And so when we look at it and I’ll candid taking it down from 500 to 250 we’ve looked over -- nobody can predict everything but we looked up for multiple periods to ensure that we’d be able to feel comfortable about that.
Hi thanks.
It's Mike Zaremski from Balyasny.
Two quick questions.
In auto and home you mentioned catastrophe levels were similar to last year's levels.
On an absolute basis are those levels above or below plan for Q3? And also just curious the equity volatility that we've seen in October does that have any kind of meaningful impact on activity levels or anything in AWM or Asset Management outside of obvious equity markets sensitivity to earnings? Yeah.
On the Auto &amp; Home it was within ranges a couple of main dials but it was pretty close with what it would be.
Just on the impact from the equity markets we have not seen any material change in regard to the retail business at AWM or in regard to asset management in general.
What we did see and did talk about was a little more of the European slowdown from the volatility or the concerns that were in Europe and so that we have seen as a little bit of an effect particularly on the retail flows in Europe.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from a follow up from Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for the follow-up guys.
Just a quick one for you.
When you look at short-term funds or the balances you disclosed on the AWM slide $23 billion of which the $19 billion is in the brokerage sweep.
I guess my question is where's the remaining $4 billion? And as we think about the sensitivity to higher interest rates for this business do we -- do you guys usually talk about the $19 billion or the whole $23 billion? Maybe help square that away.
I don't know if it's in money market funds where you get the few dollars back or something of that nature.
It’s Walter Alex.
It’s in certificates.
Short term certificates and it so it will have an impact as the markets go up and in given us better spreads.
But again it’s in the calculation.
It will not be as rapid as certainly a big sweep accounts but certainly we'll get benefit from it.
How does the sensitivity work in that $4 billion? You mean sensitivity obviously they’re in three months six months nine months maturity depending on where they in the cycle and depending on where the rates go that's where we will pick it up.
It's less reactive than sweep.
Got it but the magnitude overall you would say is somewhat similar? Most of it's in the sweep really.
No? Okay.
All right.
It's more [indiscernible].
All right.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lorraine and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Alicia Charity.
Ms.
Charity you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial's Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
On the call with me today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we'll be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insights into the company's operations.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today's materials available on our website.
Some statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management's expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today's date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today's earnings release our 2013 annual report to shareholders and our 2013 10-K report.
We take no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for today's earnings call.
I'll spend my time discussing what I'm seeing in the business.
Walter will talk to the numbers and then we'll be happy to take your questions.
In terms of the quarter and 2014 overall I feel good about Ameriprise and our position.
The fourth quarter we delivered was a continuation of a strong year.
We're executing our strategy well and generating good results.
For the fourth quarter operating net revenues continued to grow up 5% with good growth in operating earnings up 16% and operating earnings per diluted share up a very strong 23%.
For the full year 2014 operating net revenues grew 7% with good movement in operating earnings of 14% and operating EPS up a very strong 21%.
We also had solid growth in assets under management and administration which increased 5% to $806 billion.
This was driven by continued good advisor/client flows and market appreciation.
Our strong growth in earnings allows us to generate significant free cash so we're able to consistently deliver differentiated shareholder return while maintaining our financial strength all while investing in the business.
In the fourth quarter we returned $444 million to shareholders.
And for the full year we returned $1.8 billion to shareholders which is 109% of our operating earnings.
In fact 2014 marked 4 consecutive years that we have returned more than 100% of our operating earnings to shareholders.
We expect to continue to return strongly to shareholders and have targeted a 90% to 100% range annually and we will evaluate based on circumstances.
With strong business results and significant capital return operating return on equity reached another high.
Excluding AOCI we ended the year at 23% up from 19.7% at the end of 2013.
Very few financial services companies are generating this level and growth of ROE and capital return.
We've consistently grown these measures at a meaningful rate.
Let's move to the business starting with Advice &amp; Wealth Management where we had another terrific quarter in terms of financial results in executing our strategy for continued growth and margin expansion.
We had strong growth in our key measures.
Revenues earnings client assets inflows and advisor productivity were all up nicely.
Operating net revenue increased 11% to $1.2 billion reflecting our strong fundamentals and positive markets.
We're seeing good levels of client activity.
Total client assets grew 9% to $444 billion with continued strong net inflows of over $3 billion into our investment advisory programs.
Our total RAP program is one of the largest in the industry at $175 billion growing 14% for the year.
With good revenue growth we've also increased profitability in AWM up 33% and we've also significantly expanded operating margin to 17% for the quarter and we delivered this with interest rates at all-time lows.
In AWM we continue to focus on growing the business and delivering an excellent client experience and we feel good about our ability to help our advisors build productive practices.
With millions of boomers moving to retirement we're at the heart of the opportunity with our Confident Retirement approach.
You've seen it in our commercials which we just brought to market in early 2014.
Confident Retirement works well for the mass affluent and it resonates well with the affluent.
We think there's a terrific opportunity for us to serve even more affluent investors as we move forward.
Another opportunity that we're focused on is around accumulators.
We're expanding Confident Retirement to use for clients in the accumulation stage.
In addition to the affluent and to those who are closer to retirement the Gen Xs and Ys who are building their wealth also fit within our sweet spot.
We continue to invest significantly in our brand and our leading capabilities to help our advisors grow their practices and increase efficiency.
As we ended the year brand awareness reached an all-time high.
In fact we were recently awarded the Gold Midas Award in Financial Services Retirement Category for our "Real Questions Real Answers " advertising campaign that is currently in the market.
The campaign includes commercials digital advertising social media and the 3-minute Confident Retirement digital experience.
With that in mind we continue to invest significantly in our brand and the leading capabilities that help our advisors grow their practices.
And we're helping our advisors to ensure they fully benefit from the investments we've made especially in our brokerage platform online and mobile capabilities.
As we help advisors take advantage of these capabilities even more with greater uptake our advisors can grow productively and serve more clients.
Our advisors who have taken advantage of our technology platform find that it helps them save time increase efficiency and productivity.
At the company level we're realizing operating cost efficiencies from our technology investments and upgrades made over the past several years.
Because we're providing good value and service client satisfaction with Ameriprise is at an all-time high in the 90s.
And with that Ameriprise was rated #1 in customer experience across investment firms in The 2014 Forrester Customer Experience index.
We also have strong relationships with our advisors.
Our culture of support in helping them achieve good growth in their practices has led to good engagement and retention that is very high; on average in the Mid-90s.
I spent time at the start of the month with all of our field leaders and they're feeling motivated about helping our advisors to continue to grow.
The Ameriprise value proposition and culture is attractive in the industry.
In terms of recruiting experienced advisors we brought in another 73 in the quarter.
The productivity of the advisors we're attracting continues to grow and our recruiting pipeline for 2015 looks good.
As a result of the actions we're focused on to drive growth advisor productivity a metric we've consistently grown continues to increase.
Compared to a year ago it's up 13% on a trailing 12-month basis to $496 000 per advisor.
Overall it was another terrific quarter and year for AWM.
We have deep relationships with our clients and advisors and excellent satisfaction.
We're focused on continuing to drive client engagement and serve more people especially in the affluent space.
This leads to strong results.
We're delivering nice growth and profitability with the ability to continue.
And the business consistently delivers the results we're targeting and we feel good about our opportunity for future growth.
Now let's move to Asset Management where we have generated good earnings growth and continued to build our positions in the U.S.
the U.K.
and Europe.
Net revenues were up 1% year-over-year with pretax operating earnings up a solid 6% and adjusted net pretax operating margin increased to a strong 40%.
Assets under management were up slightly to $506 billion as market appreciation offset net outflows over the past year.
In institutional we're seeing good growth and making good progress in third party with $1.7 billion in net inflows in the quarter.
We continue to win key mandates from clients in North America Europe and Asia including in certain strategies like Contrarian Core and investment grade debt.
We have a solid pipeline and we feel good about our capabilities as well as our global growth opportunity.
However some of our growth was offset by the regular outflows from Zürich and our ex-parent relationships.
Excluding these previously disclosed items we would have had stronger net inflows.
For the quarter we reported retail net inflows that result to strong reinvested dividends.
However we still experienced a level of outflows in one of our large funds in the DCIO channel as well as former parent company affiliated distribution and a sub-advisor.
We have seen some traction in a number of our retail channels and we know can make further progress this year.
We're focused on a number of enhancements that we're making in retail distribution.
As an example we installed a new leadership team and we're revamping our wholesaling.
And we're making greater use of business intelligence and our improved segmentation strategy.
At Threadneedle we experienced retail net outflows of about $0.5 billion largely from a single client who is a frequent asset allocator.
That said the underlying rate improved from the last quarter.
The recent ECB action should be a catalyst for European investors to see opportunities in the market and would expect to benefit as investors put money to work.
You may have also seen our announcement from a few weeks ago that Columbia and Threadneedle are rebranding in the spring to Columbia Threadneedle Investments.
The teams have been working together to increase the depth of our offering for the benefit of our clients and the business.
Introducing our global brand is a natural next step for the business.
The new global brand will represent the global capabilities resources and reach of these 2 well-established investment firms.
We're focused on expanding our distribution and global presence and continuing to add high-performing products to our mix.
Together Columbia and Threadneedle have 118 4- and 5-star Morningstar-rated funds.
We delivered another good quarter of investment performance as many of our equity and fixed income funds were positioned with a quality bias which helped as equity markets were volatile in the quarter.
In terms of product we're looking to build off our strength in traditional products and we're investing in a number of areas including in multi-asset solutions.
We just recently launched the Columbia Adaptive Risk Allocation Fund one of our key new products and I'm pleased with the response it's getting in both retail and institutional channels.
In fact Jeff Knight and his team were recognized recently with an innovation award.
We think that over time we can gain good traction that would further add to our flows and complement our core business as we build our track record and awareness of these products and capabilities.
Another example is Columbia's Adaptive Alternatives Fund which we launched yesterday.
It's an innovative collaboration with Blackstone Alternative Asset Management an example of the steps we're taking to broaden our solutions.
Overall we have good talent an expanding distribution footprint and a growing product line.
We're very focused on gaining traction in these key areas.
Let's move to Annuities and Protection which are important to our Confident Retirement approach helping to protect our clients' wealth and generating retirement income.
We're achieving good returns in our annuity business with lower risk and volatility as we continue to grow at the moderate pace we want.
In variable annuities client account balance were up slightly to $77 billion due to market appreciation and sales were $1.2 billion.
As we work with clients to help ensure their retirement lifestyle through tax management and protection we're selling more variable annuities without living benefits.
In December RiverSource annuities launched Income Guide a new income monitoring program for clients with a variable annuity without a living benefit.
This complements sales with living benefits is a way for clients to cover essential living expenses.
In fact sales of our variable annuities without living benefits increased to 28% of total variable annuity sales in the quarter.
In fixed annuities underlying results were solid as the rate actions we undertook in 2014 have improved spread income.
As we've stated our focus remains on the overall profitability of the book while the size of the book will gradually shrink given the overall sales environment.
Overall we're focused on making it easier for clients and advisors to understand the benefits that annuities can provide in terms of reliable retirement income.
In life insurance VUL/UL sales picked up a bit year-over-year with our RiverSource TrioSource product.
VUL/UL ending account balances were up 3% largely from the markets.
TrioSource is an interesting UL product that combines a tax-qualified long-term care rider that sits well within our financial planning approach.
In Auto &amp; Home we're seeing steady growth.
However Auto &amp; Home has been experiencing higher claims that resulted in us adding $60 million to reserves in the quarter.
Walter will cover this area in more detail.
However I did want to mention that we've been taking action throughout 2014 and into this year in the areas that have increased our loss ratios and cost exposures so we're working to further enhance claim processing underwriting and pricing to improve performance.
This remains a very strong business model.
We're seeing steady growth in policies from our focus on affinity channels and reputation for excellent service.
Our Auto &amp; Home business was rated one of the best firms for client satisfaction in 2014.
Overall Ameriprise had another strong quarter with good financial results adding to a strong year overall.
I believe we're positioned well for the year ahead.
We continue to have a very strong financial foundation that will give us the flexibility to navigate the markets ahead.
We are very focused on delivering the strategy we've discussed with you.
We continue to invest and generate good returns.
And we've set Ameriprise apart in terms of the strength and the consistency of our results.
We're focused on continuing the strong growth we've had in AWM.
And we're addressing areas where we can gain traction improve our flows and asset Management.
Our ability to generate significant free cash flow enables us to continue to return to shareholders as we have and maintain our excellent financial foundation.
As I mentioned at the start we delivered record return on equity and we think we can take it even higher.
With that I'd like to hand things over to Walter for a detailed review of the numbers.
Thank you Jim.
Ameriprise delivered strong results at the aggregate level in the fourth quarter with solid underlying performance in our Advice &amp; Wealth Management Asset Management Annuities and Life and Health businesses.
We had double-digit growth in earnings and EPS in the quarter.
Though Auto &amp; Home reserve increased and the significant business-driven tax benefit were largely neutralized on an EPS basis we continued to strengthen our balance sheet fundamentals.
Our investment portfolio is solid hedging is effective and we have $2.5 billion of excess capital and strong liquidity.
Let's turn to Slide 4.
Ameriprise had strong aggregate shareholder performance.
Top line performance was good with operating net revenue up 5% to $3 billion.
Operating net revenue without investment income was up 7% which is very strong.
Overall operating EPS was up 23% to $2.30 and our strong earnings free cash flow generation and capital return drove an operating return on equity of 23% which is at the upper end of our target range.
The operating effective tax rate was 20.3% in the quarter which is lower than we had anticipated for a couple of business-driven reasons.
About half of the benefit was related to the dividends received deduction being higher than expected.
The other half of the benefit was state taxes being lower which reflected a shift in the states where business activities are occurring.
Going forward we expect the higher DRD benefit and lower state taxes to continue but the impact would be spread across the year rather than being recognized all in 1 quarter.
Looking into 2015 we expect taxes to be in the 26% to 28% range up from 25.4% in 2014.
As you can see on Slide 5 the strong financial performance we had in the fourth quarter was consistent with the excellent year in 2014.
Operating net revenue grew 7% to $11.6 billion well within our target range of 6% to 8% on average over time.
Without net investment income operating net revenue was up 9%.
Operating earnings were $1.7 billion up 14% and operating EPS was up 21% to $8.52 for the year.
Turning to Slide 6.
Our business mix shift is a direct result of the strategy we are executing.
Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management represent 68% of pretax operating earnings this quarter.
The mix was impacted by the Auto &amp; Home reserve increase but without that AWM and asset management are still over 62% of the total.
Going forward the mix shift will continue and should reach 70% from these businesses.
We continue to expand margins in Advice &amp; Wealth Management reaching 17% this quarter.
As we bring in experienced advisors and help transfer their books their productivity ramps up over time.
This benefit combined with the improving productivity of our legacy advisor base is driving margin expansion and profitability improvement.
Margins in the employee channel were approximately 10% in the quarter and were almost 19% in the franchise channel.
We feel good about the improvement we're seeing across this business to drive profitability even higher.
Asset management margins were a solid 40% in the quarter on an adjusted basis up from 38.8% a year ago.
I'll get into the segment results in detail now beginning on Slide 7 with AWM.
The business is performing extremely well leading and lagging indicators as well as financials.
Client assets are up 9% as we've seen good flows in our wrap platform new accounts acquired and market lift.
Our experienced advisor recruiting is on target with 73 hires in the quarter and productivity is at an all-time high of 496 000 for the trailing 12 months.
Revenue is up 11% to $1.2 billion on strong sales and flows as well as markets.
We kept G&amp;A expenses flat year-over-year.
This resulted in earnings of $212 million up 33% and margins of 17% up from 14.2% last year.
It should be noted that we had over $20 billion of brokerage cash that was earning 20 basis points which is still near all-time lows.
Overall the business continues to deliver consistent good results demonstrating the strength of our business model.
We continue to invest for our future growth building on our brand and adding capabilities to support our clients and advisors.
Turning to Asset Management on Slide 8.
Revenue increased 1% to $830 million primarily from market appreciation which was essentially offset by the cumulative impact of outflows and lower performance fees.
During the first 3 quarters of 2014 we enjoyed the benefit of robust equity markets which more than offset the cumulative impact of net outflows on revenues.
In the fourth quarter markets pulled back especially in Europe.
As a result the lift we enjoyed from equity markets decreased and provided less of an offset to the impact of net outflows as it relates to revenue growth.
In the quarter earnings were up 6% to $198 million which was impacted by the market pullback lower performance fees and additional expenses for rebranding Columbia Threadneedle Investments and relocating Threadneedle to a new office space.
G&amp;A was very well-managed.
This is reflected in the margins at 40% up from 38.8% last year.
Turning to flows on the next slide.
We had net inflows of $5.7 billion in the quarter with inflows across retail institutional and alternative.
Retail inflows of $4.9 billion benefit from reinvestment dividends.
However Columbia had outflows in a number of areas we have previously discussed namely the former parent-affiliated distribution the RIA channel a sub-advisor and one of our large funds in the DCIO channel.
Threadneedle had retail outflows as a result of the industry-wide slowdown from geopolitical and economic concerns in Europe as well as a mandate that shifted from retail to the institutional channel.
The global institutional business is performing well with $300 million of net inflows.
We had outflows in the form of parent-related mandates at both Columbia and Threadneedle that partially offset the strong third-party inflows.
We continue winning global mandates and have a good pipeline as we move into 2015.
We have also launched a new CLO in the quarter resulting in $500 million of net inflows in alternatives.
Turning to Annuities on Slide 10.
Annuities pretax operating earnings were $159 million down 8% from last year.
However the prior year results included a significant benefit from clients moving to our managed volatility funds as well as a higher mean reversion benefit last year.
Without these items underlying annuities earnings were up 15%.
Variable annuity pretax operating earnings grew 5% from a year ago to $114 million without the benefit of clients moving to managed volatility funds and mean reversions in both periods.
This was driven by higher account values.
Fixed annuity pretax operating earnings increased 71% to $36 million.
This reflects the repricing of our 5-year guarantee block earlier in the year and our lapse rate was in line with expectations.
Let's turn to Protection segment on Slide 11.
Protection pretax operating earnings were $30 million in the quarter impacted by a $60 million reserve strengthening at Auto &amp; Home.
Underlying earnings are in line with prior periods and our expectations.
The Life and Health business is performing well with cash sales up 3% over the prior year and insurance in-force of $196 billion.
We saw marginally higher life claims than we have in recent quarters though still within expected ranges.
Earnings were also impacted by an unfavorable DAC model correction.
As a reminder we reinsure half of our long-term care block to Genworth and they process and pay all of our claims.
We carefully monitor and evaluate the information and processes.
However based upon recent events we have begun a more detailed non-routine review.
We feel good about our block particularly the risk characteristics from selling it only within our channel and the pricing actions we have taken since the mid-2000s.
As I mentioned we are increasing Auto &amp; Home reserves by $60 million this quarter of which 96% is related to several products in our Auto book.
There are a couple of key drivers of the reserve increase: first we had an additional frequency and severity experience on book years 2012 and prior representing approximately 15% of the reserve increase.
These are based on estimated ultimate losses but now have a higher probability of being realized as there are fewer outstanding cases and they are more vintaged; second the remainder of the reserve increase was for 2013 and 2014 order books which are strongly influenced by 2012 prior year's experience as well as preliminary 2013 and '14 trends.
We have minimal to moderate claims experience for these accident years and patterns are still developing.
The reserve analysis was complicated by changes associated with claims reengineering and unusual climate patterns this year.
Earlier this year we engaged outside consultants to review our processes.
Now we are phasing in changes to our pricing-to-risk modeling which will be rolled out fully by early 2016.
Additionally we are making modifications to underwriting claims and operations and we have made a variety of staffing change including bringing in a new LFO a new Head of Claims and new actuaries.
Let's turn to the balance sheet on Slide 12.
Our balance sheet remained strong with approximately $2.5 billion of excess capital.
Our risk-based capital ratio is estimated to be 600% up from 450% last year due to an increase in the unrealized gains on our hedges from lower interest rates and higher volatility.
We continue to return over 100% of operating earnings to shareholders with $444 million distributed through dividends and a share repurchase in the quarter.
For the year we returned $1.8 billion to shareholders which was 109% of operating earnings.
This is down from the level returned in 2013 which did include the return of capital associated with exiting bank operations.
Looking into 2015 we plan to return 90% to 100% of earnings to shareholders as a baseline.
With that we will take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Maybe to start off for you Jim.
First obviously you've had a lot of pressure in the Auto &amp; Home business over the past year or more and the results are in stark contrast to what we're seeing from most industry participants where underwriting results really are among the best in history.
So I guess can you help us understand exactly what you're doing to correct this? Do the -- and do the results of this business alter your view on whether this business should reside as part of Ameriprise or be divested to a more traditional operator? Okay.
Very clearly we have experienced increase in our reserve positions based on developments that have occurred beginning probably in the 2012 period.
We have grown the business tremendously over the last number of years.
We have expanded in a number of areas.
However we still feel very good about the front end of the business the affinity relationships the ability to bring in good clients in a very cost-effective way but we had to tighten up a number of various areas from the underwriting to more discipline around some particular areas in pricing et cetera.
So we are making those changes.
We think that we have the ability to improve that position over time.
But we did take the opportunity here to further increase our reserve positions based on some of those earlier trend lines.
We don't have perfect information about them.
Having said that clearly there are opportunities for us to improve.
We think that we can make those improvements.
We do believe it is -- it continues to be a good differentiated model.
And in the future we -- once we make those improvements and those changes we can evaluate the business on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if we looked out and had to -- and you had to peg when does this business generate an underwriting profit i.e.
a combined ratio under 100% is that within your visibility next couple of years? Or do you think it takes longer? No no.
It is definitely within our visibility.
And we are looking to see some improvements in 2015 and beyond.
Again it'll be gradual improvements as we make these changes and they flow in.
But we really do feel that this is something that we can get back to a good level of profitability.
And as I said we'll evaluate as we go along but we are aggressively focused on it.
It's unfortunate that we have -- some of these things have blipped up but it's something that we think we can definitely correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That was really helpful.
And then just overall on capital return the slide this year in your presentation is very similar to last year that your baseline target of returning and 90% to 100%.
And obviously the last several years you've done above that.
Can you just talk Jim maybe to the factors that would influence your decision to bring that down toward the 90% to 100%? Or keep it up somewhere well above that 100% level? I mean what are the some of the factors? I assume M&amp;A would be -- opportunities would be part of that share price would be part of that.
But can you speak to that in a little bit more depth please? Yes.
I think to the point you referenced there are always a number of factors and you go into a year and not knowing exactly what all those factors are and how the environment is.
So we -- and which is actually is quite good is that I think very few firms target at the beginning of the year to return 90% to 100% of their earnings.
Research Division</strong> No doubt.
And so we're doing that even not knowing exactly how the environment plays out.
But as you saw in the past number of years we've increased that over the year based upon those various circumstances.
So if there aren't any real good deals that we want to execute on we up that buyback.
If the market gives us even more opportunity depending on certain circumstances we can increase the buyback there as well.
So we sort of regulate that.
We are still committed to returning strongly to shareholders.
We will evaluate again a dividend increase as we always do in the first part of this year.
So it's a combination of factors but I think the positive should be that we're probably one of the highest in targeting that at the beginning of the year based on the total of the earnings and then we regulate it from there.
Research Division</strong> Totally appreciate that.
And then if I can sneak one more quick one in for Walter.
If I look at the annuity segment I generally see declining account values in both the VA and fixed annuity blocks.
So in the face of that headwind is it reasonable for us to expect any real earnings growth from this segment off of the sort of core 2014 results? I think the core number is about $590 million.
It seems spreads are about as wide as we can expect and with the headwind of lower long-term rates I'm just wondering without of course Walter giving any specific guidance directionally how should we think about this segment's earnings potential? I think it's certainly with the headwinds that you talked about it will be muted especially if you look at facing the fixed annuities coming out of lapse coming out of surrender.
So you would see that we've made the adjustments on the rate but we will see increased lapses there.
And so I would say yes it would certainly be less robust with the factors you referred to.
And our next question comes from Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Yes first on Advice &amp; Wealth.
You mentioned a 19% margin for the franchisee channel this quarter which I think is higher than even you were talking about at Investor Day of last year.
Do you still see additional upside to this margin excluding any benefit from higher interest rates? Yes.
As we talked about certainly as we vintage on the employee channel and certainly productivity and improve that we do.
If you look at the 2 models certainly from that standpoint it would -- we see employee channel increasing and it has doubled from last year as we look.
And we have seen improvement and I do anticipate some improvement.
But again interest rate is certainly a factor and certainly market will influence but we are getting good productivity improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you still see from the point that the 19% can stay at this level or move slightly higher even without rates? Again yes I do.
As -- again we're talking environmental and other things yes.
But those into consideration yes we are making progress.
Research Division</strong> And then is there any sensitivity that you can provide for how changes in interest rate assumptions or if we are in a low for long environment would affect your balance sheet? Know you obviously do the annual review in the third quarter but kind of any help in terms of sensitivities to your I guess long-term rate assumptions would be helpful? Yes I think it's from the standpoint again on it's not so much the long-term rate.
It's going to be the grading.
And so it's a start point where you are then the grading from there which will be the implication.
I think the long-term rate again we think are -- we're using is appropriate.
But we will then have to assess just like we will now the start point of where the rate is.
And then what we do anticipate the long-term grading depending on which product you're looking at.
Obviously the long-term care has a very long window.
Others have less.
So and -- so that would be the balance sheet impact.
The other thing is the reinvestment returning over most of about 25% a year.
So as we reinvest that's going to have a bit of a drag on it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And can you just remind us what was the change you made in the third quarter of 2014? The change from what standpoint? Research Division</strong> Sorry for the interest rate assumption that drove kind of the modest charge that you have in the third quarter? What we did is basically we reset it obviously to the June rate.
And then we just basically readjusted the grading and slowed it down.
We kept the long-term rate the same but we readjusted down which of course it did not hit the original target we thought that we set in 2013.
So we did take that unlocking.
And then we just graded it up basically more looking at from our standpoint the situation which was a little slower on grading up.
And our next question comes from Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Jim a couple questions on the asset management business and just a quick follow-up for Walt after.
So when I think about the rebranding initiative between Columbia and Threadneedle and you guys will kind of try to go out and market it is one help me understand I guess a little bit what kind of doors does this sort of approach open up relative to what you guys were doing before? What kind of new client pools are you targeting with that? And maybe just some sort of a tangible way to illustrate how maybe 1 plus 1 could equal 3 in that scenario if that's the case? So we've made a number of changes over the last 1.5 years or so really to put together a number of capabilities between the Threadneedle business and Columbia and put together both core products that are managed by the capabilities of both to how we're even doing asset allocation on a global basis and some of the managed type of activities we're doing and the new solutions that we're launching.
So very clearly there's the underlying activities that already made some changes to what we're doing today and how we're doing it including the ability to share research the ability to use some of the capabilities of Threadneedle and Columbia combined to build various portfolios and global products.
So the combination of the brand gives us an ability a further ability to market our products across borders.
So today we're already selling Columbia funds as part of Threadneedle and Threadneedle as part of Columbia.
But particularly as I think about -- as an example I'll give you the first one institutional.
To go to market better as a combined firm makes it easier to work with global clients.
It gives us the ability to talk about more of those products using our institutional sales force together.
It also gives us the ability to use the combined resources for products that we're putting in the market and to talk about that in a much more appropriate way.
So we do see good opportunity coming from the combination but we did a lot of work behind the brand already and we will do continued more work to really leverage the combined capabilities of the 2 firms.
So we will launch this in the market in the spring more formally.
Now the underlying for retail distribution in the U.S.
or retail distribution in Threadneedle won't be as much severe -- significantly impacted.
It'll start more from a global positioning an institutional basis and then over time take shape and form in the retail segments.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's helpful.
And then the recent product launch you guys announced with Blackstone internal looks pretty interesting given all the kind of chatter around retail liquid alts in the space.
Help us understand I guess a little bit how this product will be managed and how it will be marketed to clients.
And I guess how long do you think it requires for us to see some sort of traction from an asset gathering perspective? Is that kind of like you're typical you seed it and then you market it and a couple years down the road so it's going to be a few of years until we see some meaningful progress here? Or could that be done sooner? Well we do believe that there is an appetite for this type of product in the retail space today.
So it's more of a convenience of a traditional mutual fund with daily liquidity and multiple share classes that will give investors access to Blackstone's Advice multi-strategy perspective that leverage in their underlying hedge fund advisers that they select.
And it will combine that with alternative beta strategies and nontraditional assets including commodities REITs inflation linked bonds private equity managed by Columbia.
So the combination we think of the types of capabilities that we're bringing to bear put into a wrapper of a retail fund with daily liquidity we think will have some appetite as advisors look to diversify their portfolios and get some alternative means based on the market conditions.
So I think it gives them a greater access to these alternative type of strategies.
It has the combination of benefits of the 2 strong firms and the diversification that they can get from alternatives.
So we think it will take shape.
We don't think it's something that will wait to see flows over the long period of time.
We think there's an appetite there over the course of the year.
And hopefully later in the year we'll be able to report some of the sales that we're seeing from the product.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just a follow-up to that one how are the economics in this product work? So what's kind of the fee split or the sub-advisory fee that goes to Blackstone? Well I think again based on the combination of the fund and the makeup there is a fee structure for the -- as part of the alternative side that will go to Blackstone and then there's a fee for the other part of that managed fund that we share so that we have.
And so there's a sharing truly of the fee structure underneath it.
Of course with the combination and being on the alternative side there is a higher fee for that type of product than the normal mutual fund fee.
Research Division</strong> That sounds great.
And then Walter just one for you quick on the -- when we think about the currency fluctuations over the course of last quarter and certainly continued dollar strength so far in '15.
When I think about Ameriprise holistically as an enterprise from a pretax income perspective is it fair to assume you guys are pretty currency neutral given expenses and revenues from Threadneedle obviously and pounds? Well I would say it's current yes [ph] because obviously we make a profit.
So we'll take a translation there if that's what you're referring.
That's with the translation.
That is the majority of the exposures in -- is out of the U.K.
Obviously there are some offsets but it is certainly -- it would impact a PTI asset.
Research Division</strong> Any sense on the sensitivity if it does? So like if the dollar strengthened [indiscernible] Well the dollar strengthening is again -- the pound is moved from -- last year it was somewhere in the $1.60s and now it's in the $1.50s.
So on that basis it -- I think we talked about last year it has impacts that are certainly manageable at this -- it's in the I would say on the translation basis it's probably in the $10 million $15 million range if you drop the -- when you dropped it down.
Actually on that drop you're probably talking in say around $20 million.
And our next question comes from Ryan Krueger from KBW.
First I had a follow-up on the rebranding of Colombia and Threadneedle.
I certainly understand the long-term rationale and the benefits that they could have.
But in the shorter term should we expect any meaningful costs associated with that rebranding over the next few quarters? There'll be and there were some incremental cost in the fourth quarter.
There'll be some incremental cost in the first quarter this year.
But we're not looking at real sizable amounts here.
What we are doing is repurposing some of our current marketing and branding costs for the new brand but there'll be some incremental as you change the various materials and signage and some other aspects of it.
So it's something that we think is very manageable but it will increase of course slightly based upon the rebranding.
But again as I said we think it's the right thing to do that can be leveraged over time.
Got it.
Okay.
And then on -- given the I guess the lower interest lower long-term interest rate environment we're in today do you have any updated sensitivities you can give us in terms of the earnings headwind that that gives you in the fixed Annuity and Protection businesses? Sure.
So let me break it out.
The first one obviously is going to be on DAC.
And when we set our DAC rates the rates back down were in the $250 million range.
Now you -- the start point is in $170 million as we look at and we are grading up.
So that's going to be one impact we are constantly monitoring and so that will have a noncash impact.
When we look at locking in the third quarter or if we see this situation we have to unlock earlier.
As it relates to the long-term book with the fixed annuities it is more on the -- we reset on the guaranteed minimum rates and so this space is just the earning rate and the earning rates on both that and life and health would be impacted because of the duration of the situation as we turn it over.
So like I said it's about 20% 25%.
And on that basis you're talking about 40 50 basis points in differential as we look at it on average as you go through it.
So that's the sort of activity levels they see.
The numbers themselves are manageable.
It's just we are defensive and in a defensive posture there and it will have an impact but the impact is manageable than the number.
But it...
Okay.
And then last one on the tax rate.
You gave the 26% to 28% tax rate guidance for 2015.
As we think about the mix of your earnings shifting over time specifically your -- seems to have a lower contribution from variable annuities in the DRD benefits that that provides you.
Would you expect your tax rate over a longer period of time to gradually rise as a result of the mix shift? In the current legislation that's exactly what happens.
We also are deriving the DRD benefits as you saw.
But again the tax rate's associated with the AWM business and the asset management business don't have some of the benefits that are derived so therefore they're at the more marginal the statutory rate.
So yes it will erode but again it's good profitability.
And our next question comes from Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the P&amp;C results or the Auto results specifically.
And I guess one question I still have is looking at PIS count growth why are we seeing growth which I think is above industry average while there's still turmoil and while you're still kind of trying to clean up the claims experience and the previous legacy premiums? Okay.
So first of all we did -- we do have good growth.
We actually have very strong growth in the home side of it.
The Auto side has slowed down a little bit.
We've made some adjustments over the course.
We'll probably adjust a bit more as we go through and put in some of the tighter underwriting and repricing in certain areas.
But we did experience some good growth based upon the expansion on some of our channel activity in the affinity area.
So it's one of the things that we're closely monitoring right now.
We have slowed down a bit of that growth.
We might slow it a little more in certain sections where we have experienced some of the blip-up in the exposure.
But we do feel like we can continue to add good new clients based upon the relationships that we have we just got to be -- we're just going to be a little tighter in that regard.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then going back to the Advice &amp; Wealth Management.
There was an industry publication I think that spoke of Ameriprise as the second largest independent broker by commissions from Alternative Investments sold.
I think somebody counted about 20% the segment's total commissions earned coming from Alternative Investments.
And just given some of the problems that some of your peers have faced with the high-commission product I was wondering if you'd be willing to talk about kind of what percentage of the alternative investment commissions come from high-commission products? Well right now it is a small percentage of obviously our revenue and profitability.
But again it's coming from REITs and we've talked about from our standpoint it's -- that we have not suffered the same situations obviously as certainly looking at the quality and what we bring on and our basically compliance processes.
So with -- from that standpoint it is important part of the solution set with our clientele and certainly go through a very elaborate due diligence process to ensure that.
And like I said the revenue contributions is under 5% it's like 3%.
So it's an important solution area and it adds value from that standpoint and it's about the 3% range.
Yes.
And I think if you're talking about like the REIT area it's only a couple percent in our total mix of business across the firm.
I mean of course we have more alternatives that we offer from hedge funds to other types of activities commodities various things like that.
But I think if you're referencing more of REITs it's only a couple percent.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And quick numbers question.
I may have missed it I apologize.
On the $20 billion of brokerage cash balances can you tell us what the current yield is on those? Around 20 basis points.
And our next question comes from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So Walter in your prepared remarks on Protection you talked about long-term care and the fact that you're conducting I think what you characterize as a non-routine review.
Can you just go on to a little more detail in terms of what exactly you will be reviewing? Is it the reserve level? Is it gap versus stat? I mean just any more color on that would be helpful.
Yes.
I think what we're doing right now we're in contact with Genworth as it relates to their announcements and other things like that because they do all the claims and the administration aspect.
They feed the information to us.
And obviously we do -- we're aligned on that information.
We certainly are trying to do our own checks on it.
But we based on their reviews we're cooperating with them to get really the performance aspects they've seen both from claims and other -- to revalidate.
As they looked at what they evaluated for their block how that is applicable to ours and so we are working with them just to get the additional information as it allows us to do the actuarial assessment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess how should we be thinking about this in terms of a potential risk to the company? I mean is it that you might have to boost reserves because Genworth is telling you that they're seeing more aggressive claims or utilization? Or -- I just want to get a sense of what the risk factor is.
Okay.
I understand that.
Yes we think the risk factor is actually very contained because again it's small overall.
But the reality is we have our own checks and we've been looking at it from our standpoint.
There's different characteristics of our block versus theirs.
So we do believe this is a precautionary element to make sure that we are aligned.
Again they're making a major announcement that they did make some changes to their actual assumptions.
We felt it was prudent to work with them to get that applicability to our block.
They did not do it.
And again it's our block and their block.
It's a shared block.
So it is really precautionary but we believe it's very containable and it's not a significant amount if any.
Research Division</strong> And is that something that we're going to learn about sort of in 1Q results because that'll be after they put out their fourth quarter reserve review? Yes we're obviously dependent on their time effort and everything but yes we are hoping to have that within that timeframe.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then I guess for Jim on the retail flows at Columbia I mean you've mentioned that it's work in progress and there's all sorts of -- I think you used the word traction that you're gaining.
It's just really hard to see from the upside how the strategy is progressing.
So is there any more color that you can give us in terms of what is exactly changing there what's different this time and why we should have some comfort that the flows can start to turn positive? Yes I wouldn't think labeling it to get more comfort.
I think what we have been saying and what we've actually been seeing is this: we will continue to have some of the type of outflows from some of the things that we've mentioned to you.
So as an example when we made all the pricing changes in the RIA channel we experienced more of those outflows.
That's starting to slow and turn around and we're starting to see some pickup in the inflow side.
For the ex-parent we experienced more of that even in retail initially as things were changed and now that starting to slow.
It'll still be an outflow but not as material as it was.
And we think we can get some new product out there hopefully over time I think in regard to the intermediary channels we're actually seeing some pick-up in a few of the areas as we get better penetration in some of the channels and get on some of the platforms.
Having said that I think it's been lumpy.
I mean we saw nice improvement in October and November.
We thought it would actually show positive and then December was a little rough month I think for the industry.
From a perspective we still experienced some additional outflows in a particular large fund that we had in the DCO channel that actually sort of masks some of the improvements for some of the other product across the other channels.
So I think with the changes we continue to make with the new leadership we have in there with how we're revamping the way we go to market with our product with the wholesaling with the disciplines we're putting in place we're hoping that we can gain traction with more of our product across more of the channels in 2015.
Of course there's no guarantee.
There's market environment.
There's -- it is what the consumer is or the intermediary is looking based on market conditions.
But we think we have enough good product.
We think that we have a good wholesaling capability and platform that we're applying better.
We think that we're going to bring product to the market better to talk about what that is and what the solution is and what we can provide.
There are some new solutions.
We're coming out like our CARA Fund that I mentioned to you which is a risk parity allocation fund that we think can take some space.
So I think it's going to be a number of things that we can do to gain.
But we're still going to experience some of the outflows from some of the ex-parent ongoing from some of the sub-advisor from one of the particular large funds we have that will continue to bleed a little bit until we get that fully -- more fully turned around and get some other product in the channel.
So I'm not sitting here to predict quarter-by-quarter but I do feel that we can gain some greater traction.
I think Europe can come back again.
I think again it was in strong inflows.
We got hit with a loss of a PM last year but that has stemmed the tide there.
Actually the U.K.
where we lost the PM that has actually turned around pretty quickly for us.
So I think with the ECB doing what they do that can sort of turn around people's appetite back in Europe.
So we'll see.
But I got more high hopes for this year moving better in the trajectory.
I can't predict but hopefully we'll apply more time and attention and hopefully we'll get some better results.
And our last question comes from Tom Gallagher from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A few questions on your Advice &amp; Wealth business.
The -- so I guess the franchisee advisor story has been a really good one.
Just want to understand a little about the outlook as you see it.
How is the recruiting environment right now? Are you still -- would you still expect to grow that channel over the next year or so? I noticed a little bit of a tick down there in terms of number of franchisee advisors.
That's question #1.
And then I guess the margin Walter I think you had said the margin in that channel for this quarter was 19% which is obviously a pretty robust number.
Can you comment a bit about when you are hiring making the new hires of the experienced advisors what is sort of the marginal margin you're seeing there? Is it above or below that 19% level? So let me start with the overall channel then we'll talk to the margin.
Very clearly we feel very good about our franchise channel and the growth of the productivity of that channel.
Now part of it that you're looking at when you just look at the number per se is there is a level of even consolidation going on in our own channel.
As advisors hit a certain points in time they actually don't want to be running the practice as they continue to age at a certain level.
And so what they do is make arrangements with other advisors they sell their practice and then they transition from an advisor to an assistant and then ultimately retire.
And we have some of that going on in our channel across the nation that we sort of help foster and develop.
So part of our attrition or so to speak that we report is part of that activity going on.
The assets don't leave.
The clients don't leave.
But the number on the headcount does adjust.
In addition to that we also have assistants that advisors bring in as junior players in their practice licensed practitioners et cetera.
And sometimes there is a higher rotation of those people just like we do when we bring in new people that we're training and developing in the employee channel.
And so part of that turnover is also in those sort of numbers.
But we feel that the productivity remains in the channel.
The asset growth is good and strong and we feel very good about that channel continuing to be a growing part of the total.
In addition to that we do have the employee channel.
Again with that same adjustments that are occurring we have much more productivity in the channel.
We're bringing in good people that have much higher productivity than the people who are leaving or left.
And the pipeline so the first part of your question that you asked is very good.
We saw it over the third and fourth quarter.
We're bringing in high-quality people that are actually of higher productivities than even previous quarters.
And we see that occurring both in the franchise and the employee channel.
So we feel like we can continue to recruit on an ongoing basis and see quality people.
Walter? Yes on the second question.
From the standpoint of the marginal contribution from a PTI standpoint for the experienced advisors in the franchise and actually in the employee channel are higher than obviously the 19% and our current margin employee channel.
So yes that is accreting on the -- based on the correlated expenses that we associated with that -- with bringing on experienced advisors.
Research Division</strong> And so Walter from just order of magnitude so -- and Jim pointed out that the new hires in the franchisee channel are actually more productive than the average advisor.
What type of margin are you seeing for those new hires let's say by the end of the first year? Is it -- if the average for that channel is 19% is it 25% is it 30%? I just want to get a sense for the grade-in of that and how -- what kind of earnings pick you get as you hire people? So Tom let me correct that.
I think we didn't say -- for instance in the franchise channel we're bringing in good people but we have good strong margins very high productivity in the franchise.
So the people we're bringing in aren't necessarily of even higher margin than that.
I think they're consistent with the type of productivity that we have in the channel.
In the employee channel what I did say is the people we are bringing in have higher productivities and will over time add to that margin and will be higher than the average margin.
But as Walter said a year ago that margin was in the low single digits.
We ended last year with it being now about 10% or so.
And as we add even more productive people and utilize the capacity we have in the employee channel for better productive people that margin will continue to accrete.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
So it's really the employer channel that you're saying is higher okay.
Yes.
Right.
And then the franchisee channel just as we continue to bring in good client flows and good productivity and our advisor productivity increases then that will help with the margin there because that's a very large channel.
It's a very productive channel.
Most of that will come from the productivity improvements continuing in that channel and the use of some of our capabilities to help them do that.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then -- and just one last one on the Property Casualty business.
Can you quantify -- based on the changes that you expect to make can you give us a little bit of quantification what are the levels of rate you're actually submitting for to regulators in that business? So are we looking at double-digit rate? Or some -- any quantification you can give there? And would you expect that book to shrink as you implement the changes? Number one if we reinstate [ph] again depending on both -- as we do the price risk assessment and then you deal with the states that -- within theirs that we will certainly -- we are looking then to get that ratio.
As we have had -- we filed in '14 we had rate increases on Auto of close to 3%.
And this is now being evaluated state-by-state.
We're using the models that we're bringing up.
So the rate increases are going to be a very off.
So I couldn't really give you an average as it relates to because you're getting into weighting again to everything from that standpoint.
So the reality on shrinking the book I don't think the book is going to shrink.
I think we're going to more intelligently manage through the application of the sophisticated models and the other things that we do from an operational standpoint and just extract the better pricing risk return from it.
So that takes time as Jim said.
It just doesn't -- it takes time to work through both the analytics as we roll it the filings and then the realization of it.
Research Division</strong> I would hope your rate is going to be significantly above 3% if we're thinking about '15 [indiscernible] I only gave you 2014.
I gave you price in '14.
I didn't say what was going to happen in '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But no can you give us any indication? Or is it too early? It's too -- because they basically just started through rolling the stage now and those will progress and they're focusing on Auto and then rolling through on Home.
So I can't give you really the rate increases that will take place because they have to do the analytics for each one and then evaluate it on that basis both looking at the new and then the existing block.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
My name is Ellen and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions].
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Alicia Charity.
Ms.
Charity you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial's first quarter earnings call.
On the call with me today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we'll be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear reference to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the company's operations.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today's materials available on our website.
Some statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management's expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today's earnings release our 2014 annual report to shareholders and our 2014 10-K report.
We take no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for our first quarter earnings call.
I'll begin by providing my perspective on the quarter and the progress we are making.
Walter will follow me with a detailed review of the numbers.
Overall Ameriprise had another good quarter and was situated well.
However higher equity market volatility unfavorable foreign exchange and continued low interest rate did effect results as did the long-term care reserves increase.
That said our capital position ability to generate good free cash flow and deploy capital all remained excellent.
For the quarter our operating earnings per share were up 7%.
From a return on equity perspective we continued to deliver.
With a combination of solid business results and significant capital return operating return on equity reached another high.
Excluding AOCI we ended the quarter with operating return on equity of 23.1% and that’s up 230 basis points in the past year.
Assets under management and administration grew 4% to $815 billion from client net inflows and market appreciation and that includes the negative impact of more than $17 billion from foreign exchange.
We remain committed to an effective capital management and maintaining our financial strength as we continue to invest in the business while delivering differentiated shareholder return.
In the first quarter we returned $459 million in share repurchase and dividends.
And yesterday we announced a 16% increase to our regular quarterly dividend and we consistently increased our dividend by double digits over the years.
As we stated we expect to continue to return strongly to [ph] shareholders and have targeted a 90% to 100% range of earnings annually.
In Advice &amp; Wealth Management we are positioned well and are building on our strengths.
We continue to generate good growth.
Operating earnings were $210 million up 16%.
In the first quarter we did experience a little more market volatility.
Overall we are serving more clients and bringing in more client assets with 8% growth in retail assets and an increase of 30% in fee-based advisory asset under management.
And for the quarter advisory net inflows were $2.8 billion.
Advisor productivity also grew again by double digits 11% year-over-year to a record $505 000 per advisor on a trailing 12 month basis.
In terms of advisor recruiting we continue to attract strong candidates and they are increasingly higher producers.
During the quarter another 77 experienced advisors joined Ameriprise.
These advisors relate well to our strong branded advice value proposition and leadership.
As we discussed with you we are working to help advisors grow their practices.
As you know we share both less affluent and affluent clients.
As we move forward we are making a larger commitment to serve more affluent clients who want and need advice.
We are confident in our ability to serve them we believe based on the value that we provide that this will become an even larger percentage of our client base.
We also want to provide comprehensive advice to more Americans.
We know from our research that our confident retirement approach and advice value proposition resonate even more strongly with affluent consumers.
Our brand and reputation appeal to these consumers so this is a long term effort to drive growth.
In addition to the affluent market we are also looking to serve more consumers who are still cumulating well in earnest close to retirement.
In terms of investments for growth advisors are benefiting from our online and paperless office capabilities that are both integrated and time saving.
They are using our digital and social media to create brand awareness for their practices generate leads as well as deepen relationships with current clients.
Overall we are growing nicely in AWM.
Both client and advisor satisfaction remained strong and we are focused on helping advisors expand their client base and grow productivity.
As we move to insurance and annuities we are focused on driving advisor uptake of our solutions while we maintain the differentiated strength of our risk profile.
These are high quality businesses that deliver important benefits to our clients at Ameriprise especially as we expand our Confident Retirement approach serve more consumers.
Year-over-year operating earnings were down but they were items from the current and previous quarter that Walter will discuss.
In terms of the annuity business variable annuity account balances were up slightly on market growth and $1.2 billion in new sales down slightly from a year ago and consistent with the industry.
That said we have seen a pickup in sales of VAs without living benefits reflecting good wholesaling activity and a positive reaction to educating clients and advisors about the advantages these products can provide.
Sales of VAs without living benefits represent about a third of total VA sales in the quarter up from 25% a year ago.
There is really no change in fixed annuities given the current rate environment.
In protection we continue to work with our advisors on the benefits of insurance for our clients.
Life and health care sales were down a bit year-over-year which we believe is also consistent with the industry.
Our overall client retention in these solutions continue to be very good which helps enhance the long term nature of the Ameriprise client and advisory relationship.
In auto and home we built a strong business with our affinity relationships and are pleased to have renewed the Costco contract.
They are an important client and we will continue to offer their customers excellent value.
We are focused on improving overall auto and home returns through changes in pricing underwriting and claims management to get back to historical performance levels.
We are taking the right steps to strengthen the business and believe we can properly grow and serve more clients as we move forward.
With asset management we are executing our strategy as we go to market more globally.
Our assets under management for this business are just over $0.5 trillion reflecting significant headwind of more than $17 billion of foreign exchange that I mentioned earlier.
Financially we generated good operating earnings of a $191 million in the quarter and have compelled [ph] adjusted net pretax operating margins of nearly 40%.
In terms of where we are putting our time and attention we are investing and aligning resources to leverage the strength of both Columbia and Threadneedle.
As you saw we introduced our new global brand Columbia Threadneedle Investments a few weeks ago.
The new brand represents the combined resources capabilities and reach of both firms.
Moving to a global brand was a natural next step of the business as our teams have been working together for more than two years for the benefit of our clients.
In third party institutional we have further aligned the resources to run it globally.
Our current pipeline is quite strong as we continue to build on the traction we gained in 2014.
We are looking for our institutional business to be a growing and larger part of our overall asset management business as we move forward.
Though we had outflows in the quarter they were mainly driven by funding delays caused by market volatility.
We are expecting a number of large mandates to fund over the next few quarters.
Part of our future growth will come from the solutions space.
We continue investing in talent product and capabilities and in building our large base of assets under management and we see this as a good opportunity.
During the quarter we began to gain traction in our fairly new Columbia adaptive risk allocation fund.
In regards to retail we made a number of changes in U.S.
intermediary distribution.
We are beginning to see positive signs from our segmentation strategy and enhanced business intelligence efforts to improve wholesaler productivity.
And we are better aligning product marketing and sales support functions to gain share.
We have seen some improvement.
However it’s been obscured by the elevated outflows in the Acorn Fund.
Our investment team is taking steps to address the fund’s performance but we expect continued outflow pressure here.
In the UK and Europe retail flows are beginning to improve with the outlook of Europe becoming more favorable with their larger program of quantitative easing.
And in Asia we are generating good performance in funds we launched last year.
And now that we are nearing our one year anniversary we are starting to garner some interest.
Our investment teams in the U.S.
and internationally are generating strong equity and fixed income investment performance across a broad range of products both domestically and internationally.
So in asset management we are continuing our efforts to drive flows and align resource to lever the strength of Columbia and Threadneedle.
Overall with regard to Ameriprise we are generating good performance in our asset light businesses and very strong cash flow.
This gives us the ability to continue to invest in our business as well as return to shareholders through continuation of our buyback program as well as increases in our dividend.
And with our strong capital base we also have the ability to continue to look for small acquisitions that can add to our strategy and complement the company.
Before I close I want to take a minute to comment on the DOL’s fiduciary rule proposal.
Like many of the firms across the financial services industry serving the retirement market we are carefully reviewing the proposal’s hundreds of pages to understand its objectives and potential implications.
There are a number of steps that need to take place before any changes will be made including the 75 day common period and subsequent review by the administration.
We won’t advocate [ph] for the importance of access to financial advice for all Americans and providing clients’ choice and products and services they use to reach their goals.
Our high client satisfaction and long-term relationships stem from this comprehensive personal approach.
In fact Ameriprise already operates as a fiduciary under the SEC standard for advice when we are acting in an investment advisory capacity.
We have established policies and procedures to support our clients and advisors including extensive and appropriate disclosures which puts us in a good position.
We are at the starting point of the rule making process and any final rule would impact many firms serving more than 100 million American saving for retirement.
Therefore we must take into account both the intended and the unintended consequences the details do matter.
We want to make sure that the creation of a new third standard would not be overly burdensome for clients and would work with the existing SEC and FINRA standards.
We have dealt with regulatory changes before and we will work with our trade associations and other stakeholders throughout this process to advocate for our clients with the goal of most appropriately satisfying the DOL’s objectives.
In closing as we execute our strategy for growth I believe we can continue to navigate the markets deliver a terrific experience for our clients and advisors while generating good return for our shareholders.
With that I would like to hand things over to Walter for a detailed review of the numbers.
Thank you Jim.
As Jim indicated Ameriprise delivered another solid quarter financial results in the face of a fairly volatile market environment.
Let me provide some additional context.
Equity market volatility was elevated at the start of the year.
Interest rates also moved a lot during the quarter with the 10 year treasury rate starting the year at 2.17% falling to 1.64% at the end of January and settling at 1.92% at the end of the quarter and the strength of the dollar did impact AUM and earnings at Threadneedle.
These environmental factors impacted revenue and earnings directly as well as influence activity levels with retail and institutional clients.
With that as context let’s look at the results in the quarter.
Operating net revenue was $2.9 billion up 3% from last year.
Operating EPS was $2.18 and included a few one-time items.
We increased reserves on a long-term care block by $0.11 per share.
Additionally there were a variety of smaller items netting to a negative $0.02 per share that we detailed in the earnings release.
Excluding these one-time items operating EPS was $2.31 up 13% from last year.
And operating return on equity reached a new record level of 23.1% which is above our target range of 19% to 23%.
Turning to slide four you will see that our business mix shift continues to evolve.
Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management represents 64% of pretax operating earnings this quarter and as we grow we expect the mix shift will continue and should reach 70%.
We continue to expand margins in Advice &amp; Wealth Management reaching 17.1% this quarter.
Margins in the employee channel were over 10% in the quarter and were over 18% in franchise channel.
This demonstrates the strength of our model the success of our strategies to grow this business and the opportunity we have to drive profitability even higher.
Asset management margins were a solid 39.7% in the quarter on an adjusted basis reflecting continued good expense discipline.
Let’s turn to the segments on slide five Advice &amp; Wealth Management business is performing quite well across key growth and activity metrics and delivered solid financial results particularly given the market conditions.
Revenue is up 7% to $1.2 billion with good client flows and market appreciation partially offset by slower sales in a couple of product areas and the impact from volatile markets.
We kept G&amp;A expenses flat year-over-year.
This resulted in earnings of $210 million up 16% and a record margin of 17.1% up 130 basis points from last year.
It should be noted in a sequential basis results were impacted by having too fewer fee days this quarter than the fourth quarter which equates to approximately $6 million of PTI.
Overall the business continues to deliver consistent good results demonstrating the strength of our business model.
Turning to asset management on slide six operating net revenue was flat at $807 million as the benefit of market appreciation was offset by the impact of higher fee outflows from the Acorn fund Threadneedle’s U.S.
equity [indiscernible] as well as $15 million unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.
Expenses were down 1% to $660 million reflecting lower distribution expense and continued good G&amp;A expense control even with the additional relocation expense associated with the move to our new office space in London.
This resulted in pretax operating earnings in the quarter of $191 million up 4% from last year.
Excluding the foreign exchange impact and the office relocation expense pretax operating earnings would have been up 8%.
It should be noted that on sequential basis results were impacted by having two fewer fee days this quarter than the fourth quarter which equates to approximately $8 million of PTI in the segment.
Turning to flows on next slide we had net outflows of $5.8 billion in the quarter.
Retail net outflows were $3 billion with outflows concentrated in a number of areas we have previously discussed namely $2.3 billion in the Acorn fund and approximately $600 million from the former parent affiliated distribution and a sub advisor.
Excluding these items we are seeing some positive trends sequentially.
Retail flows in the UK and Europe improved following a slow fourth quarter and we also had a large flow into our Asian Pacific fund.
We are increasing awareness and beginning to see traction with our new Colombia Adaptive Risk Allocation Fund and we are optimistic that momentum will continue and we continue to make progress to improve retail distribution in the United States.
The institutional business had $2.8 billion of net outflows in the quarter.
Let me provide some additional detail on the two reasons we saw a higher level of institutional outflows than in recent periods.
First we had approximately $1.8 billion of outflows from low basis point insurance mandates in the UK.
This includes a normal level of [indiscernible] outflows at $800 million.
Additionally it includes $950 million of outflows from [indiscernible] associated with asset reallocation to funds we do not offer.
However we expect to cover some of those assets later in the year into a higher fee product so net impact of these flows should be neutral on a revenue basis for the year.
Second; we had outflows in third party mainly driven by a slowdown in the funding of new mandates.
We expected several large mandates to fund in the quarter that will push back to the second quarter.
Additionally we have redemptions in both high yield and short duration at the beginning of the year that we would expect to get back in the later part of the year.
Turning to annuities on slide eight; Annuities pretax operating earnings were $172 million down 2% from last year.
However the prior year results include a significant benefit from clients moving to our managed volatility funds and the mean reversion benefit was similar in both periods.
Without these items underlying annuities earnings were up 15%.
Variable annuity pretax earnings grew 22% from a year ago to a $132 million without the benefit of clients moving to managed volatility funds and mean reversions in both periods these were driven by higher account values.
Fixed annuity pretax operating earnings decreased 10% to $28 million as account values declined.
Lapse rates on LIBOR [ph] expectations following the re-pricing of our five year guarantee block that are now coming out of surrender charge period.
Given the current interest environment there are limited new sales and as a result this book is expected to gradually and earnings will decline.
Let’s turn to the protection segment on slide nine.
Protection pretax operating earnings were $51 million in the quarter impacted by $32 million claim reserves strengthening for long term care.
As we announced last quarter we conducted a long term care review of our claims reserve based on additional information received from Genworth the firm that reinsures half of our long term care book and administers all of our claims.
As you know this is a small closed block with no new sales since 2003.
We have not seen adverse claims experience in the book and have been making appropriate premium increases since 2004.
At the end of the quarter we had $2.2 billion of statutory reserves net of reinsurance with about $400 million in claims reserve and the remainder in the active life reserves.
Based on the information provided by Genworth management’s best estimate of a claim reserve resulted in a $32 million reserve increase.
The most significant drivers were updates to the benefit utilization rates and claims termination rates partially offset by a benefit from higher discount rate.
After reviewing the analysis we received from Genworth we decided to engage a third party to validate their analysis.
This review may result in a fine-tuning of our reserve and we anticipate that it will be completed in the second quarter.
Excluding the long-term care serve increase the life and health businesses performed in-line with expectations.
We saw marginally higher claims than we have in recent quarters though still within expected ranges.
The auto and home business had a modest operating loss of $4 million in the quarter.
We are booking reserves for the 2015 accident year at a level consistent with the 2014 accident year loss ratio assumption we changed in the last quarter.
The business was also impacted by $12 million of cat losses of which $4 million was related to the prior year.
As we discussed last quarter we are phasing in changes to our pricing to risk models in addition to modifications to underwriting claims and operations.
We are seeing early signs of improvement specifically at targeted slowdown in sales across all product lines.
For the full year we expect marginal profitability for auto and home with a more meaningful improvement to earnings in 2016.
Let’s turn to the balance sheet on slide 11 our balance sheet remains strong with approximately $2.5 billion of excess capital and our risk-based capital ratio is estimated to be 630%.
We continue to return over 100% of operating earnings to shareholders with $459 million distributed through dividends and share repurchase in the quarter.
We remain committed to continuing to raise our dividend and announced a 16% increase yesterday.
This brings our dividend payout ratio to the high 20% range.
With that we will take your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
The first question is from Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
I guess we could start on department of labor issue are there any specific buckets of revenues that you would be focused on as sort of more potentially at risk as a result of changes and I guess do you expect there could be any impact on sales of either alternative products or things like mutual funds or other products that you manufacture through the advice and wealth management channel? The department of labor as you know there is hundreds and hundreds of pages and there are level of areas [ph] exemptions et cetera.
So we as the industry are shifting through that to fully understand what they are looking to accomplish and with that how you can continue to work with your clients against their needs that they have.
Explicitly within from what we have been able to reach so far there are certain things excluded like things like REITs et cetera that they wouldn’t sold and qualified accounts.
In our business REIT as an example makes up a very small percentage of what we do and we have the ability as an example since we work more holistically with the client if that’s still a need we could probably deal with it by offering it in the non-qualified section of their investment asset.
So there are certain things like that that they are saying at the outset are precluded.
Many other products like mutual funds et cetera there are exemptions for as long as you have appropriate disclosures et cetera as we are currently reading it but it’s still too early to really tell and I think us and many other companies across all the industries in financial services who deal with retirement will be in some way affected by it and what we want and I think many of the companies in the industry and the associations want is that we are able to continue to work with clients as their needs are requiring and appropriately do so.
Okay thanks that’s helpful and one follow-up question on long term care.
I was just wondering why you chose to only look at assumptions and reserves for the disabled life reserve.
I guess wouldn’t changing assumptions on the disabled life reserve also affect the active life reserve which I think we have seen with other companies such as Genworth where there has been an impact of the changes in assumptions on both.
Okay well number one the information on the claims reserve is supplied by -- based on information supplied by Genworth.
If you look at the active there are many assumptions that go into it and including claims that we have been managing and evaluating over time [indiscernible] and we also factor in terminations factor in price increases over longer term.
So we feel that reserve is actually adequately looked at it and looked in the light of the situation information we have gotten from Genworth.
So we felt the only adjustment that was needed was in the claims reserve.
Got it so you did sort of factor in -- you made no changes to the active life reserve but you did sort of contemplate the new data relative to the assumptions that you are making and is that…? That’s correct we have been factoring in the actual claims and looking over the full life of it we have been doing that so there was no -- including the upper elements like you said termination and price increase and other things that go into it and we felt that reserve is adequate.
Okay thank you.
The next question is from Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley Great thanks good morning.
Just to follow on the DOL and the fiduciary standards I guess in addition to the pay pressure and [indiscernible] proprietary product sales some of it is concerned about higher compliance costs just hope you can discuss whether that’s also a factor.
Yes again as we said first of all I think relative in the industry we are probably one of the best prepared to deal with fiduciary because we are very actives fiduciary in much of our client activities today under the SEC standard.
I think what I have mentioned in my opening remarks was that this establishes a third standard and so with a third standard of course you are going to have additional compliance and figuring out how the third standard works perfectly with the first two standards and we are hoping that the regulators and the people who are over sighting this appropriately would take that into account and figure out how the regulations wouldn’t be overly complex to deal with and that would be appropriate and operate with each other in an appropriate fashion.
So having said that I think that’s yet to be determined and I think that’s part of the work that needs to be done.
But having said that as with any regulatory change of this extent there is going to be increased level of compliance and increased costs to get those things implemented and executed.
So I would definitely say that there will be increased compliance costs.
On the other side I would say at least today Ameriprise already operates with much of the compliance and supervision.
We have the compliance resources already in place but it will still increase the levels and so what you are doing now is a bit different and applies in a more special fashion to this particular activity.
Okay thanks that’s helpful.
Second question just on advisory you talked about the few days impacting results and guessing that’s purely an impact on revenues doesn’t impact margins is that correct? Also it is possible that whether it will impact client activity and if so we should expect some catch up of that business in the second quarter? You are right it doesn’t impact margin but doesn’t impact PTI and again we do believe there was too few days were aligned with the activity we have seen in the industry and we do believe that we are on track and we should recover as again markets and things of that nature.
So there was to Walter’s point of two fewer three days that did impact the PTI that he gave you the numbers on.
What I would say is a level of volatility also a level of weather.
It’s hard to break that out and clarify it but as you would imagine January was also a very difficult weather month for many parts of the country.
That would have impacted advisors as well as how they served the clients.
So we don’t necessarily put that in we just saw that activity did slow a bit in the first quarter not so much.
We saw it come back stronger in February and March but January was the slowest of the months.
Okay that’s great.
Thanks.
The next question is from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning everybody and thanks for taking my question.
I have few questions first.
Going back to the Department of Labor proposal I think there have been -- there’s been speculation that it would also create maybe an increase in potential losses down the road and wanted to hear your thoughts on that and maybe how you can preempt some of that realizing that these are still early days? Yes again it’s hard to say exactly what it would derive in the end.
As I said it’s very important to know both the intended and the unintended consequences of anything of this substantial.
And let’s remember there is a $100 million Americans being served here by all types of companies well they be distributors or manufacturers all types and remember it covers every one of these.
So if you are selling any product into a qualified account and yes so it’s not just relevant for someone who has a financial advisor it could be direct players it could be product companies et cetera and so I think one of the things that we the industry and many of other participants in the associations are looking at is what are those activities and does it qualify [ph].
So yes you can have additional disclosure the question is it’s unclear if you have that disclosure if you work and operate within the exemption rules what that may result in and of course those are things that are undetermined at that this point in time.
But again it’s like that with any regulatory change we work through it we figure out what those things are appropriate and we ensure that we supervise against it.
But we have to get clear on what that exactly is.
All right then turning back to our long term care so I think you mentioned on the call that in the script that against the assumption changes you also had an offset from an increase in the discount rate used and of course I guess it’s a little counter intuitive just given the rate environment today.
So I was wondering if you can give us little more color on what led to that.
But second can you give us any sense of what was the proportion of the change was there any way to quantify that? What we do is when we are reviewing is we realized that we were using a rate discount rate was lower than our asset earning rate that’s pretty much used in the industry so we basically adjusted that little over than our asset earning rate to be aligned with the industry.
Then on the proportions you should figure it out on that basis it’s about somewhere near around $15 [ph] million.
And the same thing was applicable to our GI [ph] because the accounting was treated the same way and we took that one that discount rate up obviously it’s less than the long term care because of the length of duration of investment.
And can you give us any sense of how much of a change in the discount rate that was was it 25 basis points 50? It was approximately almost 200 basis points for the long term care portion.
The next question is John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning everybody.
My question on Advice and Wealth management first is I recognized there were two fewer fee days and that had some impact on revenues but I think you did also mentioned some softness.
Can you give us a sense more what kind of impact you feel like the softness I assume that softness was really more on the insurance sales side but maybe I am wrong because your overall fee rate did come down quite a bit quarter-over-quarter even if I adjust for the number of days.
So I just wanted to get a sense for that and then relatedly you are doing a terrific job managing G&amp;A to be flat year-over-year especially in light of investments and continued ongoing recruiting.
I am just wondering if you think we should expect that G&amp;A can remain flat as we look forward on a year-over-year basis or if we ought to expect some increase there? No it's Walter you should expect the G&amp;A to stand in that range.
Certainly we will gauge it depending on the environment but certainly we have a focus on scope [ph] providing to our clients but we are very focused on maintaining the G&amp;A so that's a reasonable range.
It could 1% or 2% but it -- certainly we are very conscious of the G&amp;A management.
And on the slowdown it is in insurance and it is in other parts non-traded REITs but it is something that we believe in the latter part we will see a pickup and we do believe the volatility like I said it was industry aligned and we anticipate that we will see improvement going forward.
And then Walter just a quick follow up on that G&amp;A in terms of it remaining flat should can we think about that as flat on a dollar basis with the first quarter results or flat year-over-year? I would tend to say I would look more on a total year basis quarterly you get your seasonality coming through.
All right that's helpful.
And then just second question on the asset management side margins are really solid at around 40% adjusted without a significant change in the outlook for flows though can we really expect that that margin can get a whole lot better from here? I think the margin is that rate which is again we're talking about a pretty high rate in the high 30s almost 40% and yes we are feeling the impact like we talked about the U.S equity that’s flowing off from the UK and the Acorn so there is some pressure but I think the margin will stay in that range.
And you mentioned a drag on EPI from FX I just didn't catch the number in your prepared remarks if you can just follow up with that? No I didn't give it so but it's $4 million or $5 million.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
The next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Wonderful hey good morning everyone.
So a couple of questions I guess starting with Advice &amp; Wealth Management business it’s really just kind of a follow up on the last point.
When we look at the distribution line clearly there is a lot of kind of market-based assets or revenue sources in there.
So I was hoping you can kind of help us isolate the decline quarter-over-quarter that came predominantly from the transactional part of the business kind of the pure commission stuff and sounded like it’s non-traded REITs maybe some annuities.
But I was wondering if you could help us isolate that and back on the outlook I was getting down 10% or 11% quarter-over-quarter I was just wondering if you could provide more color there? Sure.
It was in the VA and the REIT line non-traded REITs and with the non-traded REITs we believe it's timing because there are new regulations out about disclosure which we are working through with our advisors which we believe in the back half of the year we will pick up on that.
And I guess given the increased scrutiny on non-traded REIT product in general and I appreciate it's still obviously very early in the Department of Labor conversation but I guess what gives you confidence that the financial advisory industry just doesn’t start pulling back from that product ahead of time given potential risks down the road? Okay if you look at our track record and non-REITs is only the diligence we put through it and the returns it’s giving to our clients the non-traded REITs are an important part of retirement it well it has liquidity elements which are certainly fit in to our time and aspect to it it gives a return characteristic that's quite good.
And so I think again we have to study it there is as Jim said we have different elements we can put in but it’s an important product and it's worked very well for our clients.
But Alex to the point reference I think again it's another product a type of alternative product et cetera that should only be a small part of anyone's portfolio and that's the way we utilize our advisors utilize it with their clients and it just complements some of the income streams that they are looking for.
So as again I mean it's only a few percent for us in our total activities and you know if that was to change and I don't think it would be that material to us and we would look for other products that would satisfy those similar objectives.
Yeah no I agree with that point just kind of curious from an industry perspective how financial advisors could react to this ahead of kind of finalized regulation.
Staying I guess with AWM segment and the department of labor I was wondering if you guys could help us with a couple of numbers A; it would be helpful I think to better understand what percentage of your revenues as a whole in AWM comes from a relationship that’s pretty fiduciary standard.
I know you said it’s a bulk of it but I was wondered you had a number.
I would say that we have a strong part of it probably majority a little over majority of where we do operate in a fiduciary standard with the assets that we have.
I mean we mentioned that there is a 180 some odd billion of assets under management there those are all within a fiduciary.
We also provide financial planning and advice complement to that against the entire client’s portfolio activities.
And so I think it’s a reasonable portion of what we do already today and it’s a growing portion as our advisors continue to look at more holistically how they help their clients satisfy their objectives.
So again I think we are well situated for any continuing and we were very supportive with the SEC move to one larger fiduciary standard that would be more appropriate in how firms like us and others should operate.
The question is when you get a combination of three different things going on which we operate into both the fiduciary standard under the SEC the FINRA standards for brokers and commission-based activities now you overlay in a third standard and that’s really the complication of how all those three work together and what role each regulator plays and how they play it.
Got it understood.
And then switching gears to asset management business for a minute two questions there I guess one on the numbers side I was wondering if you could size the mandates that are yet to be funded in the second quarter sorry if I missed out but it sounded like you had some slippage there? And then second question there just broadly when Jim your comments earlier about your business potentially shifting more towards institutional just given the successes as you guys are having in Institutional Columbia and continued kind of struggles on the retail front so as that business continues to evolve and move towards institutional how would the margins in that segment be impacted overtime? So I think what -- so let me answer the first one.
I think what we saw and again I can’t say it was something abnormal is we saw a number of institutions that we won mandates and we thought that they would fund within the first quarter as we were predicting from the fourth quarter but because of the level of volatility that was experienced during the first quarter as you saw our interest rates back going down and then backing up and in fact down again people put a number of those things on hold so to speak.
They didn’t say they were changing what that is they just said that they were going to fund them a bit later.
So I do believe that we expected a bit more of that come in in the first quarter and will come in over the next few quarters we think because no one has changed what they are looking to do it’s just the timing of them doing it.
And so again we still feel good; the pipeline is as strong as ever our win rates are good.
So nothing has changed from what we were seeing in the ‘14 period other than the timing is what I am getting from our institutional business.
In regard to how we would like to grow that very clearly we have a large institutional business today it’s not as though we are not looking to continue to grow the retail.
It’s just that we think there are a level of activities as we now have a more global platform we are working with between Columbia and Threadneedle we are increasing the number and level of activity that we do not just here in the States or in UK and Europe but to the Sovereigns to Middle East and Asia and we think overtime particularly as we add solutions and that could be a growing part of the business.
Now with that if you can grow that institutional business a bit more there are good margins if you can get continued scale in a number of those product mandates which we think we can.
So I don’t think that that would lower our margins.
I think it actually would be complementary for us and leverage a bit more of the infrastructure and investment teams we already have.
Sure great thanks so much.
The next question is from Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I had a follow up on the institutional flows you mentioned the pipeline’s very strong there were some delays in funding.
I guess you had $800 million of third party institutional outflows in the quarter based on what kind of you're seeing now would you expect those third party flows to be positive in institutional for the balance of the year? Yes I think as we look at the third party yes we would and I think Walter mentioned that of the institutional outflows we experienced $1.8 billion and one was almost the billion from Liverpool Victoria [ph] which is one of the large insurance mandates that we have that was just a few basis points and it was appropriate for them as they did their reallocation from it but they already gave us a nod to some other product that we already have that they will be funding over the next few quarter at a much higher fee rate that would more than offset that loss.
Zurich [ph] is the typical -- Zurich activities again basis points.
So what we are looking at is for the third party business to be an inflow this year consistent with what we are seeing as a trend line last year and that's what we are still calling for at this point.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
And then shifting to recruiting it was pretty strong in the quarter can you just give an update on how the recruiting environment is these days and also what has been the mix of recruits into the employer versus franchise channel in I guess in recent quarters? So recruiting continues to very good for us.
As we said we added 77 new people.
They were very good productivity in both channels.
We are seeing higher levels of productivity from the people that we're recruiting and the pipeline continues to look good for us.
We are getting probably of the mix I think a bit more has gone now into the employee platform and we continue to do probably relative basis based on the production we're bringing in.
So I would say it's probably 50-50 but we are getting very strong production increases and very good ones into the employee channel.
Okay great.
Thank you.
The next question is from Eric Berg with RBC.
Thanks very much and good morning to everyone.
I am still trying to clarify why it is that you are already under a fiduciary standard and from my question I mean this in my sense that as a general statement meaning there are going to be exceptions FINRA regulated registered reps [ph] or registered reps are regulated by FINRA and they are broker dealer in this case Ameriprise is broker dealer and that there are generally not subject to a Fiduciary standard but rather there’s an ability [ph] standard.
So how does it come to pass that you are already under a fiduciary standard? So you are correct in how we are regulated by FINRA on the rep business that we do as part of the broker dealer and commission-based activities but as an investment advisor we were managing client's money under an ADV under the SEC we are an investment advisor and therefore we have to and we are governed under the fiduciary rule to operate in the best interest of our clients rather than a suitability role.
And just so that you can I have one more question after this of an unrelated nature but just to build on your answer when you say we do you mean Ameriprise or its advisors and in particular do you happen to know whether an advisor can be at once a registered rep and a registered investment advisor or must the advisor choose? Okay so our advisors operate under our investment advisory charter with the SEC.
They are both they can work in both standards because of how we set up our compliance and based on the activities that they currently do we supervise them appropriately and we ensure that for each one they operate with the correct supervision and compliance and meet those standards.
Okay.
Separately just a quick one on Threadneedle I think you said a couple of times in the course of the call that in contrast to Columbia which enjoyed progress in the quarter there was a little bit of I guess you said a setback at Threadneedle in the United States.
What is different about Threadneedle’s operations here that would produce a different outcome for it than what we are seeing out of Columbia.
Eric it’s Walter.
I think may be let me clarify it when I said U.S.
it is U.S.
Equity they manage a fund that was called U.S.
Equity Fund that the -- basically the team left when we had run off that was what I was referring to.
It was for -- there are the PMs for the U.S.
Equity Fund that they sell overseas.
And what happened was there a change it was implied that there was a change in the…? Last year the team left and we have been building back teams hence we had basically redemptions which we talked about.
Okay so this is the sort of the ongoing effect of the residual effect of what happened last year.
What Walter has mentioned is last year we had those assets.
A part of that team left and therefore we suffered a level of redemptions in the first few quarters of last year.
That has completely slowed.
We have part of that PM build back for person who were there in part of the team and we have added more resources.
So that’s working well now.
What Walter was talking about is the year-over-year effects on the redemptions that occurred a year ago.
Thank you.
Operator The next question is from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Thanks good morning.
I wanted to go back to the DOL one more time if I could.
Just based on your reading of the proposals is there anything in there that suggests distribution of proprietary product whether its mutual funds or annuities or even life insurance through your channel could be at risk? Again we are sifting through the 700 pages but from our early read on this there are exemptions as consistent with any other product sale including for products that have revenue share and et cetera that you can meet those exemptions and they are allowed.
We fully today just [ph] and clarity on this is part of the importance of what we already do is to meet the various standards of both FINRA and the SEC today we sell our product like every other product on the platform and let’s say our mutual funds compensations exactly the same.
There is no different incentives there is no different fee arrangements and what we charge in the various loads and non-loads et cetera.
So we feel very comfortable that Columbia product as an example can continue to be sold as with our annuities.
The only question on the annuity front as one had raised is can they be allowed in non-qualified and in qualified accounts? And we think again I think if you are thinking about things with living benefits and those guarantees that are very important for the clients who get assured income in the future.
So again those might be very much allowed with the exemptions as appropriately done.
So we don’t have a concern about the proprietary and different than any other products sold on the platforms.
And remember Ameriprise even though we have a large advisor base whether they be direct players all those platforms and they have their own product on them or even any one of the other houses all have the similar mix of products.
Some of them are proprietary some of them are networked [ph] in but again everyone would have to meet similar standards.
We feel very comfortable because we fully disclose everything today as we should and there is no variation in how we market or sell them.
Okay just following up on the annuity point you have been highlighting your shift in terms of new sales away from living benefit products.
It seems to me if we are moving towards an environment where the benefit of the annuities is -- comes into greater focus I mean do you anticipate a reversal of that where going forward more of your sales will actually come from living benefit products? Well I would say again we have a nice mix that we would like to your point and very very clearly would like to grow the portion that’s non-living benefit and we think there is very good value for that including with the benefits from a tax perspective for a client and also the type of product in there to generate income that’s tax beneficial.
And so we would probably again just gear more of that as we do today to the non-qualified portion of the clients’ accounts.
One of the things that I think we continue to look at is we don't just serve qualified separate from non-qualified.
We look at holistically how we help a client achieve their retirement their income level that they need of the allocation of their various assets that's tax preferred versus not those are all real value clients get from working with advisors.
It's like if you remove an advisor it’s like removing any of the professional you may work with you could so treat yourself for medicine or doctor or even your tax attorney or your lawyer but it's not advisable.
Part of helping clients is not just that they can get a product that is low cost the issue is how do you use that product when do you put in when do you maintain it the biggest issues with loss of assets is the individual behavior around managing those assets.
So they get frightened at the wrong time they invest at the wrong time.
They don't look at it and they write probably in more objective fashion because there's still a lot of behavior motion involved.
So we think again we understand what the DOL is looking to achieve we hope and just want that to be in the best interest of clients.
We just want to make sure that clients can be served as best as they can.
We think a holistic way of doing that would be continue to be very beneficial but I think the industry is going to have as they go through this as you'll find each industry participant will be impacted in some way and will have to deal it.
Yes.
That's helpful.
And maybe last numbers question just bigger picture you've talked about your progress towards the 70% earnings contribution from asset management and advise and wealth management just wondering if we kind of look forward a little bit longer ultimately where do you see the mix in terms of segments kind of settling out? I think what Walter mentioned I think is a very fair thing.
It's again you know we look out for the next periods or two and we are saying we'll get from the 64 to 70.
I actually believe overtime again as we continue to grow these businesses that we are investing in it will be much higher than 70% overtime not because the insurance and annuities aren’t good businesses but again they are only a part of the solution set that we only market as part of our client base.
Asset management we're looking to grow more fully external to our own channel as well as in our channel.
So there is a growth beyond that if we are successful.
And then the advice and wealth management business as example we look at holistically managing more client assets with more advisors and so it's just natural that it will be a part of that solution set but it's not going to be the majority of that solution set.
Right.
So maybe 80-20 is the…? Yeah yeah I think that would be reasonable to assume as we look out.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q2 2015 earnings call.
My name is Vivien and I'll be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Alicia Charity.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial's second quarter earnings call.
On the call with me today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we'll be glad to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the company's operations.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today's materials available on our website.
Some statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management's expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today's date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today's earnings release our 2014 Annual Report to shareholders and our 2014 10-K report.
We take no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it over to Jim.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining us for our second quarter earnings call.
This morning I'll provide my perspective on the quarter and the progress we're making in the business.
And Walter will follow to discuss our financials.
The company is performing well in a more challenging market environment.
We're delivering meaningful results across a number of dimensions to mark a good second quarter and an overall first half of the year.
However we still have work to do in a few areas that I'll discuss.
As you know equity market volatility did pick up in the quarter.
The strong dollar has also been a headwind in terms of foreign exchange translation and asset management and we have the ongoing pressure of low interest rates.
We also had the benefit of the long term care reserve release.
However this was offset by higher weather-related impacts in Auto &amp; Home which Walter will address.
Revenue growth in the quarter reflected a more volatile market environment but we remain very much focused on executing our growth plans and managing expenses as we continue to invest in the business and return capital to shareholders.
We're consistently generating good free cash flow growing earnings and returning to shareholders at a significant level while maintaining our excellent capital position.
For the quarter operating earnings per share increased 12% compared to last year.
Excluding certain items EPS increased 15%.
In terms of return on equity an important measure for us we continue to deliver at a differentiated level.
ROE increased to 23.5%.
This is up 180 basis points from last year and marks another record high.
Assets under management and administration were up slightly to $811 billion as asset growth was offset by the unfavorable foreign exchange translation of $12 billion.
Overall we're growing our fee-based earnings driving the ongoing shift in our business mix.
Let's move to the business segments.
In Advice &amp; Wealth Management we're continuing to generate good earnings with strong margin.
Client flows were very strong and asset levels hit a record high at more than $450 billion up over $18 billion over last year.
We're generating good inflows into fee-based investment advisory accounts with inflows of over $3 billion up 9% in the quarter.
Our investment advisory platform is one of the largest in the industry and a consistent growth driver for Ameriprise.
We continue to get good uptake from our advisor capabilities we're investing in such as our eFile Delivery and our Money Movement System.
These capabilities help advisors share information more easily and process business faster.
It's freeing up their time to focus on serving their existing clients more comprehensively.
This was one of our best quarters for recruiting.
We're bringing in more productive advisors in a very competitive marketplace with 93 new experienced advisors joining the firm in the second quarter with strong average productivity per recruit across both channels.
And our ongoing pipeline also looks strong.
As we've shared previously we continue to seek to serve more of the mass affluent and affluent markets and we see opportunity in two areas: people that are accumulating assets as well as those who are transitioning to retirement.
Our Confident Retirement approach generates higher satisfaction deeper relationships more assets and higher referral rates.
In fact for the affluent satisfaction rates we're earning with clients served through Confident Retirement are some of the highest I've seen.
Based on the results we've seen there is more we can achieve as more of our advisors begin to adopt a simplified and engaging approach.
Now we're expanding Confident Retirement for wealth builders people who are in the accumulation phase.
This expanded approach has proven effective in our initial consumer research as well as with our advisor palette we tested in the quarter leading to nice lifts in both productivity and flows.
We plan to roll it out nationally to our entire field force beginning in the fall and through next year.
Also in the fall we're kicking off a new brand and advertising platform and we're shooting the ads for it this week and will be working closely with advisors to take advantage of the campaign in their local markets.
I feel good about its potential to engage our advisors clients and prospects in continuing to tell our story as well as demonstrate the benefits of working with Ameriprise.
We're also enhancing our digital presence in the Ameriprise website incorporating responsive design to make it easier for consumers to access their information from multiple types of devices.
As a result of these and other efforts our advisors continue to grow productivity which increased 9% year-over-year to a new record of $512 000 over a 12-month basis.
Overall we're delivering nice growth and profitability across the business with strong opportunity for further growth.
In regard to Annuities and Protection year-over-year operating earnings were down in these businesses but there are a number of items from both the current and previous quarter that Walter will discuss.
In terms of Annuities variable annuity account balances were relatively flat but that was largely due to outflows in our closed book.
Within Ameriprise we had good sales growth up nearly 10% from a year ago and we're seeing nice traction from the introduction of two new living benefit riders in the quarter.
We also continued to see strong adoption of variable annuities without living benefits reflecting good wholesaling activity and a positive reaction to helping clients and advisors understand the advantages these products can provide.
This has contributed to a good and moderate shift in the mix of variable sales products without guarantees.
Sales of VAs without living benefits represented about a third of total VA sales in the quarter.
There's essentially no change in fixed annuities given the current rate environment.
In Protection we continue to work with our advisors on the benefits and insurance for our clients.
Life &amp; Healthcare sales were up 10% from a year ago with continued strength in Indexed UL.
And our overall client retention in these solutions remained high.
This helps enhance the long-term nature of the Ameriprise client-advisor relationship.
We're simplifying marketing and sales materials processing new business more efficiently and enhancing our digital capabilities.
We also refreshed our disability income insurance product line in the quarter as this remains an important feature of a comprehensive financial plan.
These enhancements should begin to show in the third quarter.
In Auto &amp; Home this quarter we were particularly impacted by the storms that were more severe than usual in the central part of the country.
In regard to the overall business Auto &amp; Home has a good client base with good distribution that garners a very high client satisfaction and retention.
As we discussed with you we have a number of actions on the way to address some increased developments we've experienced.
This includes adjusting pricing tightening underwriting as well as improving claims management in certain areas across the book.
The steps we're taking should get us back on track to the level of performance and return we previously delivered.
It will take time as our initiatives work through the book.
We expect to see good benefits in 2016 and beyond.
Now let's move to Asset Management where we have a strong foundation of assets and are generating solid earnings and competitive margin.
Assets under management were down slightly from a year ago but that was largely driven by the foreign exchange translation.
We're executing our strategy while investing in the business and being diligent about expenses.
We're generating strong investment performance versus benchmarks and peers.
In the U.S.
we continue to generate strong equity performance in short as well as longer-term time frames particularly in large cap core growth and quantitative products.
In addition our small and mid-cap growth products continue to improve in the short term.
Taxable fixed income performance has performed in line with our risk profile.
Tax exempt performance remained strong.
While the Acorn Fund is still underperforming over the medium-term its performance has improved versus both against benchmark and peers in the short-term.
In EMEA we continue to generate good short and longer term track records especially in equities.
While UK performance has been somewhat mixed recently longer term performance remains strong.
Both U.S.
and European equity performances continue to improve and longer term track records are quite strong.
In Asia all of our locally-managed funds now have one-year track records and in each case are beating their benchmarks and peers.
Let me highlight some other things we're focused on starting with retail.
In the U.S.
retail gross sales are up almost 10% from last year.
We're adding to our leadership talent and distribution marketing and product and we'll soon announce our new national sales manager that will compliment the leadership changes that we've made over the last few quarters.
Wholesaling focus is improving.
We're strengthening our product training and better aligned our sales strategy.
And we're investing in our marketing and advertising to reflect new Columbia Threadneedle Investments' go-to-market strategy.
Our plan is to be in the market later this year with new creative.
While these actions are beginning to take hold there's still more work to do.
In the quarter retail outflows were elevated in the Acorn Fund which lost a large DCIO client.
However we're very focused on improving Acorn's performance.
We're managing the planned leadership transition and increased concentration of our top holdings returning the investment process to its roots and strong legacy.
In the UK and Europe we're generating good retail growth sales and had net inflows of about $800 million in the quarter.
We also have a very good UK property business with assets of about $13 billion that provide a meaningful contribution.
In addition at U.S.
Trust we experienced a level of outflows consistent with prior quarter.
We've renewed our relationship with U.S.
Trust which remains strong.
Over the next quarter or two we expect outflows in some low-margin fixed income portfolios that U.S.
Trust will take in-house.
In institutional other former parent related outflows included a larger than usual outflow in low-fee Zurich assets due to the sale of an annuity block.
The underlying run rate of outflows have returned to normal levels as we serviced this closed block.
That said we're driving growth in our higher fee third-party business including more than $900 million of net inflows in the quarter as nearly all the mandate wins we expected to see in the first quarter funded in the second.
Client service consultant relations and sales are managed globally now which has enhanced our support and ensures that sales teams offer our full portfolio of strategies.
Our institutional sales pipeline is healthy and we have a good pool of high potential sales.
We expect that over time third-party Institutional will become an even larger component of the business.
This includes the solution space where we're continuing to build out our capabilities and investing in our infrastructure and sales efforts to support longer-term growth.
More work remains to be done in Asset Management but we're making progress on a number of fronts and believe we can continue to gain traction in key areas.
We will still experience one-off impacts and legacy flow dynamics and like the industry we continue to deal with current market and geopolitical conditions.
Our focus remains on improving our overall flows as we continue to deliver competitive financials and look to earn share across key markets.
Now let me turn to an issue that we're all focused on the Department of Labor's fiduciary proposal.
We support the DOL's objective in ensuring that investors particularly those saving for retirement receive advice that's in their best interest.
The industry has supported a uniform fiduciary standard for years.
Ameriprise has long served clients and served them well under a fiduciary standard.
We believe that our track record and the high client satisfaction rates we consistently earn demonstrate that we have a beneficial business model for the delivery of advice.
We take the DOL seriously when they say that they intend to preserve beneficial business models for the delivery of advice.
However we think the DOL's proposal as currently drafted could have some significant unintended negative consequences.
We have submitted our recommendations and are supportive of the comments from the major trade associations other member firms and FINRA.
These provide vital perspective on the broad range of issues that must be addressed and are responsive to the DOL's request to help them get it right.
Importantly just in the last few days the DOL has said that they will make significant changes to the proposal.
We hope that that means that the concerns raised by many stakeholders in comment letters are being heard and will be addressed.
Given they intend to make changes all stakeholders should wait to see how the comments to the DOL are addressed before making definitive conclusions.
We've dealt with regulatory changes before and we will work with our trade associations and other stakeholders throughout this process to advocate for our clients with a goal of most appropriately satisfying the DOL's objectives.
We continue to believe that Ameriprise is situated well and has the ability to respond to appropriate requirements to satisfy the DOL's objectives.
In closing as I look at the company overall we've been able to consistently generate good growth in EPS and strong ROE.
We have a good combination of businesses and people to continue to execute the strategy we have in place.
And I feel good about our ability to continue to generate strong free cash flow with our mix of businesses as well as to navigate the market and consistently return to shareholders as we have.
Our capital management remains a real strength.
We recently increased our quarterly dividend and also increased our buyback in the quarter as we saw more dislocation in the stock.
With that I would like to hand things over to Walter for a detailed review of the numbers.
Thank you Jim.
As Jim indicated Ameriprise delivered another solid quarter of financial results in the face of a fairly volatile market.
Operating net revenues was $3 billion up 2% from last year.
Revenue growth was muted by the impact of a CLO liquidation in the prior year as well as an unfavorable foreign exchange translation.
Without these items underlying revenue growth was 4%.
Operating EPS was $2.33 up 12% from last year.
However it was impacted by several one-time items that we announced last week specifically elevated CAT losses in Auto &amp; Home a reserve release in long term care and an unfavorable mean reversion.
Excluding these one-time items operating EPS was $2.38 up 15%.
And the operating return on equity reached a new record level of 23.5% which is above our targeted range of 19% to 23%.
Turning to slide four you'll see that our business mix shift continues to evolve.
Advice &amp; Wealth Management and Asset Management represented 65% of pre-tax operating earnings this quarter fueled by strong growth in AWM.
As we grow we expect the mix shift will continue towards an intermediate 70%-plus target.
Turning to segment performance starting with AWM on slide five.
The Advice &amp; Wealth Management business is performing well across key growth and activity metrics and delivered solid financial results particularly given the market volatility.
Revenue was up 6% to $1.3 billion largely driven by an $18 billion increase in assets.
While total expenses increased 5% year-over-year it was driven by higher distribution expense.
We kept G&amp;A expenses essentially flat year-over-year while still investing in key business growth initiatives including more productive experienced advisor recruits advisory platform product expansion and investments to improve the ease of doing business for advisors and clients.
This resulted in earnings of $220 million up 13% and a record margin of 17.3% up 110 basis points from last year.
Let's look a bit more closely at the drivers of AWM's profitability improvement on slide six.
We continued to generate good growth in advisor productivity which reached a record level of $512 000 up 9% compared to last year.
Productivity improved nicely in the franchise channel which reached $532 000 up 8% and we saw more substantial growth in the employee channel where productivity increased to $433 000 up 12% from last year.
Improved advisor productivity along with strong experienced advisor recruiting and expense discipline continues to support strong margin expansion.
Margins have grown 350 basis points since 2013 when we established our 20%-plus margin opportunity.
Looking at it by channel margins in the more established franchise channel are now 18%.
Margins in the employee channel were almost 12% this quarter and continue to expand nicely.
Over time we intend to drive employee channel margin expansion and they should approach the level of the franchise channel.
We remain focused on driving improved profitability through continued productivity improvements as well as recruiting and retaining advisors.
In addition we see the opportunity for margin expansion when short rates rise.
We have approximately $20 billion in client cash sweep accounts earning about 22 basis points.
Since we have not benefited from short rates yet we would expect a substantial margin lift when the Fed funds rate increases.
Together these growth dynamics demonstrate the strength of our model success of strategies to grow this business and the opportunity we have to drive profitability even higher.
Our strong performance on the absolute basis is matched by our strong relative performance as you'll see on slide seven.
Our AWM segment revenues are almost $1.3 billion which is a 9% CAGR over the past two years.
Over that same time period our margins have expanded 340 basis points substantially surpassing the margin expansion of peers.
We believe our growth has been quite competitive on a relative basis including relative to other large wire houses and online brokers that benefited from banking and market-making activities.
Asset Management continues to provide a solid contribution to Ameriprise's revenue and earnings as you'll see on slide eight.
Operating net revenues declined 1% to $832 million.
However the year-over-year comparison is distorted by the timing of the COL (sic) [CLO] (21:45) liquidation of $23 million in the prior year and an unfavorable $17 million impact from foreign exchange translation in the current quarter.
Adjusting for these items underlying revenue growth was about 3%.
Pre-tax operating earnings were down 1% to $197 million.
Again adjusting for the timing of a $17 million CLO liquidation in the prior year and an unfavorable $6 million impact for foreign exchange translation underlying earnings were up approximately 12%.
Expenses continue to be tightly managed and we were essentially flat adjusting for the items I just described.
We remain focused on maintaining profitability and margins at the current level while investing in growth initiatives to improve flows.
Turning to Annuities on slide nine.
Annuities pre-tax operating earnings were $150 million down 12% from last year.
However the prior-year results included several items distorting the year-over-year comparison.
Adjusting for these items earnings increased 6%.
Underlying variable annuity pre-tax earnings grew 7% from a year ago to $123 million when we adjust for the year-over-year impact of clients moving to managed volatility funds and mean reversion.
While the move of clients to managed volatility funds drove a significant initial earnings benefit last year it also improved the risk profile of the block.
Underlying earnings growth was driven by higher account values of variable annuities sold through our own advisor channel and the runoff of the closed block distributed through third-parties.
Fixed annuity pre-tax operating earnings was flat at $30 million as the benefit of repricing the block was offset by elevated lapses.
Lapse rates are in line with our expectations given the current interest environment.
There are limited new sales and as a result this book is expected to gradually run off and earnings will slowly decline.
Turning to the Protection segment on next two slides.
Protection pre-tax operating earnings were $72 million in the quarter impacted by $48 million of CAT losses in Auto &amp; Home and an $18 million reserve release related to our long term care disabled life reserve both of which were previously disclosed.
Let's focus on the Life &amp; Health business first.
Underlying Life &amp; Health pre-tax operating earnings were impacted by higher claims activity and a lower interest rate environment.
On the claims side life claims were elevated in the quarter and slightly higher than expected.
While disability claims were still quite good in the quarter they were higher than a very favorable experience in the prior year.
I would like to take a few minutes to discuss the long time care disabled life reserve review that we conducted in the quarter.
As you are aware we announced $32 million reserve increase in the first quarter following a review of our claims reserve based upon information we received from Genworth.
After reviewing the documents we received from Genworth we decided to engage a third-party consultant to validate their analysis.
This additional review identified that actual claims and termination experience for our block was more favorable than the information Genworth initially indicated.
As such we released $18 million of claims reserve that had been booked in the first quarter.
We are working with Genworth to improve the accuracy of the data provided and enhance the processes associated with setting the claims reserves.
The reserve review conducted over the past couple of quarters is related to claims reserves only since we used data from Genworth to set that reserve.
The adequacy of the active life reserve is determined using our own data and is reviewed regularly.
As part of our annual unlocking process we will evaluate all of the non-equity market assumption across our life LTC and annuity products in the third quarter.
Let's turn to Auto &amp; Home on slide 11.
The Auto &amp; Home business had an operating loss in the quarter which was clearly impacted by the significant level of CAT losses.
We planned for $23 million of CAT losses but actual CAT losses came in at $48 million.
This was driven by higher exposure to the central part of the country that experienced an elevated level of severe weather in the quarter.
Underlying Auto &amp; Home results reflect the current year loss ratio provision.
As you recall we are booking reserves for the 2015 accident year at a level consistent with the 2014 accident year loss ratio assumption we changed in the fourth quarter.
As we discussed last quarter we are continuing to phase in changes to our pricing to risk models enhance claims and underwriting processes and improve operations.
We are seeing clear indications that the changes we are making are working.
There has been a slowdown in new policy sales across product lines with the most material decline in auto.
We are on target to achieve marginal profitability for Auto &amp; Home excluding excess CAT losses in 2015 with a more meaningful improvement to earnings in 2016.
Let's turn to the balance sheet on slide 12.
Our balance sheet fundamentals are strong.
We have approximately $2.5 billion of excess capital.
Our risk-based capital ratio is estimated to be approximately 560%.
Our hedge program is effective and our investment portfolio is well-diversified.
Our business mix shift is continuing to generate strong free cash flow allowing us to return a substantial amount to shareholders.
Given the share price in the quarter and our current valuation we accelerated the level of share repurchase.
We returned $549 million to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends which is our highest quarterly level.
This equates to over 125% of operating earnings.
As always we will continue to monitor both the macro environment and our relative valuation and look to bring down our excess capital over time.
In summary Ameriprise delivered another good quarter of financial results.
Our growth engine remains the AWM business where strong fundamentals will continue to drive margin expansion.
In Asset Management we are maintaining competitor profitability and our business initiatives are focused on improving flows.
The Annuity business is delivering sound growth with an improved risk profile.
Life &amp; Health earnings remain solid and we're taking the necessary steps to improve the financial performance of the Auto &amp; Home business going forward.
Our business mix transition to higher growth higher fee businesses is ongoing and generates strong free cash flow.
And all of this rests on a solid balance sheet and enterprise risk management framework and is clearly driving shareholder value.
With that I will open it up to questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
And our first question comes from John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
My first one is around Advice &amp; Wealth Management.
You saw net revenues continue to grow pretty nicely roughly in line with the growth in productivity.
I guess I'm curious Jim whether you saw any significant change in the underlying mix of the sales by product? And I know for example last quarter you saw a fairly late contribution from Annuity sales.
And I'm assuming that picked up this quarter with the overall VA sales growth.
Yes that's correct.
What we have seen is again strong take-up again in our fee-based wrap businesses.
We've seen an increase in our sales on the guaranteed on the annuities side.
Things like various transactional business and brokerage such as REITs are very low.
It represents about – less than 1% around 1% of our sales activity.
So it is really again sort of the core products and services that we have offered.
We have seen a good flow improvement and good activity across our network.
Okay.
And then anything this quarter that you'd characterize as a – sort of a noticeable early impact from advisors maybe shifting some business in response to the DOL proposal recognizing it is only a proposal? Not at all.
In fact our advisors feel very good about what they do for the consumer whether in qualified or non-qualified.
We've had a pretty consistent mix.
We get unbelievable satisfaction levels from our clients and they are really very comfortable and happy with – achieving their retirement goals if it's in their – against their retirement needs.
So in fact we think we're well-situated based on the business that we do.
And again the products that we sell in are needs-based.
So at the end of the day I think we're doing what we need to do appropriately consistent with both the regulatory but more importantly from a client need and disclosure perspective.
Thank you.
And then I just have two real quick ones in Asset Management.
G&amp;A seemed a bit higher than I guess I would have expected.
It's not that significant maybe it's about $5 million or so.
Just curious whether we should think about the $345 million of G&amp;A in the quarter as a run rate or if there was anything unusual there in the second quarter? No I think the only unusual is as Jim mentioned I think we launched our brand.
And certainly we had the expense in there but we believe the expenses will just be on its normal run rate.
Yeah and we did the relocation of the Threadneedle premises in London.
So we had some additional expense there so.
And then on the fee rate it looks like you're starting to really see some upward momentum there.
I guess I'm curious based on what you're seeing in the underlying mix shift.
I know you said some of the legacy outflows maybe were elevated this quarter and maybe that had some impact.
But how much further do you think that fee rate can go let's say over the next couple of years based on sort of an underlying mix shift there Jim? Well I think we had a little uptick in some of the fees from the performance fees in the quarter which you know are not – doesn't happen on an equal basis every quarter but there I think there is a little more on the performance fee basis there.
Okay.
I do believe as you said some of the legacy lower fee coming out and over time I think as we build a bit more on the institutional through third-party or some of the solutions will be higher.
Unfortunately the Acorn was a little higher fee that we lost on the retail side.
So if we can stem that and continue to get some growth in the sales as we saw in the other retail channels like international and even domestic I think we can offset that and start to add.
But I would just say the bit of increase I think you saw was just a little lumpy from some of the performance fees.
That's helpful.
Thanks a lot Jim.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everybody.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I want to start with the capital deployment.
So could you maybe explain a little more the rationale behind the elevated buybacks this quarter compared to I think a very consistent $350 million quarterly run rate the last three years? And can we extrapolate from that or think of an elevated new run rate going forward? It's Walter.
Again as we've always indicated that we have the capacity and we will evaluate both the environment and our valuation and we felt in this quarter that it was warranted to take that up.
We did take it up $75 million.
We will continue to evaluate that.
We certainly have the capacity to do that.
And I think at this stage we're going to be opportunistic as we look into for the remainder of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then in Advice &amp; Wealth Management the recruiting efforts clearly were quite strong and then you say the pipeline remains strong as well.
Do you see any impact from the DOL proposal there? Do you see that impacting your recruiting capabilities? No I think one of the things again – the DOL will – once we exactly know what finally they come out with we'll understand some of the implications.
But we're probably situated very well in the type of business that we do how we work with clients.
We operate under a fiduciary standard across our network today.
We have very strong compliance structures and it's one of the benefits of people coming to us.
They like how we handle our centralized compliance our disclosures et cetera.
We have a very strong client value proposition.
And so we've seen a very strong good pipeline of highly productive people both in our employee and franchisee channel.
The pipeline remains strong.
So no we feel pretty good about it.
Again we're not – I think we're in good shape relative to the industry in general.
I don't see any differences between us or the industry when you look at it from a DOL.
In fact I think we're very well prepared because we have a very strong advisory relationship around our financial planning activities today and our retirement value proposition.
So again we don't know exactly where the final regulation will come out but I think you can see very strong responses out there from the industry from the associations even the regulators like FINRA.
I just saw a note going out from the SEC Governor.
I mean so there are a lot of responses out there that hopefully the DOL would understand what they need to accomplish.
We're very supportive of that objective.
We think we can satisfy that objective very well.
But again it's the way they go about doing it I think is where the rub is.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And a quick final question if I could also on the AWM segment.
So I think you mentioned in the script that you're expanding into clients in the accumulation phase.
And would that mean that we should expect some maybe offsetting productivity pressure coming on the revenue per head just because you are now targeting individuals that are probably not quite at the same level of net worth that the existing base is? No not at all.
In fact I think it'd actually be a great complement.
What we are doing we're rolling out to our advisors right now we've done a lot of work and research both a combination of our brand our value proposition our Confident Retirement approach Confident Retirement accumulation approach.
We've built our – our heritage is based on accumulation for retirement so I actually believe that we can serve the higher end of the mass affluent and the affluent quite well and those really accumulating for retirement the generation X coming up et cetera.
So it's really getting our advisors a little more focused on going back to that opportunity and combination and it's really against the upper market here.
So I actually think it will be a good opportunity for us and complement to what we do and longer term to build long-term relationships as we have in the past.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much for taking my questions again.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Question for you guys again on margins in the AWM.
So clearly really nice trajectory nice expansion so far.
As we look out and kind of thinking of the current environment stage sort of what it's been for the last kind of six months maybe a little bit more a range bound market how quickly do you think you'll be able to get that 17% margin that you have the 17.3% slightly higher which I guess you guys are targeting closer to 18% assuming no higher interest rates? Yeah well Alex I think as we said I mean we moved the needle pretty well and pretty fast over the last number of years going first at our 12% target then to 15% now we're in the 17% and change rate here.
So I think if we continue to – just continue to execute help our advisors just continue to drive their productivity and get our asset flow as we continue to focus our business even more on moving our center to a bit more on the affluent space uptaking some of the tools and capabilities we're putting in place we're coming in with a new branding approach at the end of the year.
We have a new wealth builder approach for accumulators.
So we're recruiting pretty well.
The people we're bringing in are higher productivity.
We're attracting a good number of people in the higher end.
So I think we're doing the things.
What that means quarter-to-quarter I can't tell you and I can't dictate sort of the market dynamics of just – but I think that in combination we know at hopefully one point this year the Fed is going to start to rise.
Remember we don't have contracts that are rolling off as some others where they're locked in.
We're actually at a low point so any benefit there goes right to the bottom line for us as well.
So I think we're situated well and I think we're going to continue to work against that.
We don't necessarily just focus on a margin improvement; we focus on a strength and growth in the entire channel that leads to that margin.
Alex it's Walter.
I'll just add if I could.
As we talked about it the employee channel certainly has been one that has demonstrated an improvement in its margin and again as we bring on years and certainly a higher productive years and they start building up productivity they're making a greater contribution to the fixed and that will also continue to go.
So I think there's a lot of things in play that will continue.
Again you can't just predict quarter-to-quarter as Jim said.
Right understood.
Thanks.
And I guess shifting gears a little bit on the Asset Management business can you just give us a since on the low margin fixed-income portfolio that you're saying U.S.
Trust has been sourcing.
And just from a modeling perspective help us understand how much it is and what's kind of the fee rate on that business.
And then Jim you highlighted continued strength in the institutional pipeline.
It would be helpful to kind of get us a sense at least directionally where that stands maybe relative to last quarter as we think about the kind of Columbia Institutional flows ahead.
Yeah I don't know the exact number at U.S.
Trust but we're probably $1.2 billion or something like that.
I'm not exactly positive.
But it's more of some separate accounts their lower fee.
For us it's not though they are a higher-margin business at all.
But again it's something that makes sense for U.S.
Trust as what they're doing.
It's not a major to us but I just figured I noted it because we sometimes look at the flow number rather than necessarily the revenue.
From a perspective on institutional it's quite strong.
The pipeline's quite strong.
The fee rate is quite good.
We're getting mandates both domestically as well as internationally.
Europe is picking up.
We think there is good opportunity for us as we continue to look out.
And again we don't know exactly when those things go and when they eventually even if you win them fund only because people are looking at the market situation the geopolitical interest rates.
But having said that I think we got a wide range of good pipeline there that we're competing with and hopefully that will continue to show some strength.
Understood.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First question on DOL.
So you have had three months or so since that proposal has come out and I recognize it's still fluid and there might be changes but just curious if you've done an internal analysis to assess kind of the range of potential impacts that you think this might have on your business? That's my first question.
I realize you haven't disclosed anything publicly but have you done something internally yet in a fairly comprehensive way to assess potential impact? That's my first question.
So I think as – we as a business look at it as many have you don't have clarity yet of what the regulation is.
There's an exemption that people say yes you can definitely sell an annuity et cetera.
And then some would say well maybe you can't.
So at the end of the day it really depends on how you interpret that.
It's not as clear.
What I could say to you is this – and this is one maybe that would be helpful in you analyzing it.
We are a business that serves our clients for all of their life needs including retirement.
So roughly 50% of our assets in qualified similar to others in this industry.
In that regard we have a majority of what we do in investment business in the qualified through advisory fees.
We're one of the biggest and best-growing in the industry against that and we have strong platform capability to continue to drive that if that's where the world goes appropriately.
But we do look at the needs of our client.
We do put them in the product that's appropriate to them and that's what we're asking the DOL to make sure that they look at the best interest of the client.
And best interest may not necessarily be what they think at the upset.
And you can see that from many firms in their comment letters including whether it's FINRA the SEC you can look at it from the associations you can even look at it from even major brokerage and even investment firms including those in ETFs that have made the similar statements.
So I think at the end of the day that's what we're saying.
But from a mix perspective same thing with annuities most of our business is in guarantees which the Treasury Department said is important.
If you looked what that would have done to the consumer not having those products in the last downturn it was significant.
But we're no different than the entire insurance industry annuity providers selling annuities and the percentage we have in qualified is similar.
So we're not an outlier in any of those things.
Now how is this interpreted across the industry? I think all of us can come to a little different equation on that.
But I don't think anyone knows for sure.
So that's what we're saying.
And if we just quantify things based on how we interpret versus how others interpret I've looked at what others said whether that's correct or not I don't know.
So I think that's what we're saying is until we know more until you know more until we know after this comment period and after what the FCC comes out with but once that happens we'll be very clear of what that means and how we can respond to it.
I would just say that we have very strong capability here.
We serve our clients well.
We have an unbelievable level of disclosure and compliance today.
We know how to serve people with the best interest and across our entire network of advisors.
And so we'll be able to respond.
Hopefully it will be against what the DOL truly wants as their objective that would make it efficient and appropriate for us to do that so we can serve even the smaller consumer.
That's helpful Jim.
And then I guess just a follow-up on that.
Yeah and I hear what you are saying in terms of there is a fair amount of latitude and discretion you can probably use to interpret the context of the proposal at this point so it would probably be pretty hard to quantify.
So let me ask it in a slightly different way.
If you had to look at some of the areas or issues out there do you legitimately see this being a bigger issue for – we'll say revenue momentum in the Advice &amp; Wealth business fee pressure in the Asset Management business or just the overall cost associated with the implementation of this? If you look at those three areas what would...
I think it would be – let me give an example.
I mean if let's say one product becomes more difficult to sell you're going to over time switch that to other products or services that make appropriate sense for the client and do that orchestration so from a revenue longer term I'm not sure that's – there may be some period because you're trying to figure out what that is and how to actually do that and put that in place.
But even there it depends on the lead time that is provided in this.
And again that's another issue.
I don't think based on what they want done that lead time is at all reasonable for many providers.
And we're probably one of the best that have the technology capability and clients' capability et cetera to do it as quick as anyone.
So I would just say that's one aspect you got to take in account.
The second aspect I think you take into account is the change in what's required in there.
And again based on what was originally spent you're talking about extensive changes that would be required from a client a disclosure a change in what they're looking at a level of information down to account holder.
I mean so all of that provided it's a little mind-boggling.
I mean you're seeing some of the quotes across some consultants said to that (50:26).
So again it's hard to jump at any of that and say that's ultimately what will come out.
I think the biggest issue more than anything that would be confusing to a player like us is this: how does that align with the regulations already in place? Will the SEC change what they're require and how to think about it? I mean there's a lot of case law behind this.
There's a lot of regulations built over very informed information over decades that people follow in this industry not just for Ameriprise but every broker-dealer every investment firm every product company selling their products.
And so all of those things or it's the level of complexity that we say what's the unintended consequence? So again that's why I'm not sitting here overreacting to it.
I think it has to get sorted out it has to be rational it has to be ability to serve the client.
Remember there's 100 million-plus U.S.
retail consumers saving for retirement.
And so again as I said I think Ameriprise is well situated.
I think we have a great value proposition.
Yes any change you always have to look at how you respond to it but hopefully this will get very rational because we're probably one of the first firms to say we want to serve clients in the best interest.
And we do that today.
So I can't answer your question yet.
I wish I could.
And I know it's what you're all saying as one of the implications for us but I would just say if you look at the financial services industry you look at a retail investment firm like us and you look at product companies we are situated as well as anyone.
No that's good perspective.
I appreciate it.
Just one last question just on Walter you'd mentioned you're preparing for your annual review of FAS 60 and FAS 97 products and I guess you do that every third quarter.
My specific question is long term care I know you did the claims review.
Can you comment on active life whether that's a risk of a reserve charge? I think you've been losing a little bit of money or roughly breakeven a small loss every quarter on an operating basis.
Should we be looking at that as a potential risk here? I think we're looking at – specifically we want to go to long term care.
We're looking at all of the products annuity and other products.
And as we evaluate it there are a lot of positive elements within it as we look at different factors.
Certainly one of them as you're aware is the interest rate which will be part of the evaluation.
We've made no judgments at this stage certainly where we thought the interest rates would be at this time last year is certainly lower and we will evaluate all those factors.
But nothing pops out from the standpoint that we are concerned about other than just looking at where the interest rates are at this stage all the other behavioral aspects certainly our price increases other things we're very confident that's what the actuaries are doing right now.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
I just want to go to Auto &amp; Home for a second.
Just given the consolidation in the property casualty industry as well as your comments about the turnaround maybe taking some time have you given any more thought to a more I guess a sooner exit of that business? So Suneet as we look at – so let me start with this.
I do believe that what we are able to do with the business because the business is quite strong.
We've had the business evaluated its model.
It has one of the best distribution-type platforms.
It's one of the lowest-cost providers in the industry et cetera.
It has one of the highest customer satisfaction.
In fact it was rated second from the big rating company that usually you hear about but you can't just necessarily talk about.
So I would just say there are tremendous attributes we already have.
So it's not a problem for us to grow what other people have.
It's more of we had to put in place a bit enhancements on some of the areas that have changed a little bit in the industry.
We're tightening a little underwriting adjusting pricing a little more sophistication around that.
Getting a little more what we would call expedited on some of our claims adding some resources there rather than relying on third-party.
So there are a number of things that we're doing that are well-known that the industry and we can do.
And we have the right resources that we've put in place to get that done.
So we actually feel very good about our ability and that this will add to nice earnings next year and the year after even more substantially.
So I think that would be a positive as you think about it and also a carrier for the business.
Now having said that we do recognize what's happening in the industry.
We do recognize the level of consolidation.
So we'll always think about how to evaluate that but again I don't feel like this is something that wouldn't add tremendous value to Ameriprise one way or the other over time.
Suneet it's Walter.
The only thing I just want to clarify is again all the initiatives we're talking about are pretty much on track.
Certainly the heavier CAT that we experience that will certainly change the profitability.
But the other initiatives and where we think this – and how long it's going to take is pretty much on track.
Your question is good.
It's appropriate.
We always do think about and evaluate it.
So again we'll see as the world in the future.
Yeah I appreciate those comments.
But at the end of the day it's not making any money.
I'm spending a disproportionate amount of my time talking to investors about a business that frankly I just don't see why it adds value to your company.
It just seems like it doesn't fit.
And like I said there's consolidation in P&amp;C.
I just still scratch my head and try to figure out why it merits the amount of attention that you are spending on it.
So Suneet I appreciate your perspective.
And certainly as we look at – this is not the return not the way we want.
But we do believe the basic underlying is quite strong and we're fixing it.
And then as Jim said it's not core.
We'll evaluate it.
But it's something that we put the resources in dedicate it and are turning it around and then have to evaluate it (57:10).
This is not the way – the sort of returns and characteristics that we would want from one of our businesses.
Or have had in this business.
That's right.
This business has actually many years ago it actually had returns.
We certainly have seen it and it has substantial potential.
Your perspective is certainly is valued.
Appreciated right.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just a couple of quick others.
On the JHS Capital Advisors I'm just curious if – can you give us some background in terms of how that deal came about? Is that something that you approached them? Or did they come to you? Just want to get some sense in terms of how that deal came about.
Actually we have the capability – or we've been looking at many different ways of evaluating the environment and certainly we have a group of people that look at and assess.
And it was a combination I think.
And we assessed both their – in fact they had an employee base and franchise base.
And conversations evolved.
And it was really we do look and we basically reached out to them.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up on Yaron's question.
I mean I know we're not talking about DOL on specific terms but would it be unreasonable to think that if the DOL proposal sort of passes as it's currently drafted that there could be further consolidation in Advice &amp; Wealth Management? Yeah well listen I think one of the things that we're finding out there is advisors even that have moved to a level of independence et cetera are recognizing that today's environment is a bit more difficult to do business in and that they're looking for a firm that would give them the support for a range of things including having good strong compliance in place.
So I mean we're attracting independents back into our franchisee channel for those reasons.
So it's not far to say if expenses and people don't have the right scale or appropriateness to respond to changes that that will cause some further level of consolidation.
I would say again we've made a lot of investments in our company in technology in marketing in compliance in training in development support.
So again I think we're well-situated if that continues to come about.
All right thanks.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi thank you.
Just wanted to come back to capital management.
I was hoping you could update us a little bit on how you are thinking about your excess capital as it has now been around $2.5 billion for an extended period? I guess is there a level you intend to keep as either a buffer or as dry powder for M&amp;A? And if not what are the factors other than just your stock price influencing how quickly you would return that to shareholders? Yeah okay.
It's Walter.
The level of capital has been at $2.5 billion again as we do – and certainly we generate a substantial amount of capital and then we've been certainly using it to return to shareholders.
We certainly don't lock and load at $2.5 billion.
And it is opportunistic.
And as I indicated we will certainly start returning more to and we'd evaluate.
We have the ability and we're constantly assessing both the environment and the opportunities out there as we evaluate to basically inorganically or organically and return to shareholders.
So I would say that we will start now as we talked about.
It's not our objective to keep $2.5 billion that we will – you should see us deploying that capital.
But we do generate a lot and we anticipate still continue to generate a lot as the mix shift and other things take place in the way we manage the required capital.
And again we – if you look over the last number of years we've been returning more than 100% of our earnings and that's because we have been able as Walter said through the mix shift through freeing up capital in certain lines and better risk management again (01:01:17) and changing some of our investment portfolio et cetera.
So I think we've been generating more even though we've been returning it which is a good thing.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Certainly a good problem to have.
I guess is there a level of capital you want to keep for inorganic opportunities if they do arise? Yeah we always said that we would maintain a level of flexibility.
Again it depends if there's a strong opportunistic reason that we should buy back a lot more because of the stock – we think the value is way low or something that's one thing.
But on the other side we always said that we wanted to maintain some flexibility.
But that doesn't have to be $2.5 billion for some additional acquisitions or things that come along that may fit in nicely that we can easily duct in and get some good shareholder return.
I think the nature of it was that over the last number of years we've just been able to free up a lot of capital even though we've been returning it and that's why it's been roughly about $2.5 billion.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it thanks.
And just one quick question just on the tax rate if you could talk about what drove the lower tax rate this quarter? And I guess Walter do you think of the 26% rate being sustainable beyond 2015? Or how should we think about taxes going forward? I would – It's strictly 2015.
And certainly as we go through the year we evaluate all of the moving parts as it relates to the business mix other factors that go in our tax planning and the tax rate is – again quarters they always deviate a little but the 26% we're reasonably comfortable is the achievable number for 2016.
And then we will evaluate going forward.
That's about as far as I would look at this stage.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
But we should think of it gradually increasing over time I would assume as your mix shifts more towards businesses with 35% tax rate.
Well the marginal tax rate yeah.
And again with the – it is the 35% but certainly we do a lot of tax planning with the mix of business we have.
So right now the 26% is there and then we just evaluate on the marginal as it changes and then whatever tax planning we do.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And thank you.
This concludes our Q&amp;A session.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
My name is Ellen and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Alicia Charity.
Ms.
Charity you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial's Third Quarter Earnings Call.
On the call with me today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the company's operations.
Reconciliation of the non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today's materials that are available on our website.
Some statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management's expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today's date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today's earnings release our 2014 annual report to shareholders and our 2014 10-K report.
We take no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I will turn it over to Jim.
Hello everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our Third Quarter Earnings Call.
This morning I will provide my perspective on the quarter and Walter will follow to discuss our financials.
Ameriprise delivered solid results in what was as you know a tougher operating environment.
Volatility spiked across global markets.
Equity markets dropped in the quarter and currency translation was a headwind as well as the ongoing pressure of low interest rates.
Across the firm we focused on executing our consistent strategy and managing expenses as we invest in the business and navigate these conditions.
Because of our ability to consistently generate strong free cash flow we are able to return to shareholders at a significant level while maintaining an excellent capital position.
For the quarter operating earnings per share increased 12% and that includes some moving pieces that Walter will address.
In terms of return on equity we continue to deliver at a differentiated level.
Operating ROE increased to 24% which is one of the best in the industry.
This is up nearly 200 basis points from last year and marks another record high for us.
Assets under management and administration were down to $766 billion as good Ameriprise retail client flows were muted by the market impacts I've discussed in outflows and asset management.
Let's move to the businesses.
In Advice &amp; Wealth Management even with markets depreciating our financial results and metrics remain strong.
Clearly the market dynamic was difficult in the quarter and asset levels were essentially flat at $433 billion.
That said in a volatile market environment our Advice value proposition shines.
Our advisors are using this opportunity to get in front of clients and reinforce the value of financial planning and advice across market cycles.
It's in this type of environment that people really need their financial advisor to help them remain calm and focused on longer-term goals.
Overall we have strong client inflows and of those inflows just under $3 billion went into Wrap products which is quite good in this environment.
Our investment advisory platform is one of the largest in the industry and a consistent growth driver for Ameriprise.
While this was down a bit from the second quarter we did see a pickup in clients' cash positions given the volatility.
I'm feeling good about the strength of our field force.
I've spent a lot of time recently with our TAP advisors and they're pleased with the support from the company and the ability they have at Ameriprise to build even more productive practices.
During the quarter we increased our advisor count.
In fact this was one of our best quarters for recruiting.
We had 95 new experienced advisors moving their practices to Ameriprise with strong average productivity per recruit across employee and franchise channels.
Looking forward our pipeline remains strong as more advisors recognize the strength of the Ameriprise value proposition.
We're also pleased to welcome more than 50 JHS advisors to Ameriprise as we completed that acquisition in the quarter.
In terms of our focus on growth as we shared previously we continue to seek to serve more of the mass affluent and affluent clients and see opportunity in two areas: Consumers who are accumulating assets and those who are transitioning to retirement.
I believe our firm and advisors are well positioned to help clients and prospects in every stage of their lives.
During the quarter we launched an extension of our successful Confident Retirement approach for those who are still building their wealth.
Wealth builders as we call them represent more than half of our target market.
Consumers with $500 000 to $5 million in investable assets.
They value our financial planning relationship so this is a real opportunity for us going forward as we introduce it to our entire field force over the coming months.
In a recent external study showed that 89% of generation X 92% of baby boomers and 87% of millennials surveyed want to work with an advisor who will meet them personally.
This research reinforces the growth opportunity we have as people continue to value working with a financial advisor.
And the importance of that human perspective for saving investing and retirement planning.
Helping advisors serve client needs deliver strong service and operate efficiently has always been a priority.
And we continue to get good uptake from the advisor capabilities we're investing in.
At the end of the quarter we launched a new mobile capability that integrates functionality from our highest-use advisor capabilities into one simplified experience that's accessible on any type of device.
We're seeing good initial results.
It's freeing up advisors' time to focus on serving their existing clients more comprehensively.
In September we unveiled the next evolution of our story to the U.S.
marketplace with our new Be Brilliant brand and advertising platform.
It illustrates the benefits of working with Ameriprise advisors and how comprehensive financial planning and the right advisor can help people achieve their personal goals today and in retirement.
The campaign tests very well with our target market and our advisors are taking great pride in the ads as they bring to life what they do every day on behalf of their clients.
We're working closely with the field to take advantage of the campaign in their local markets.
As a result of our efforts our advisors continue to grow productivity which increased 6% year-over-year to a new record of $514 000 over a 12-month basis.
This resulted in solid revenue and profitability growth in the quarter.
Therefore on a relative basis considering the significant market pullback and volatility in the quarter the business performed strongly.
Let me now turn to Annuities and Protection.
I'll focus more on the underlying business and Walter will cover the financials including the impact of unlocking.
In terms of Annuities we continue to see nice sales from the introduction of new living benefit riders earlier in the year as well as products without living benefits.
New sales within our channel look good which has helped offset some of the pressure from lower-equity markets on account balances.
And there's no real change in the fixed annuity trajectory given where we are with rates.
In Protection Life &amp; Health insurance sales remain muted overall and while Life claims were higher we do expect it to normalize.
We have a good book built to serve Ameriprise clients and planning relationships.
Around the business we are focusing on supporting our advisors to serve clients' protection needs.
We continue to see more of an interest in our IUL products than VUL and I expect that will continue in the near term given the market volatility we're experiencing.
We recognize that the volatile market environment creates challenges for these longer-term products but at the same time this environment reinforces the importance of guaranteed retirement income and protecting what matters most to clients.
In Auto &amp; Home we experienced higher collisions in part due to the increase in the number of miles driven as others in the industry have noted.
We continue to invest in our capabilities as we adjust pricing tighten underwriting as well as improve claims management.
This work has begun to take hold but it takes time for these enhancements to work through the book.
As we said last quarter we do expect to see some benefits next year and beyond.
The enhancements we're making are to restore the business to its historic performance.
In terms of our client experience we continue to maintain strong client satisfaction and retention.
Auto &amp; Home has a good client base and good distribution.
Now let's move to Asset Management.
This was clearly a tougher quarter in terms of assets under management.
The market environment I've discussed was particularly difficult with foreign exchange driving a large piece of the assets under management decline.
In addition we had outflows from two large clients in strong performing funds where asset allocation or geopolitical and liquidity concerns drove their decision to sell.
As we finish the year we're likely to see some additional pressure here.
Outflows in low-fee former parent affiliated assets this quarter were elevated.
In terms of fourth quarter we expect these will continue with additional outflows in low-fee collective trust funds given U.S.
Trust's decision to manage some of these fixed income products in-house.
In terms of Acorn outflows have persisted and while investment performance has improved year-to-date from the enhancements we put in place in the near-term we expect that outflows may continue.
In terms of underlying flows the market dropped in August and September and related volatility dampened retail activity globally.
With regard to U.S.
retail our gross sales were up compared to last year.
We have some improvements in sales share over the last few quarters and our wholesaling productivity has improved reflecting the steps we've taken to better align our sales strategy.
In Europe retail also slowed but we feel good about our positioning and flows could turn as conditions improve and clients become more comfortable.
Overall our investment teams are generating strong performance across equities and fixed income and in solutions.
The volatility is helping to demonstrate the benefits of active management.
We have added new talent to our sales leadership in both the U.S.
retail market and U.K.
institutional complementing the teams in place.
We also continue to strengthen our retail product line including the recent launch of the Colombia global unconstrained bond fund.
In Institutional we were impacted by the client moves we discussed.
That said we are building on the business.
We have good strategies with competitive track records in both the traditional and solutions space and aligned sales in a service organization.
Our pipeline remains strong as we look to the end of the year.
In terms of financials we continue to deliver solid earnings given our ongoing commitment to effective expense management as we focus on executing our strategy and delivering for our clients.
From the perspective of the overall company we're consistently generating an excellent return.
Our balance sheet and capital position are strong and our investment portfolio remains high quality.
That allows us to return more to shareholders and on a year-to-date basis we've increased our buyback significantly.
And combined with our dividend we have returned $1.6 billion this year alone.
Our capital position also provides flexibility as we look to drive organic growth and consider inorganic opportunities in both Wealth Management and Asset Management.
To that end earlier this month we officially marked our 10-year anniversary as an independent publicly-traded company.
As I reflect on the last decade we successfully executed one of the largest spinoffs in U.S.
history.
We navigated the financial crisis better than most and that was without government support.
Ameriprise emerged stronger because we had our own financial plan in place made good decisions and managed risk well.
We stood by our clients delivered appropriate products and solutions to satisfy their long-term goals.
At the same time we invested in our business and the right capabilities and set the stage for our future.
Ten years in Ameriprise is one of the strongest financial services firms in the business.
When we look at our brand and reputation it is one of the best in financial services.
I believe over that time we've earned an excellent track record of growth and return and for making thoughtful decisions in the interest of our clients advisors employees and shareholders.
Though markets have recently become more challenging we remain focused on navigating the environment while we look to continue to generate good returns over time.
With that I'd like to hand things over to Walter to review the numbers.
Thank you Jim.
Ameriprise delivered another solid quarter of financial results in a volatile market environment.
The S&amp;P 500 had substantial volatility in the quarter ranging from 1 868 to 2 128 and VIX ranged from a low of 12 to a high of 41.
In the quarter we generated operating net revenue of $2.9 billion down 1% from last year and down 4% sequentially.
This was obviously driven by the impact of market movement in the quarter on asset levels and the associated fee generation.
Assets under management administration was $766 billion a 4% decline year-over-year with a more pronounced 7% decline in asset management where geopolitical concerns equity markets and unfavorable foreign exchange reduced asset level and fee-based revenue.
Our top-line growth was impacted by the environment.
We continue to manage expenses tightly and use lower valuation levels to repurchase additional shares in the quarter.
And we benefited from effective tax planning.
These actions drove strong 12% growth in EPS and resulted in achieving a new record return on equity in the quarter of 24% up almost 200 basis points year-over-year.
Let's look more closely at capital on page four.
Our ability to return capital to shareholders at this level reflects our strong balance sheet fundamentals.
Our investment portfolio is well diversified and low risk.
Our hedge program is effective.
Our risk-based capital ratio is estimated to be over 625% and we have approximately $2.5 billion of excess capital.
Given the share price in the quarter and our current valuation we accelerated the level of share repurchase.
We returned $571 million to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends which is our highest quarterly level.
This equates to 133% of operating earnings.
We are confident in our continued ability to generate free cash flow return capital to shareholders and bring down our excess capital prudently over time.
Turning to segment performance starting with AWM on slide five.
The Advice &amp; Wealth Management business continues to perform well across all dimensions to deliver solid financial results.
Operating net revenue was $1.2 billion in the quarter up 3% from last year and down 2% sequentially.
Our revenue growth slowed due to the impact of market movement on asset levels and its associated fee generation but still compares favorably to others in the industry.
Wrap net flows were good at $3 billion despite the deterioration in the markets.
While total expenses increased 2% year-over-year it was driven by higher distribution expense.
G&amp;A expenses improved 1% year-over-year while still investing in key business growth initiatives including more productive experience advisor recruits advisory platform product expansion and investments to improve the ease of doing business for advisors and clients.
This resulted in earnings of $219 million up 7% and a record high-margin of 17.6%.
Results were achieved without the benefits of increasing short interest rates.
We have $21 billion of brokerage cash balances that earned 23 basis points in the quarter.
This is a substantial upside opportunity when rates rise.
Asset Management continues to provide a solid contribution to our revenue and earnings as you will see on slide six.
As I previously discussed both equity marks and foreign exchange translation impacted asset levels in the quarter.
Combined with elevated net outflows due to geopolitical concerns and the timing and performance fees it resulted in a 7% decline and operating net revenue to $782 million.
We remain committed to managing expenses tightly with G&amp;A down 3%.
Pre-tax operating earnings were $180 million down 13% from last year.
Again this represents the low markets and timing of performance fees.
Let's turn to slide seven.
Before I focus on the underlying business results and Annuities and Protection I want to review the annual unlocking completed this quarter.
Overall unlocking provided a $42 million favorable impact.
Variable annuities had a $64 million of favorable unlocking this year.
While continued low interest rates negatively impacted our unlocking it was more than offset by favorable net persistency withdrawal utilization and model updates.
Fixed annuity unlocking was only a $2 million favorable impact.
The benefit of clients' lapsing was largely offset by the impact of continued low rates.
For insurance the primary driver of $24 million unfavorable unlocking was low interest rates.
In long-term care we conducted the gross premium valuation and did not have loss recognition despite low interest rates.
While low interest rates impacted the assessment negatively we have received approval of more premium increases than we had anticipated and the benefit of these future rate increases more than offset the impact from low interest rates.
Turning to Annuities on slide eight.
I will focus on underlying results that exclude the impact from unlocking and mean reversion.
Underlying variable annuity pre-tax earnings declined $3 million from a year ago to $116 million.
This decline was driven by lower account values from markets and from the runoff of the closed-block distributed through third parties.
Underlying fixed annuity pre-tax earnings declined $23 million due to elevated lapses of the blocks running off as it comes out of the surrender charge period.
Given the current interest environment there are limited new sales and as a result this book is expected to gradually run-off and earnings will trend down.
Turning to Protection on the next slide.
I will focus on underlying earnings.
Protection pre-tax operating earnings were $49 million in the quarter excluding the unusual items noted for the quarter.
This is down $38 million from last year with the impact essentially split between our Life and Health business and our Auto &amp; Home business.
Let's focus on Life and Health first.
Underlying pre-tax operating earnings were impacted by higher claims activity and the lower-interest rate environment.
Life claims were elevated in the quarter as we had four large later duration VUL claims that had a much higher retention level than our more recent policy years.
Year-over-year gross claims increased $19 million compared to a very favorable quarter a year ago.
As you can see we did not see a corresponding increase in the benefit from reinsurance.
The Auto &amp; Home business generated a pre-tax operating loss in the quarter.
First we experienced deterioration in collision results from an increase in miles driven and lower salvage values which is consistent with many in the industry.
Second we had a loss associated with Travel Accident program a small program we piloted but did not meet our profitability targets.
Therefore we are in the process of exiting this business.
Third we had some prior year CAT development associated with hailstorms from last year.
Finally we had higher expenses this year as we continue to enhance our operation and staffing levels.
The operational improvements we have made this year are beginning to show across our product lines of event collision.
Unfortunately that has been masked by some of the unusual items in the quarter.
Our activities are on-track and we anticipate marked improvement next year.
To wrap Ameriprise delivered another solid quarter of financial results despite some revenue pressure related to market volatility.
We will continue to actively manage the levers within our control like expenses balance sheet strength and capital return to drive consistent solid financial performance.
With that I will open it up to questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
The first question is from Suneet Kamath with UBS Financial.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to start with asset management.
Jim in your color around the flow picture it seems to me to suggest that there's probably not going to be a turn in 4Q from some of the trends that affected you in 3Q.
So my question is do you think that 4Q flows could actually be worse than what we saw in third quarter? You know I think as we look at the fourth quarter I don't think from sort of the core businesses that that will be the case.
On the other side we know that there's a level of volatility in August and September and we know that that may continue depending on markets.
So we wanted to be clear particularly in the institutional space that's a little lumpy.
The only area as I highlighted in my opening remarks was around one of the ex-parent activities and some of the low-fee as they take a bit of that portfolio back in-house.
But we were planning on that and it is very low revenue to us.
But that's the only thing that probably would be higher in the area that we highlighted in the ex-parent activities.
But from the retail and institutional I don't see that at this point in time but again I don't know how the rest of the year will go in volatility.
Okay.
And then Walter – sorry go ahead.
No.
That was it.
Okay.
Sorry.
So then Walter you had mentioned that performance fees were lower in the quarter.
I think you said it was $10 million in the year ago and less than a million this quarter but that some of it was related to timing.
Any sense based on what you know today of what that could look like next quarter? I think we'll see – normally at fourth quarter is higher – but I think we will see that it will shift into the fourth quarter and basically on the year where it's within our targeted ranges.
And what are those targeted ranges? Let me say it's tough to – but now fourth quarter is basically the $10 million that we talked about should be able to flow through.
And so it will not be a variance factor except for that $10 million.
And we anticipate that the normal performance fees that we have last year and this year will be in the ranges that won't be of course a variance of that like it did in this quarter.
Okay.
And then just lastly on the capital I fully acknowledge the move from $425 million buyback to $450 million but given where the stock is which I think is lower today than where you bought back stock in the third quarter and the excess capital position remains at roughly $2.5 billion why can't that quarterly run rate of buyback be in excess of $500 million on a quarterly basis? Well it could but as we demonstrated as we feel the stock is undervalued looking at our – that we have purchased 133% of our basically earnings.
So we are evaluating that and looking at it but certainly we are – we talk about our range as 90% to 100% but we've demonstrated as we see the circumstances – the opportunity that we will buy up.
I don't know if we'll go to $500 million but certainly we have the capacity to do that and we will evaluate it.
But I would imagine you should expect it would be higher than 90% if the current situation continues.
All right.
I think – I think you should take the buyback up over $500 million sell Auto &amp; Home and your stock price will be higher than $111.
Thanks.
All right.
Okay.
So thanks.
I wrote that down.
The next question is from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everybody.
I wanted to start with a question on the advisor hires.
It seems like the last two quarters you may be turned a corner there and we're certainly seeing some momentum.
Can you maybe talk about what – has there been any shift in terms of your recruiting strategy or the efforts or what's leading to the higher advisor recruiting levels? Well first of all we are bringing in what we think is a good core of new advisors to the firm has very good productivity.
And I think will fit in nicely based on the value proposition that we have and what their interests are to grow their productivity.
And I think it's really over the course of the last year that we've been able to better get out there in the market and tell our story.
That – it always takes time to sort of build that sort of pipeline in relationships.
And I think people are more interested as they learn more about Ameriprise.
And so I think it's been a more consistent sort of ramp-up that we've had and the pipeline still looks very good.
So we feel good about that.
We're seeing good people.
And it's all about what makes sense for them.
And if it fits with what we're looking to accomplish then it becomes a win-win.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then one follow-up asset management clearly is coming under pressure but that also means that valuations for such franchises have compressed as well.
I'm just curious as you talk about capital deployment and your thoughts about the future clearly you've been quite disciplined in terms of deals in the past.
Do you see a pipeline today? Is it more robust? Do you see more opportunities or more serious opportunities from your perspective as you potentially look for deals in asset management? Yeah I do believe that there is a bit more of a reconciliation of people evaluating what the alternatives are.
I think there's also an understanding of what would be more of appropriate pricing as we go forward and I do believe there'll be more opportunities that come about over the next number of quarters.
So if something interesting does fit the bill and it strategically makes sense for us and it would be a good complementary as I said and Walter said that we do have the cash on hand and the capital ability to do that and we would be very open to exploring those opportunities.
But as you also said we're also very disciplined and it has to be appropriate and make sense to get us a little further down the road than where we are.
Inc.</span></strong> And could you remind us in that space what would be a good strategic fit from your perspective? You know we're continuing to look at building out some of our product set around alternatives and solutions and there may be some core product that would be complementary on the global platforms that we have.
We're also looking to further expand some of our distribution capabilities – as we continue to build out our global activities.
So again I think it would – there are a number of things that would fit the bill or can increase our ability to grow even more formally in some of the channels that we're in.
So I don't think it's just one thing that we're looking for per se but there may be other – a broader set of opportunities that would work for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
The next question is from Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you.
Can you update us on your strategy to accelerate the growth in Colombia's retail channel? I mean obviously it's a tough environment but are you seeing progress in terms of getting on distribution platforms or establishing performance track records for new funds or maybe some other initiatives that give you confidence that flows can turn.
And if and when we see a pickup in retail demand? Yes.
So I did mention that we are seeing some good traction.
I think it's hard to see overall because you get some – we've had some additional redemptions in things like the Acorn Fund et cetera but overall our sales activity as we look at external benchmarks like Market Metrics et cetera shows that our market share and some of the major channels that we're doing business in some of the major intermediaries has actually improved.
And so that does mean that we're able to expand a bit more.
Now that takes time and it does take that you get more fully onto those platforms and the relationships form but I think we now are making some good progress.
We have plans.
We just brought in some additional strong leadership in both the platform business over the last year.
We brought in a strong leader overall for the intermediary channel.
We just added a new leader to run our wholesaling activities.
We have adjusted how we go to market working between the product and the marketing groups and be able to tell our story a lot better.
We're also putting out new advertising in the marketplace that we'll be launching shortly.
We've been a little quiet there as we've worked on a new brand the Colombia Threadneedle.
And so we feel pretty good that we can continue to gain traction.
But again it doesn't come overnight and it does get impacted and influenced based on what's happening in the volatility of the markets but we have some really good products like a strategic income fund that really suits what the client and the advisor are looking for right now.
So we do believe that we can actually take more space and we have a good group of leadership and people focused on doing that.
So that's really what I can say at this point.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
And just quickly on PNC do the emerging trends you're seeing in auto claims change your view at all as to how much rate is needed and should we anticipate that it will take longer than initially expected to get back to target margin levels? This is Walter.
Obviously the collision and the impact on the – which was driven by certainly the drop in salvage voucher which was quite substantial and the frequency of people driving has and we will reflect that but the other actions that we are taking are I think are in place but we're going to have to supplement that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
The next question is from Eric Berg with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
First in the asset management area Jim I'm hoping you can build on your comments your prepared comments that there's been a change in strategy or outlook at U.S.
Trust.
This is – I believe this is your – the specifics behind your reference to the former parent company relationships.
What has been the nature of the change and sort of how long will it last – how long will the effect last beyond the December quarter? So what we were saying first of all we have a very good strong relationship with U.S.
Trust multiple dimensions particularly strong in our fund family et cetera.
And that really hasn't changed.
I think what I did mention is you know they go through their portfolio allocations et cetera they're dealing themselves and where their flow should go.
They're a bit more into how they're looking at their overall lineup.
But this is a really -- regarding some of their collected trust areas for some of their clients and fixed income.
And they feel that some of those things they can manage in-house and they're looking to do some of that.
Now again it's a low-fee business.
It's something that they think its suited for at this stage for them.
And so you know we probably will see a continued outflow from that area but nothing fundamental around the larger relationship has changed.
Next with respect to the international institutional business where you've had clients outside the United States withdrawing funds for what you call geopolitical reasons.
Can you build on what you mean by geopolitical reasons? Are we talking about the collapse in the price of oil and the effect that that has had on certain sovereign wealth funds or something else? Well I think there are two things just in broad terms okay? So as you've seen there's a move away from some of the emerging market and Asians that we have some good portfolios in that some clients reallocate right now from.
The second area is definitely around the price of commodities and other things that have occurred that may affect some of the investments from clients.
You've read about that sort of more globally.
But it's nothing particularly to Ameriprise.
It's nothing against the performance.
And in fact people just need to raise some once in a while some liquidity.
So we think over time that will settle and actually things will come back into some of those areas because it wasn't a performance issue for where they're pulling some money right now.
So – and we're probably affected less than some others out there.
Last question.
I understand that there is no new fiduciary rule so you can't react to it.
I'm not going to ask you to do that.
But I would think that you would be doing preparation for the possibility possibility not the certainty that the IRA rollover business could become a lot more difficult to get done in the future than it has in the past.
Would that be a right conclusion to reach or just what sort of preparation are you doing for possible changes? Thanks.
Well I think Eric as you do understand us here at Ameriprise you know that we always do our planning and we always look at what may happen.
And so I do have my teams geared up.
We look at everything that has come out from the department.
We look at what – based on all the comments and what the department has already said that they need to look at or possibly change.
And we're already gearing up to see what that looks like and what it takes to make those adjustments and already have things underway.
I would be very clear as I've actually even outlined in my opening remarks whether they're millennials that people sometimes think they just want to work with a Robo or they just want to be self-administered.
We clearly know that they want advice.
We clearly know that the populations that we're talking to want to work with an advisor.
And we have the best one of the best advisor forces out there.
Our satisfaction is very strong.
They like what we have to offer.
So again I know the department will come up with something.
We know that we want to work in the best interest.
There's no argument for us on that.
We'll see as they make adjustments to their rule that it's more rational.
You can work with people on a reasonable basis with reasonable compensation and try to satisfy their needs consistent with what FINRA and the SEC already look at and regulate.
So – but yeah we are planning for it and we are already looking at things of what may come about from whether it's disclosure or how you operate or a compensation.
But again I think Ameriprise and what we offer is really the key.
And I think if people weren't satisfied today you wouldn't have those strong personal relationships that we have.
But they really want personal advisors and they really want the biggest thing they want help on is their retirement.
Thank you Jim.
Your next question is from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Back to the M&amp;A discussion for a second.
Jim any sense and I guess when you're talking about opportunities to deploy capital and inorganic growth any sense on which way you guys are leaning towards more in the broker side of things.
So similar type of deals we saw you guys do earlier this quarter or last quarter or more on the asset management.
Just kind of try to see given your kind of alluded comments on improvement pipeline and deal flow which way does that pipeline skew? Yeah I think Alex it doesn't have to be an either/or for us.
We have the means and the ability to do both.
We have the experience to do both and the operating infrastructure to do both.
So as an example if there are things that fit in for us in the broker dealer side that would complement the good recruiting we're doing we're open to entertain that.
We have the ability to do that.
We do look at things that come along.
And the same thing on the asset management side.
It hasn't been that we haven't kicked the tires on a number of things but whether it's because of a combination of factors operating factors people factors or just the value that people are attributing to some things we would have passed them that might have passed on some of the things and that really explore them to that depth.
But I think if those things come along again in that light we have the ability to do both.
Got it.
Understood.
And then on AWM operating leverage and margins clearly super strong results with continued margins here hanging in at record levels.
As you guys look out and think about a more challenging equity market drop let's say in a flattish equity tape how much more operating leverage can we still see from just organic initiatives without the help from the market? Just trying to get at the sensitivity in the model.
Yeah I think – as I think about that it's – what I would say is that if markets just flatten it depends on how they flatten in the level of volatility and how that affects client activity.
So it's hard to say it's just like driven based on the market but as you saw in the third quarter markets actually depreciated.
So we still had good client inflows in.
We had cash balances built but we still put money to work for our clients and in our wrap businesses.
So it's hard to predict exactly what the circumstances are.
What I would just say is we're operating at pretty good margins.
We continue to see productivity lifts from what we've invested in.
But having said that with flat markets or lower client activity it depends on what that looks like of whether the margins would accrete from there or stay more consistent.
I think I would probably put it in that sort of vantage point that says stay more consistent at this point in time.
We are again at one point the Fed will raise interest rates if the economy continues to improve or even maintain at this growth rate.
I mean it's hard to see why you're at a 0 interest rate with even a 2% growth rate in the economy.
So I think at one point that may kick in that will offset what happens with the equity market pressure.
Yes.
I hear you there.
And Walter just real quick on seasonality in AWM should we still expect a similar type of kind of a pickup in G&amp;A in the fourth quarter like we've seen in prior years? I'm sorry.
Say that again? I didn't pick up the first part of it.
Sorry.
The seasonality in expenses in AWM should we expect to see similar pick up in the fourth quarter in G&amp;A like we've seen it in prior years? I think there's some things around market and things like that.
I think you'll see a normal pattern.
But certainly the expense will remain controlled as we've demonstrated in the first three quarters.
Great.
Awesome.
Thanks very much.
The next question is from Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
First question on what drove the big increase in RBC this quarter from the 560% last quarter to 625%? Was that favorable annuity hedging or what was driving that? Yes.
That is mostly variable annuity hedging and the value of it going up.
Yes.
That was exactly correct.
Got it.
And then just given the level of increase there Walter why wouldn't your excess capital have grown to north of $2.5 billion? Is it holding more RBC for VA? No it's actually – it is the continued buyback that we did in exceeding the level of our earnings.
So there is an element within that and so the net net effect is it has been in the range that we've reported last quarter.
Okay.
So bigger drawdown of HoldCo cash offset by an increase in RBC.
Is that the right way to think about it? Well it's in it – yes – because RBC comes into our calculation.
We look at the overall excess.
Certain things we discount a little bit as we talk about but it is basically – we're feeling very good about the requirement.
And we have used more cash too for buyback.
Okay.
Just shifting gears to M&amp;A.
Jim your earlier response you mentioned I believe products on the asset management side as being some – I think that was the first thing you responded to when asked about M&amp;A which suggests to me more asset management is of interest.
Can you talk about would you be interested in doing another pretty sizeable deal or would it just – would it be something smaller to expand product instead of a large AUM-type deal? So what I would probably say is that we would look for deals that would be incremental to what we've established would be our primary.
It doesn't rule out something else that may be out there or come along if it made strategic sense or if it really was complementary that was on a larger scale.
But as we think about just the climate and things that come up in the normal course of the year we think that you can easily more easily execute more of the smaller strategic complementary type things in product and distribution and that would be always the first thing.
But if something came along that made sense larger and it truly fit with us there's something we could evaluate but that's not sort of our starting point.
That's helpful.
Then next question on your response to the AWM margins trajectory I presume that doesn't include any increased costs that you would expect if the most likely deal while fiduciary standards proposal goes through; or even if you consider a range of outcomes from that proposal.
Is that the right way to think about it? My point being that if we're in a flattish type market without significant revenue growth I assume there's going to be incremental costs coming from this new standard.
I think – it's Walter – I think it's a reasonable assumption.
Again we've demonstrated in the past just looking at these sorts of investments that we could have the flexibility to mitigate some of that within the re-engineering base that we look at the business.
But certainly it's a reasonable assumption that it's not included.
We're certainly scenario-ing it but that's it.
Okay.
And then just one other quick one.
The higher frequency in Auto that you mentioned this quarter did that get worse versus 2Q 1Q or is that an elevated frequency level you've been seeing throughout the year? On the Auto I think it's something that is been building and we've been observing it and looking at it and again trying to – watching certainly in the industry coming back on the Auto.
But it's been more of a building element that we've been evaluating than reflecting.
Okay.
And if I could just sneak in one last one on long-term care.
I know you had the favorable actuarial review but on a core basis you still lost money in the business this quarter.
If you continue to lose money is there still risk of a balance sheet charge here if you fast forward to next year? Or do you feel you've got enough flexibility and cushion where we can start to take that off the table as a serious risk? Based on what we're seeing with the price increase is the overall element and certainly the way we – you do know we've exacerbated a little because we've been pretty prudent on our investment strategy and other things at that standpoint but I think you can take it off the table.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Nadel with Piper Jaffray.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
I've got a couple.
If I can just ask maybe a quick housekeeping one first.
I think in the past Walter I don't know if it's been every quarter but you have broken out the margin from the franchisee versus the employee channel for us and I was wondering if you could do the same for third quarter? I think basically the streamline has continued as we talked about it.
Certainly from that standpoint we've seen improvement within it.
We're also seeing from that standpoint we are comfortable with the development that's both taking place in the employee channel and with the franchise channel.
I don't know if we've official broken it out but we just – I don't have the number in front of me but it certainly trend line wise it's – we're feeling comfortable with it.
Okay.
So would it be fair to say that the gap between the two is still closing? Again if you take quarterly the answer is certainly directionally it is closing.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I have a question on variable annuities and their relationship to Advice &amp; Wealth Management revenues.
I mean so really nice nice growth in sales on a year-over-year basis.
I think it was 11%.
And I'm sure that had to help the revenues in Advice &amp; Wealth Management channel.
I guess the question is do you think you're seeing any advisors hold back on VA sales into qualified accounts given any anticipation of some changes there? Or would you say it remains business as usual until a finalized rule is enacted? And then also related to that I know I'm getting a little long-winded here but perhaps you could give us a sense for approximately what percentage of Advice &amp; Wealth Management revenues are being driven by VA sales into qualified accounts? I've estimated it's about 5% of revenues but I'm wondering whether you think that's in the ballpark.
First thing I would say is I do not believe that there is any hold back.
It's an important solution set within it.
And certainly we offer the product.
And I think from our standpoint it's been more of a business as usual.
Again as the percentage I don't really have that in front of me.
It is certainly an important part of the element but I think you consider it relatively small so whether it's 5 or where your range is it's a relatively small.
It's relatively small.
Okay.
And then just one other housekeeping one if my math is reasonable I think your current remaining buyback authorization or at least as of September 30 your remaining authorization is down to around $500 million give or take.
I guess the question is can we expect – the board will re-up the authorization sometime relatively soon.
Is there any reason to expect that the capital deployment strategy you guys have enacted so far would change at all as we look out the next year or more? So the answer to your math is correct.
And certainly we intend to discuss with the board re-upping.
Yeah I don't foresee an issue there.
It's just the timing issue.
Okay.
And then final one is just quick on asset management.
So you've given us some color on what to think about as we look at fourth quarter and a couple of these items that could in terms of flows that could continue to impact the numbers in the fourth quarter but as we turn and look out the 2016 or even a little bit further out than that Jim do you feel like you have enough visibility into what's happening underlying some of this noise to say you feel like you're reaching an inflection point on flows or is it still little bit too soon? No I think listen we've worked very closely and had the teams really diagnose and also put their plans in place.
We have very clear objectives and initiatives underway against the strategy we have and where we think there are opportunities and how to grow against those opportunities.
And again it's you run into sort of environmental market you run into geopolitical of what's happening in China and Asia versus et cetera whether you've got a slowing in Europe versus the U.S.
So all those things if we look and just say hey the world will continue to be a bit more adjusting over time and that's part of the landscape I do see underlying some really good core improvements some really good people and focus that we have that we have brought on board or got channeled into the areas that we're focusing on.
And we do have some very good product and people and performance in those product.
And so no I don't think there is an issue of that we can compete and we can get the flows in the right situation but I think we're part of seeing what the industry pressures are that you see across.
We've had our own one-offs because of whether it's some ex-parent or a portfolio here or there that might have underperformed or just getting re-established as we've integrated Columbia with RiverSource with Threadneedle.
But I think those things are actually moving forward very nicely and we're seeing some good positive both energy and synergies.
So no I actually think there is growth but I'm not going to sit here with a quarter right now because that hasn't actually happened based on the environmental and complements some of the internal.
But no I do see a path forward and I feel positive really positive about the group we have in place.
Excellent.
And sort of following up on your ten-year anniversary from the spin-off I'll leave you with this thought.
Your stock despite some pressure this year is up threefold or more since your spinoff while your former parent is up only about 40%.
So I wonder who misses whom.
Take care.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I had a couple of follow-ups.
On the U.S.
Trust change in the relationship in the fourth quarter can you just quantify the amount of assets that could be impacted by that? I don't have a full thing but we're probably talking a couple of billion something in that neighborhood.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just going back to the AWM margin I know you were asked about and you commented that you'd expect flattish margins if the equity market remains fairly flat.
But if we get more normal equity market lift and – but interest rates remain where they are do you still expect further margin expansion from here over the next few years? Yes.
Yes I do.
And again there's a number of moving parts in there.
As we said we see productivity improvements from our advisors but we're also adding a good number of new advisors that we have incremental cost initially as they ramp-up.
But then all the vintages ramp-up nicely in the productivity.
So it's hard for me to sit here without doing the exact calculations but if equity markets continue to improve yeah we would see a continuing incremental margin over time.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just last one.
Can you just remind us what percentage of Columbia retail sales are distributed through Ameriprise advisors? We're talking in the teens from a sales perspective.
So we're a good provider in our channel.
But we have other good providers but it is not sort of an overly dominant position but we have for good we have a good sales platform here.
But it's one of a good number of another – we have a large number of providers.
So we have good providers in the system as well.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> All right.
That's it.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
My name is Hilda and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Alicia Charity.
Ms.
Charity you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to Ameriprise Financial’s fourth quarter earnings call.
On the call with me today are Jim Cracchiolo Chairman and CEO; and Walter Berman Chief Financial Officer.
Following their remarks we will be happy to take your questions.
During the call you will hear references to various non-GAAP financial measures which we believe provide insight into the company’s operations.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP numbers to the respective GAAP numbers can be found in today’s materials available on our website.
Some statements that we make on this call may be forward-looking reflecting management’s expectations about future events and operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of today’s date and involve a number of risks and uncertainties.
A sample list of factors and risks that could cause actual results to be materially different from forward-looking statements can be found in today’s earnings release our 2014 annual report to shareholders and our 2014 10-K report.
We take no obligation to update publicly or revise these forward-looking statements.
And with that I will turn it over to Jim.
Hello everyone and thanks for joining us for our earnings call.
This morning I’ll provide my perspective on the business and Walter will discuss our financials.
Ameriprise like the industry was impacted by a more volatile market environment during second half of 2015.
Overall our fourth quarter results were solid.
We are executing our strategy and have work to continue to do in certain areas that I’ll discuss.
For the quarter operating net revenues and operating earnings were largely flat with operating EPS up 7%.
And for the full year operating net revenues were up 1% operating earnings grew 3% and operating EPS increased 9%.
In terms of operating return on equity Ameriprise continues to deliver at a differentiated level.
We generated a new record return of 24.3% up a 130 basis points which is one of the best in the industry.
Ameriprise continues to demonstrate strength in our ability to return capital to shareholders returning another $569 million in the quarter.
In fact 2015 represented the fifth consecutive year we return more than 100% of operating earnings to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases while investing for growth and maintaining our capital strength and flexibility.
Very clearly our financial foundation remains in excellent shape.
In total assets under management and administration were $777 billion as solid Ameriprise retail client flows were dampened by asset management outflows market depreciation and an unfavorable foreign exchange impact.
Let’s move to the business results in the quarter.
In Advice &amp; Wealth Management we have a strong business and I feel good about our ability to continue to help advisors build productive practices.
The strength of our Advice value proposition is even more attractive in this environment.
Ameriprise is well positioned to help clients and prospects in every stage of their lives and to address the full spectrum of their needs across both market cycles and their lifetimes.
We’re helping advisors uptake the extension of our successful Confident Retirement approach that we launched last quarter for those who are still building their wealth.
Wealth Builders as we call them represent more than half of our target market consumers with $500 000 to $5 million in investable assets and they value a financial planning relationship.
So this is a real opportunity for us going forward as we introduce it to our entire field force over the coming months.
We continue to invest significantly in our brand and marketing programs that help our advisors spend more time with their clients and grow their practices.
Our Be Brilliant advertising campaign tells our story by illustrating the everyday movements of brilliance that they can realize by working with the right advisor in the right firm.
The campaign is doing well and outperforming competitive norms with all of our key audiences consumers clients and advisors.
We’re complementing our broadcast activity with digital channels like social media and online ads to expand the Ameriprise message and increase engagement with our brand.
Our advisors are taking advantage of Be Brilliant in their local communities in online to gain new clients and assets.
Overall client assets remain strong at $447 billion.
We also had solid flows into fee-based investment advisory accounts and cash positions increased to more than $23 billion.
Clients are naturally taken a more conservative position which is a typical pattern in this environment.
But regard to our advisors Ameriprise’s value proposition and culture is attractive in the industry.
It was another strong quarter for recruiting as more advisors are recognized in the strength of the Ameriprise value proposition.
82 new experienced advisors moved their practices to Ameriprise.
For the year nearly 350 advisors joined Ameriprise in both the franchise and the employee channels.
And so far the pipeline for this year looks strong.
Advisor practices are more productive because of the combination of excellent retention of our most productive advisors very strong recruiting results and our investments in growth.
The advisor productivity a metric that we consistently grow increased 4% year-over-year to $514 000 on a 12-month basis.
We’re well positioned in the marketplace in generating good profitability.
In this environment we’re working closely with our advisors to handle the effects of market volatility with clients.
As clients pullback it’s important to keep them focused and engaged on their goals.
People need to plan for their future and that doesn’t change based on market conditions.
As we look ahead the U.S.
Department of Labor’s pending fiduciary rule will add additional requirements that will have implications for our industry as well as Ameriprise.
We’re hearing the DOL will be issuing the new regulation in the coming months.
With that in mind we’re very much focused on putting together our plans and resources to effectively meet the DOL’s requirements but we need to understand what the final rule will be and how it will impact our clients.
We have the resources compliance infrastructure and capabilities to respond to the DOL’s objectives.
And we believe that our value proposition satisfying client needs for the long-term has been and will continue to be very appropriate.
Let’s move to Annuities and Protection.
I’ll focus more on the underlying business and Walter will cover the financials.
In terms of annuities we continue to see solid sales of our variable annuities with and without living benefits in our channel.
While we are in the outflows it reflects our close third-party book and we remain focused on serving our clients.
Within fixed annuities we continue to have a level of outflows given the book is in runoff as we have not been adding to it given the current rate environment.
Our focus remains on working with advisors to help clients understand the importance of guaranteed income in a well diversified plan.
It’s integrated within our Confident Retirement framework and I feel good about how we’re managing the business developing and enhancing our competitive products and features while managing risk.
Within Protection Life &amp; Health we closed the year with a nice increase in sales driven by UL products.
And while Life claims were higher than a year ago we recognize there will be fluctuations quarter-to-quarter and these movements are within our planned ranges.
We have a good book and we’re working with our advisors to serve clients protection needs.
The environment does create growth challenges for these longer-term products but at the same time it reinforces the importance of protecting what matters most to clients.
In Auto &amp; Home we were disappointed with the financial results in the quarter.
As you saw we did increase reserves this quarter for higher claims experience in some of the older business.
New business is performing in line with our expectations.
Walter will explain that in more detail.
We continue to make a number of enhancements to improve the financial performs and risk characteristics of the business.
We brought in significant resources and leadership to continue to enhance our pricing underwriting and claims management.
We feel that we are making the progress necessary but we recognize it will take time for the benefits to work through book and be fully realized.
Importantly we continue to maintain our strong client satisfaction of affinity relationships in Auto &amp; Home.
In asset management we’re generating solid financial results and executing our strategy focused on gaining market share and profitable flows.
With $472 billion in assets under management we have an at-scale business with a diversified base of assets and earnings and we are focused on serving more individual and institutional clients in key markets globally.
For the quarter operating earnings were $193 million as revenues were largely flat and earnings were down a bit year-over-year from the timing of a few expense items and investments in the business including supporting our new Columbia Threadneedle Investments brand in our key regions of the U.S.
UK Europe and Asia.
Investment performance remains quite strong.
I’d highlight U.S.
and European equities asset allocation and tax exempt fixed income as particular strengths.
Our investment teams in the U.S.
London and Singapore are demonstrating the importance of active management both in terms of capital appreciation as well as preservation given the volatility we’re experiencing.
On the product front in Europe we’re seeing good sales in our UK and European equity products.
Here in the U.S.
we’ve had good traction with sales in large cap equity products as well as in our strategic income fund.
And within the solution space our carrier [ph] (0:10:14) strategy continues to gain interest.
From an overall flows perspective we had about $700 million of net outflows in the quarter with reinvested dividends.
This did include a higher level of outflows at U.S.
Trust.
However underlying flow trends are improving and I’ll take you through it.
Let’s start with institutional.
Total outflows were driven by about $6 billion in net outflows of former parent assets largely driven by outflows of low fee fixed income common trust funds in IMA’s at U.S.
Trust given the changes they have made.
We mentioned this last quarter and expect continued IMA outflows of several billion dollars at U.S.
Trust in the first half of 2016.
In addition we and others in the industry continue to experience outflows from a large client who redeemed from strong performing strategies to address liquidity concerns.
That was approximately $1.4 billion in the quarter and we expect at least $1 billion of additional outflow in the first quarter.
These two components low-fee former parent assets in a single large client muted continue progress in third-party institutional flows.
We have strong client and consultant relationships a solid list of one not funded mandates and a good pipeline which we expect will drive flows this year.
Let’s now move to retail.
In the U.S.
we’re seeing positive trends from the work the team has done to focus our sales strategy.
However this was muted from a flows perspective given continued outflows in the Acorn Fund.
The fund short-term performance has improved from the changes we’ve made including adding an experienced lead PM who came onboard at year end.
We expect outflows will continue to near-term as the team reestablishes the funds longer-term track record.
In addition in the quarter we made the decision to end the subadvisory relationship with Marsico Capital Management given the strength of our global investment capabilities.
This resulted in a few hundred million of outflows in the fourth quarter.
We plan to ask shareholders to support our plans to merge certain funds in 2016.
In addition we expect outflows of about $700 million in Marsico managed institutional SMA’s in the first quarter.
Based upon the previous servicing relationship with them these outflows will have no financial impact.
Overall we’ve been able to grow gross sales and market share in the larger broker dealer and independent channel in the past year at a time when gross sales declined for the industry.
This bodes well as industry sales may pick up down the line.
We recognize we need to do more to increase both gross and net sales in U.S.
retail but I feel good about the business the team in place and our strategy.
We’re seeing early results.
With regard to European retail we continue to build on our strong presence in the UK and serve more clients in key markets on the continent.
At $1.4 billion in the quarter European retail flows bounced back strongly from a tough third quarter.
The market environment so far this year is clearly challenging but we’re focused on what we can control.
We’re generating strong performance for clients.
We have a good product line and distribution.
I feel good about the team in place the moves we are making and the traction we have in key initiatives and asset management.
Overall the company is performing well and our core businesses are strong.
Ameriprise delivered solid earnings in a more difficult environment.
Higher market volatility and declines have clearly shaped the start of 2016.
We’ve managed through difficult market cycles before and we’re very much focused on executing our strategy connecting with clients and advisors and driving results.
Ameriprise has the ability and long-term perspective to continue to invest as we navigate the environment capture our opportunities and generate shareholder value.
We have a strong track record of returning capital to shareholders and intent to continue to return to shareholders as we have as well as maintain our excellent financial foundation.
We’re focused on keeping the company strong as we look for further growth opportunities.
With that I’d like to hand things over to Walter to review the numbers.
Thank you Jim.
I’d like to build on what Jim shared with you as we review the financial results.
As context markets were volatile and on a downward trend in the second half of 2015 which impacted revenues for our growth businesses.
However the results we delivered in the quarter were strong.
The one exception is Auto &amp; Home business where we were disappointed with the results which I’ll cover in more detail when I review the segments.
We remained opportunistic in repurchasing our stock at an elevated level in the quarter given the pull back in the valuation and still believe our stock is undervalued.
Our capacity to buyback stock remains strong given our balance sheet fundamentals and the business mix generates strong free cash.
We are committed to maintaining a differentiated level of capital return.
Let’s turn to Slide 4.
Macro conditions impact revenue in a few ways.
We had limited equity appreciation which impacted asset under management.
Volatility also suppress client activity and contributed to asset management outflows.
Low interest rates remained a headwind for our insurance and annuity businesses and foreign exchange translation impacted asset levels and earnings.
These impacts were felt across all financial services companies and we are not unique in this regard.
As you can see total revenue growth was not at the level we had seen in the past.
All the markets and lower interest rates which decreased AUM and client activity slowed.
This muted the impact of areas where we successfully built the wealth management business through increased wrap flows growth in insurance and annuity sales and building cash sweep levels as clients wait for a less volatile environment to make investment decisions.
Let’s turn to Slide 5.
Ameriprise delivered solid growth in EPS and return on equity demonstrating the multiple leverage we have to manage the business and variety of market environments.
Specifically we managed G&amp;A expenses investing for growth in targeted areas but remaining disciplined.
This combined with solid tax planning and share repurchase supported good 7% EPS growth.
The operating effective tax rate was 20.1% in the quarter which is lower than we had anticipated driven by the level of dividends received deduction coming in harder than we expected.
Turning to segment performance starting with AWM on Slide 6.
The Advice &amp; Wealth Management business continues to perform well delivering solid financial results.
Operating net revenue was $1.3 billion in the quarter up 1% from last year.
Our revenue growth slowed due to the impact of market levels of volatility and didn’t experience the typical lift we have seen from markets.
Wrap net flows were quite good at $2.1 billion despite the deterioration in the markets and flat client activity levels.
Total expenses increased 2% year-over-year driven by higher distribution expense.
G&amp;A expenses in the quarter were flat year-over-year and also flat for the full year 2015 versus full year 2014.
On a sequential basis we had a normal uptick in G&amp;A related to elevated advertising spend and other timing related items in the quarter.
This resulted in earnings of $210 million and a strong margin of 16.6%.
Margin for the full year was up to 17.1% from 16.5% in the prior year.
Results were achieved with little benefit of increasing short interest rates.
We had $23.5 billion of brokerage cash balances.
We anticipate a more material benefit in the first quarter from this fed rate hike with a majority of the first 25 basis point increase flowing to the bottom line.
Asset management continues to provide a solid contribution to our revenue and earnings as you’ll see on Slide 7.
Operating net revenue is essentially flat at $833 million reflecting marginal growth in equity markets and the cumulative impact of net outflows partially offset by strong CLO benefits and the performance fees in the quarter.
Expenses were up due to elevated performance fee compensation as well as the timing of certain project related cost.
We remain committed to delivering strong profitability by tightly managing expenses.
Pretax operating earnings were $193 million down 3% from last year.
Again this reflects the impact of marks and outflows partially offset by elevated performance fees.
Turning to annuities on Slide 8 the segment is performing in line with our expectations.
Variable annuity pretax earnings increased $6 million from a year ago to $129 million.
We are maintaining good profitability in this book.
Fixed annuity pretax earnings declined to $23 million due to elevated lapses as the block runs off as it comes out of the surrender charge period.
Given the current interest rate environment there are limited new sales and as a result this book is expected to gradually run off and earnings will trend down.
Turning to the protection segment on the next slide.
Pretax operating earnings were $35 million in the quarter.
Let’s focus on Life &amp; Health first.
Pretax operating earnings benefited from $28 million from an assumption change related to our waiver reserve.
Underlying earnings were pressured by elevated life and long-term care claims which were at the higher end of our expectations as well as continued low interest rates in the mix-shift from VUL to iUL.
Moving to Auto &amp; Home we were disappointed with the results in the quarter.
We built reserves by $57 million primarily in the auto book from the 2014 and prior accident years.
Driving this was elevated frequency and severity experience for auto injury claims which is in line with the trends the industry has experienced.
Additionally we did not see the level of impact in improving the outcome of 2014 and prior accident year existing claims as much as we’d previously expected.
We’ve been focused on operational improvements this year including our pricing to risk.
We have begun rate actions on almost 95% of the Auto base and approximately 80% of the Home which will take time to be seen in the financial results.
These actions have been effective in slowing sales across product lines and performance for 2015 accident year is in line for our expectations.
While results in the quarter did not meet our expectations we are aggressively pursuing additional business improvements anticipate better profitability in 2016.
Let’s turn to the balance sheet on Slide 10.
Our balance sheet fundamentals remain strong.
Our excess capital is approximately $2.5 billion with an RBC ratio of approximately 640%.
Our hedging program has been quite effective and the investment portfolio remains strong and I will get into our energy exposure momentarily.
We continue to return over a 100% of operating earnings to shareholders with $569 million distributed through dividends and share repurchase in the quarter.
For the year we returned $2.1 billion to shareholders which was a 125% of operating.
Looking into 2016 we plan to return 90% to 100% of earnings to shareholders as a baseline.
But we will be optimistic based on valuation.
There has been a lot of interest in the energy sector given our oil prices.
So I’d like to take a few minutes to give you more detail on our portfolio.
As you’ll see on Slide 11 we have approximately $3.3 billion of energy sector exposure.
The duration is short on these energy holdings with over 35% maturing in less than three years.
We feel quite comfortable with our holdings for the following reasons.
We have a consistent rigorous research process behind our investment decisions.
As we analyze investment opportunities we consider low commodity prices when we analyze stress test and purchase energy company volumes.
Our analysis focuses on key variable such as a company’s core structure balance sheet health flexibility of CapEx budget asset coverage and our assessment of management quality and behaviors.
Approximately $1.2 billion of our energy exposure is to pipelines which are essentially the infrastructure to move oil oil products and natural gas from the producer to the end users.
The vast majority of our exposure is with a handful of the largest U.S.
pipeline operators.
These pipeline operators are highly regulated and receive most of their revenues from contracts where the customers pay a reservation charge regardless of the quantity and price of product being moved.
In many cases these pipeline assets originate at the wellhead making this pipeline infrastructure essential to the producers.
Additionally contract terms with producers and customers are generally multi-year in duration.
The rest of our energy exposure focuses on large diversified North American-based companies.
While we anticipate that some investment grade holdings maybe downgraded to high-yield by the rating industries.
We do believe that these companies have the financial flexibility to weather this extreme pricing environment.
We have already seen these management teams taking aggressive actions that we would expect of them.
Reducing their cost structures cutting capital expenditures related to future production growth reducing or eliminating dividends undertaking asset sales and even issuing equity all with an eye towards living within cash flow as these distressed commodity prices continue.
So far we have only two downgrades from investment grade to high-yield in the energy space.
The last thing I’ll mention is that the team we have in place today is the same team that managed our portfolio well during the global financial crisis.
In fact approximately 30% of our overall energy exposure was purchased in 2008 and 2009 when commodity and bond prices were last near these levels.
Overall I feel very good about our financial performance in the quarter and in the year.
We delivered solid earnings growth in the face of challenging market conditions.
2016 is off to a difficult start with continued market deterioration and volatility which will pressure results if it persists.
However we have managed through challenging environments in the past and we have the levers to do so this year.
We have an excellent track record returning capital to shareholders in a meaningful way and will continue to do so opportunistically.
With that we will take your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question from Ryan Krueger from KBW.
Hey thanks good morning.
First question is can you give us a rough sense of the fee rate differential between the former parent related outflow that you’ve referenced at the low fee and new sales at this point? If you’re looking for the differential from the – the differential that we had on from a basis point on fee that’s what you’re talking about? Yeah or even distressed roughly… Okay roughly approximately again for the inflows and outflows again looking at that as we talk about the low base point it was about nine point differential between the inflows were about nine points higher than the outflows.
And obviously the U.S.
Trust element was substantially lower than – at the lower end of flow basis points revenue.
Okay got it that’s helpful.
And then secondly have you seen any improvement in the M&amp;A environment given lower property valuation in the asset management sector? I would say that there seems to be a bit more activity going on I think the stuff that was out there a little over the course of this year was still at a bit more elevated price but I would probably see if we continue in this environment that things would probably either come forth more or be in a better valuation basis.
Okay.
And then just last quickly.
Do you have a tax rate expectation for 2016? Yes.
Right now we – it should in the range of 24% to 26%.
Okay.
Great thank you.
We have question from Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Good morning everybody.
So I realize we ended the year with a pretty challenging environment with deteriorating and volatile markets but it seems like this is continuing this year.
Can you give us any sense of how the first month of the year is looking for you? What I would probably say is with the increase volatility at the beginning of the year we’ll probably going to see client activity slow a bit as people sort of get to a better perspective of where the markets are balancing out to put more money to work.
I think as you saw in the fourth quarter even though we had good client inflows we did build cash balances usually what you find is you begin the year those cash balances will go to work a lot quicker in the first quarter.
We’re probably seeing and being held more now until the volatility sort of calms down there’s a little more direction to the markets.
Okay.
And then if we turn to the Auto &amp; Home business.
I understand it was a little disappointing on year end as well.
Do you still expect it to be profitable in 2016 as you had indicated earlier? Certainly from the standpoint the action we’ve taken in and certainly looking at the 2014 we – our expectations are that it should but it’s going to be at the real low-end of that profitability.
Okay.
And I guess I am surprised a little bit to see the continued – the continued prior-year reserve developments and now I guess going back to 2014 as well.
I haven’t really seen that coming from other auto players in the industry.
And I’m just curious what is it that that really makes this business so difficult to get the reserves right for particularly in Ameriprise’s case? Well okay.
Let me try to answer it.
Again I can only take you through what we see in the industry statistics and other things like.
But when you’re looking as long date as you look at BI under-insured and fiscal damage what you’re seeing there is we had claims on the books looking at this and this is typical I think for the industry and as I go through their aging cycle the environment has become a lot more litigious and I think that’s not just exclusively for us I think that is an overall situation.
And the – basically assessing as we looked it we added the staff and certainly started looking at the claims performance and aspects it realized and this was more and more our case reserves were we need to be bolstered as it relates to the 2014 and prior.
And again if you look at up to 2014 you are looking at probably more severity and in 2014 combination of severity and frequency.
So we therefore how do we increase our case reserves to do that we are now believe certainly assessing the situation that we have – we’re more confident that these reserves will be adequate and certainly that the amount of staff.
But I think the reason why I don’t see some of it even though – again we talk about claims on liability have deteriorated I think there are other firms probably have high reserve capabilities basically or whether that situation and we did not as we were building.
Last year when we built reserves we would built in more – we went into 2014 we were caught that what we reserving in that year as we indicated was – when we assessed it at the end of day it was not adequate and that’s were the majority of that money went.
We’ve seen for every deterioration like I said in BI and UAM and UM.
Great thank you very much.
We have a question from Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Hi.
Thank you.
I just had a couple questions about Advice &amp; Wealth Management expenses.
First how much of your G&amp;A expenses variable cost? So if you do see revenue pressure from market conditions how should we think about the impact on margins? Again as you look the – as a rough rule of thumb again it’s three category fixed – semi-variable and variable I would say variable in that case would be about its third and again from that standpoint and certainly we’ve demonstrated in the past our ability to approximately assessed the situation see what expenditures provide this sort of return and we do so we have flexibility.
Got it.
And can you help us think about the level of expenses you may need to incurred to comply with the DOL rules and as this something you maybe able to offset to reengineering or should we expect some net impact in 2016 once kind of the final rules are out? No right now we are assessing obviously from the standpoint the rules have not been distributed but certainly we realized that if we reread it – depending on there will be development expense and there will be some on going operational expense.
We hope to then certainly we’ve been in a plan for mode at this stage trying to be proactive.
But again not having the full elements of that is difficult to put a number on.
But it will – we will then look to what reengineering and basically repositioning we would have to do.
And I think that is something as this comes out we’ll be more direct about it.
And again it’s something that we are focusing on and be part of the development I don’t know if Jim wants… Yes.
I think what I would say right now is we do – we have mobilized our resources.
We’re looking at all aspects from the compliance to the technology to training necessary for the advisor force.
And we will go into the deployment of that as soon as we know exactly what the rule looks like.
We’re doing some work already to prep for that and get a various activities under way that we think based on some of the directions that we are in the previous proposal and that’s already in the functional requirements and stuff from a tech perspective.
Depending on how significant that is and what the changes we think we do have the capabilities to accommodate that or adjust for it.
There will be impacts and expense from it we will offset some of that based on what we will tighten the range and for some other things we might have underway as this takes a priority.
So there will be some offset there.
Having said that I couldn’t tell you in the short-term depending on how aggressive the timetable for implementation is what we would have to do to heavy up on some of the resourcing necessary but as I said I think Ameriprise will be one of the companies that would have the ability to deal with this more effectively.
We do have the resource capability and can move things around to try to accommodate that.
And we will set up so that in the end hopefully we will be a place that would be a better able to serve.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
Good morning everybody.
First question is related to Advice &amp; Wealth Management I’m curious Jim market volatility and maybe client activity slowing certainly make some sense.
And it’s sort of a continuation from what we saw in the third quarter.
I’m just curious whether you’re seeing or you believe you’re seeing any impact just yet in the results from the proposal – from the DOL proposal or are advisors already starting to adjust? No.
I would say as advisors are as curious as you all are to what exactly this will mean et cetera.
And we’re starting to give them a little better sense and communication on that.
What I would just say is I think what you’re seeing more near-term is more of the volatility picked up in the market.
And you have some – in our case we run a lot of assets in the Management fee-based business and so you have that depreciation at the end of the third quarter.
But as you saw we still got $2 billion into our outflows our cash balances increased by a few billion.
So I think at the end of the day activities still going on.
I think people are just like you and I probably looking and saying is there another leg down what is it? What’s the level of volatility? I think on the other side we are not seeing wholesale changes to client activity or people pulling money or anything like that but I think people are more stayed in tune.
There’s still money going to work and some people are using this as an opportunity.
But I think at the end of day I think the increased volatility always gives people a little pause.
And then related to that Jim most of – I think at this point most of your competitors who have some sort of an advice base business have really tried to quantify at least provide some sensitivity around where they might expect to see some of the impacts from the DOL proposal.
Assuming it goes through as it’s currently written in it and it seems more more likely that there won’t be any significant changes to it.
I’m just wondering now – many months to evaluate the proposal whether you can help us with some sensitivities on where you might see some impacts on your revenues and margins? What I would say is this – I think one of the things people have identified is the idea that if they’re unable to sell rates et cetera or some of the type of broker transactions into the qualified accounts and what would that do to revenue.
I would just say over the course of this year based on changes in regulations and other things and where the market was our advisors pulled back from that.
So I think that pullback from that’s going to be less significant because it was already occurred in on numbers in 2015 in a large way because you know there are a level of changes happening there already.
I think in regard to the business overall it really depends on where the DOL comes out with their best interest contract exemption.
And if they truly are giving you the ability to do commission-based business within that and to satisfy your obligations there that’s one method.
If they’re saying no we don’t like that and we want to move more to fee-based.
Yes we can accommodate that as well.
We’re trying to figure out which way that – as far as the actual final rule.
You would imagine that there’s going to be some increase in compliance and cost disclosure and various things like that but over time we will get everything adjusted for it.
It’s hard to really say we probably see some adjustments that would happen in the idea of the commission type business for these accounts.
We do see that – a lot of our annuity business.
I know that was one of the things that people mentioned but a lot of our annuity business today very very little almost none of it is done without the extra debt benefits or living guarantees or something that.
Again the administration has said that’s still important.
So we are still under the impression that under the best interest contract you can still actually do those things as long as you satisfy the requirements of the value provided and what that is and how you disclose it et cetera.
So that’s why I’m saying it’s kind of hard to give you an adjustment.
But we have all the what if’s depending on where we go what we’re planning on doing is as soon as we get that information we’ll come out in a more informed way and let you know what that is.
We already know that there are a number of offsets that we can do by adjusting things including what fees we charge and don’t charge and where we do it.
On the other side of it it’s hard to tell exactly what is permissible at this point.
I hope that – I wish – but I don’t want to get ahead of my skis on this.
No I understand.
And if I can just ask one more question on the asset management side.
Just curious whether you could help us with what the underlying either the fee rate or the operating margin what that looked like in the segment in the quarter if you adjusted out the performance fees in the CLO again? Okay.
Yes on that basis it would be pretty similar to what you’ve seen before in the 53% range.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Thanks and good morning.
On the capital management perspective I know you’re sticking with your baseline of around 100% return of capital in terms of dividends and buybacks it is 125% last year given the drop in the share price which I think is largely due to macro conditions.
Is there a hard stop in terms of what percentage of annual earnings the company would return to shareholders buybacks and dividends? I don’t believe we have a hard stop we certainly evaluated and look to see our assessment of the shares on the value in the environment and we certainly understand the fundamentals of the business.
So we have the capacity and capability.
So there is no hard stop on it but as we’ve seen in different years we moved to 120% 125%.
So we will assess that based upon the circumstances of the – how we feel about the environment and obviously the excess position that we have.
But we do believe the shares are undervalued right now and opportunistically we will certainly assess that and what like we did in the last quarter and certainly with the price being down certainly you have more bang for your buck with the money being spent.
Okay.
My next question is on Advice &amp; Wealth.
The margin in the fourth quarter did not increase for the first time for any quarter I think over three years.
I’m just wondering what that means on an ongoing basis? Do you feel in this environment especially given what’s happened in the first quarter with equity markets that there’s any chance of margin improving versus the 17.1% in 2015.
What I would say is this if you look at the fourth quarter actually the fourth quarter margin is pretty good.
I mean our overall revenue stayed it didn’t go down or anything like that.
But we had an impact because the lower markets at the end of the third quarter and as our wrap fee business builds at the beginning of that quarter – through the quarter.
You sure of that it would be impacted because assets are depreciated by – it was 8% or 10% whatever it was from the beginning at the end of the third quarter.
So did have some impact in the revenue based on the billings for low – from the depreciation that occurred.
The transaction activity was pretty much consistent with previous quarters it didn’t necessarily go down in the fourth quarter.
We usually see a little more activity that happening at the end of the year the way our expenses sort of a crew particularly as we do our advertising because that’s really a fall campaign as an example advertising expenses picked up in the quarter but that’s consistent with the prior year and the year before that et cetera.
So expenses always go up a little in the quarter.
On a full-year basis we’re still only relatively flat in G&amp;A and year-over-year in G&amp;A is consistent because of the quarterly accruals.
So I would just say what happens is you always have that little extra expense coming in the fourth quarter because our advertising campaign there was an extra payroll week et cetera pay period and things like that but we didn’t increase expenses at all.
And what happened was we didn’t get the lift of revenue needed from all the wrap balances coming in previous quarters because the market depreciated.
So that’s why the margin compressed.
Now going forward I think if you’d say the markets up 10% from where we were in the equity it’s going to impact our fees I mean we run a very large fee-based business.
So I would say margins were compressive the markets don’t bounce back only because that’s going to take a chunk out of your revenue.
Now we’ll adjust and think about expenses but again you can only adjust expenses going out not necessary for what’s there today.
Yes that makes sense.
Jim for the overall company… On the other side interest maybe a little more of a benefit because the short rate was up 25 basis points.
So that will help us in the first quarter.
I don’t know the actual numbers one versus the other depends on where the markets are.
Right.
Jim for the overall company in 2016 included there’s a benefit on EPS from the share buyback but directionally would it be pretty reasonable to expect kind of a flat EPS in 2016 given pressures especially from equity markets? I haven’t done the calculations in my head yet because I’m trying to figure out the markets but I let Walter to go over that.
I think listen the markets as Jim said are certainly effect us.
And the thing that we then have to assess is the impact it has on the client behavioral aspects and then the actions that we think are prudent to sustained growth and everything’s in that and how you adjusted.
So there’s a lot of elements there but it certainly a challenging… About buyback and the EPS… But the buyback again you will have an impact on it but again is it going to be able to negate I can’t say at that stage as we assess the – those other variables.
All right.
Thank you for the insight.
We have a question from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Hi good morning.
Just I wanted to go back to Auto &amp; Home for a second.
Is there anything structural about that business whether the distribution relationship you have with Costco or anything like that that would preclude your ability to either exit it or use reinsurance to free capital? From the standpoint of exiting free capital there is no restrictions from that standpoint.
And the other thing I would say Suneet the basic business fundamentals of this and certainly looking at it – we’ve looked at it and we’ve had outside consultants look at it the basic fundamentals is quite solid.
But in the contractual elements I think we can certainly manage the balance sheet.
Yes but Suneet I mean we do run a direct affinity business and our partnerships are very critical to that business.
And so very important is this is why our business is something we want to get back to a really good state.
And we want to then ensure that we’re continuing to deliver.
And we are and have been and that really has reinforced the idea of our growth over the last number of years.
Now with that as I said the most appropriate for us for a shareholders from a relationship from a partnership and the longevity of the business is to get this back to a good strong state.
And then that gives us a lot more ability to think of and how to continue to force the good partnerships or good arrangements for the future.
Okay.
But I guess we’re looking at a difficult 2015 very low profitability in 2016.
It doesn’t sound like there’s anything structural that would prevent you from exiting.
We’ve run the math that suggests if you free capital from it it would be more EPS accretive than turning it around.
And that was when the stock price was I think I don’t know $105 and now we’re looking at $20 lower than that.
So why is that math wrong? I can’t – our math and when we look at it it is – we – as Jim has said the business we believe is fundamentally a sound business.
We believe it’s in the best interest from the shareholder perspective to take the approach that we are.
And so I know certainly it’s taking this reserve increase certainly is impactful.
We do believe the structural elements moving forward for us are good as we talked about them.
And we do – we have a view that from a shareholder basis fixing it and assessing is the best approach.
You know it takes time to get these price increases these price to risk elements adjusted through and we certainly focus on the infrastructure the investment we’ve made in people and capabilities will pay dividends for us.
And relationships are unique and very valuable and certainly provide the capability to have good returns forward.
And we certainly are trying to fix – we think we have addressed the old now we are moving forward and putting in place but it does take time to get there.
And we did miss on the basis of how much impact we could have with the 2014 prior.
That’s our view of it.
And Suneet we do evaluate we’re not looking and we do evaluate all various options and ability.
I would just tell you that based on everything would including other people looking et cetera that this is the way to create the best shareholder value and to maintain the strength of that business for the future for whatever it may come than what we’re doing right now.
So I know looking at it from just a mechanic and what you think but I would probably say being a bit more in understanding it.
Now that’s where we come out and we will get this back to where it’s in good shape and in some way creating a future shareholder value of greater means.
Okay.
I guess we will revisit that.
Then in terms of the excess capital and the buyback maybe to follow up on Jay Gelb’s question it just seems to me that you have – there’s $2.5 billion of excess capital.
It’s a pretty sizable component of your total equity.
Market doesn’t seem to giving you any credit for that excess capital.
So I know you want to be opportunistic but can you flush out a little bit more just maybe the pace of buyback just so we get a sense of how aggressive you’re thinking about being? Again I think we’ve been – as we look to 2015 certainly looked at the latter half of 2015 we certainly accelerated the base and certainly from the dollar standpoint and certainly in the number of shares as the elements there.
So we do believe – as we assess that sort of positioning is the right one to continue with.
But we look at it each quarter and assess the impact.
So I think it’s a good gauge maybe – from our standpoint being optimistic about it that what we did in the latter half of the year is something that is a barometer to start that we would continue with where the price is.
And but again we get into assessing the excess the environment we feel very comfortable about that.
So I think it’s a pretty good barometer if you use the latter half of the year.
All right.
So filled in 425 for quarter and maybe there’s some opportunistic upside to that? It seems like that’s latter half of the year.
Okay.
Thanks.
We have our question from Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
So first just a follow-up on that last question can you talk about priorities right now? Obviously you’re – you’ve upsized the buyback a little bit in the latter half of the year.
But I know you’ve also discussed contemplating M&amp;A.
Can you talk about just given where your stock is whether M&amp;A opportunities are still on the table? Or is your money to better put to work just through buybacks right now? That’s my first question.
No.
M&amp;A is definitely on the table and if we see things that come along that are appropriate for us we have the means to do it.
I think having the capital position we do have gives us the flexibility.
We won’t have to go out and leverage ourselves to do something bigger.
We wouldn’t have to go raise equity in a difficult market which doesn’t make a lot of sense.
And over time we also can return back in a more what I would call stronger way so that you always have something there in addition to whether you’re in a weak market requirement to buy back more.
So that’s the way we thought about it.
I mean I remember before the financial crisis a number of investors asked us to and analyst why aren’t we returning more? Why don’t we go out in the risk curve? Why don’t we get more higher-yielding instruments et cetera et cetera? And I think they thanked me afterward in a sense that we kept the company on a consistent path we did appropriately having the flexibility in the means to navigate and we did have the opportunity than to do a bigger deal even though we had to do because it was a little bigger deal because the environment was still unsettled.
We actually just did some equity at the same time.
So I would just say Ameriprise is very well situated.
And if this market gets even more difficult I think we’re actually one of the stronger players to actually be able to capitalize on it.
If it doesn’t we’ll be able to continue to buy back our stock at good numbers and still be able to keep the company strong not knowing what the next step for the turn of the environment or an M&amp;A comes along.
So I actually think were situated well and this is actually kind of a good environment for Ameriprise in that sense.
Got you.
And Walter just a question on Advice &amp; Wealth margin.
So and I realize you may not have the precise answer this time but I just want to know if you can answer this directionally.
A little better than 16.5% margins in Advice &amp; Wealth in 4Q was lower than where it’s been trending lately.
But if I consider the benefit you’re going to get from higher short-term rates plus the seasonal expense reduction that you typically get from 4Q to 1Q and then I consider the offset of the weaker revenues assuming we don’t change a lot from current market levels would you still expect margins to be lower than the 4Q level? Or I should just ask it this way would you expect margins to come in below the level of 4Q or can you give us a sense directionally? Directionally certainly as Jim has indicated the market reduction and the deterioration impacts it but again you’re talking about margin.
So the question is really getting to base profitability and then of course remember revenues going to be moving and also profitability and the actions we then take.
I think the elements – the moving parts of the market both interest and with equity certainly compounds a little but then the actions we will be taking as we look at that in the interest lift.
Underlying direction of the business is solid so I think and then – but the question is client behavior so it is a difficult question.
The fundamentals are there but we do get impacted by these variables that we just can’t control.
That’s the non-controllable side then we get to the action that we take to manage the business.
So margins are tough one because you got moving – a lot of moving parts on it but profitability certainly will be impacted by the drop in the equity marks offset by the interest lift.
And then it’s a matter of how it affects the client activity both from the level and then the shifting right.
So that’s why it’s a tough one really is.
But the fundamentals where we’re going is solid certainly from that standpoint.
As Jim has said we’re attracting advisors we’re certainly feel comfortable about the fundamentals of business.
And so there’s no change from that standpoint.
Got you.
Yes please.
I’m sorry… Just one last follow-up if I could on the asset management business.
The spike in the U.S.
Trust net outflows can you comment a bit about the pool of assets that remain that you believe are at risk the level of outflows that you expect going forward? I presume we are going to keep getting leakage.
But this one was obviously kind of a jumbo redemption quarter on that end.
But can you give a little color in terms of where you see that trending? Yes.
So let me just say a few things on that and I know that was a bit of a sizable number.
And as you saw it it came out of the institutional section.
So this is very very low-fee type of assets.
We were doing the business it was part of an in-house operation et cetera that we had as part of Columbia we were supporting the U.S.
Trust business.
And it’s unfortunate that they are taking it back in-house actually to manage it and it’s all fixed income assets.
Having said that even though we don’t like to lose it it’s a very different on a fee basis than the business that we are riding and continue to do.
I think so it will be another few billion we understand we don’t know exactly.
I mean we’re not sitting here and saying we taking these accounts and different clients et cetera but we can say it could be another few billion.
Having said that I will be very clear our stronger business with U.S.
Trust is a funds business and an equity products and all those various things and those continue on.
It would be nice if I was able to just – not just report flows as the flown number in total but again this is part of when you do deal that has a proprietary business and you’ve taken it over.
You are going to have some of those things.
We still have our Zurich and we still have a good account good relationship good overall fee basis.
So what I would say in looking through this and I’ll just give you some numbers.
And as you know the fourth quarter wasn’t a great quarter for the industry and outflows because of what’s happening.
But I would say if you take out the U.S.
Trust particularly around this and the normal Zurich that was $6.6 billion of our outflow okay.
And even though we don’t like that per se it was the lower fee end of the spectrum there in that regard.
If you then look at all of retail retail would’ve only been out $1.6 billion.
This is before reinvested dividends and all of that was the Acorn Fund.
So if we can continue to improve that performance et cetera in this study we’re actually moved to almost a net neutral on our retail.
And we’re making some good progress in growing in the core retail channels and Europe is continues to be good for us.
Then you look at institutional and here again you take out the U.S.
Trust which was buried in there and at the end of the day what you really have is on net $1 billion out.
And that’s in a tough market where institutions aren’t necessarily funding at this point in time.
And that $1 billion funding 1/4 of it was one client and that client has taken a lot more out of the industry.
So as I’m looking at this and it’s hard to see based on you’re seeing the total number.
We’re actually are making some underlying progress.
The industry in total last year in active funds have been out $200 billion of numbers.
And so we’re starting to gain traction in the areas that are important for us that are higher fee more consistent where our good investment product is et cetera.
But it is a tough environment.
So the U.S.
Trust listen we love that relationship et cetera.
But they’re going to make the adjustments as they need to.
And right now some of this lower fee stuff is going away.
But we still have a very good relationship with very good product in there with some of the stronger activity and the types of areas we want it.
And Zurich will be Zurich but it’s a great ongoing account for us.
But it’s going to be an outflow because part of that book is pretty closed.
So I don’t know how to describe it any different for you what I’m trying to say and more importantly is we’re focused on those things that we would really grow.
We got a good diversified business.
And as the environment continues where money gets put back to work I think will be in even better stead than we were going into 2015 that we are coming out of 2015.
Okay thanks.
And our last question comes from Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks so much for working in here at the end.
Jim my questions really involve asking you to build on some of your earlier responses.
First with respect to the margin in the brokerage business and the Advice &amp; Wealth Management.
I thought I heard you say that activity levels while depressed from where they were at their peak were roughly in line – did not change much from the activity levels in the September quarter.
So my question is is activity levels were in fact unchanged if expenses were well controlled and if the stock market – I’m looking at the average level of the S&amp;P and I believe I have it right when I say that it was actually up modestly compared to the average in 2014 fourth quarter – if the stock – if you got a little bit of a lift from the stock market good expense control and stable client activity why did that combination not lead to a further improvement in profit margins? So Eric I think what it is is what we’ve said is if you look at the numbers in the fourth quarter I mean revenue quarter-to-quarter was actually relatively the same little slightly up.
Yes.
There are two things one is the revenue would have been higher if at the end of the third quarter the markets that didn’t pullback.
You remember the markets went into 1 800 in August September.
And so what happened is you have all your wrap assets under management that you bill fees starting in October beginning of October through the quarter.
And so some of those fees being billed were at lower absolute production because the fee level was based on the assets level and that just climb back towards the quarter to the end of the quarter.
So you don’t just build at the end of the quarter.
So that’s was really what took out some of the production that happens on the asset side of the equation right? And so that’s part.
The second part of it very clearly is and we’ve had it in the fourth quarter is we do have some other G&amp;A expense even though we managed the G&amp;A expense flat over the year when we put our advertising campaigns we usually go on the air at the end of September with the bulk of that being October and November beginning of December.
And so we accrue for that expense when we are actually on the air and that’s millions of dollars to run that campaign which is not in the third and second quarter.
Now over the course of the year since we didn’t increase our advertising year-over-year it’s the same fourth quarter to fourth quarter if you look at the expenses and the supplemental you’ll see that expenses did not go up and for the full year were pretty flat on G&amp;A.
Eric it’s Walter.
So let me just – one point because he was talking about rates and certainly if you look at and I can understand from your perspective – that looking at the S&amp;P and looking you would see it’s up marginally but what we do is run a weighted index related to the assets that we hold.
And if you actually look at that on both on average and on ending its down.
So it’s not just the S&amp;P again we actually do the earning rate assets that we have and it’s down.
So that is what Jim was explaining that is certainly – it impacts the fee base.
And Jim if I could wrap up just by asking about the – further about the fiduciary matter are you saying that there will be – should I take away from your comment that there will be an impact on revenue but that the impact will be muted by the fact that there is already been a pullback in some activity? No Eric.
What I – and so let me clarify if I wasn’t clear.
Okay.
Thank you.
What I said is – I think when some people have come out publicly earlier in 2015 and said oh it will only be X or it is X because of REITs et cetera and this is the percentage over the business I do in that what I said is a lot of that business actually reduced tremendously for us in 2015.
And so I don’t have the exact number may be Alicia has it but I think we did not do a lot of production and REITs and it wasn’t necessarily in that production we did a lot in the qualified area.
But she can give you the numbers on it so what I said is they were identifying a little more of that if that went away.
We say looking and reading the DOL’s proposal before all the commentary there are number of things that are going to be affected.
The question is they also said that they would allow for certain business to be done under a best interest exemption standard that you would apply for and you would actually adhere to and you would disclose on et cetera.
Depending on what they finalized there will depend on whether you can continue to do a lot of the business you’re currently doing today under greater disclosure in a contract and et cetera et cetera or that that would have to be addressed to more of a fee-based type of basis in which case you would have to figure out with those clients whether it’s appropriate to move.
So I can’t give you what the – what that would look like yet until I know it.
What I’m saying is there are different ways that we think that we can manage and leave the business through if those exemptions are there and if you were able to execute appropriately against them and if not there are some alternatives.
Part of the activity would be do you serve some of the smaller accounts against smaller accounts are a little more costly.
So part of that is you’ve got to look at your business model appropriately in that regard.
So I don’t have a perfect answer to that’s all I said is it will have an effect on the industry it will increase some cost the question is what do you do over time and can you offset some of that.
And on the revenue side again I think there are some alternatives but I don’t know until the final rule and if it as the final rules as you can to certain business so certain business have to be done at a certain rate.
Then there will be some adjustments their part coming from the advisor apart from the firm.
Very helpful addition.
Thank you Jim Thank you.
And with this ladies and gentlemen we conclude today’s conference.
We like to thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.