Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Co.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on the Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Co.
Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay thank you Alan and good morning everyone.
And thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Jim Rogers Chairman and CEO; and Curt Espeland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations for second quarter and full year 2011.
Actual results could differ materially from our plans and expectations.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's first quarter 2011 financial results news release on our website and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-K filed for full year 2010 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for first quarter 2011.
Also we posted slides that accompany our remarks for this morning's call on our website at www.investors.eastman.com in the Presentations &amp; Events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
We really appreciate you joining us this morning.
We know you had a choice.
You could have watched talking heads talk about the royal wedding for a little bit longer but thanks for joining us here in the real world.
And I'll start on Page 3 and as I normally do I'll begin with a review of our recent outlook statements.
It's fair to say that since we last talked a few months back business conditions have improved markedly.
Our guidance for first quarter EPS was that we would approach $2 a share and I'll talk more about why we exceeded that in a few minutes.
Our guidance for full year 2011 EPS was that we would approach $8 per share and given the strong start to the year and with our first quarter results we now expect to be slightly higher than $9 for the year.
Given the strong net earnings we are on track to exceed $100 million of free cash flow for the year and Curt will speak to that in his section.
And we remain committed to being disciplined in how we put cash to work and see it as a way to differentiate ourselves from the rest of the industry.
Moving next to Slide 4 in our corporate results.
We are hitting on all cylinders right now and as a result we continue to demonstrate a new level of earnings performance.
This is the seventh consecutive quarter of year-over-year earnings growth both operating earnings and EPS and the sustained earnings growth reflects the strength of our current portfolio of businesses which as you know we have substantially improved over the last several years through both divestitures and acquisitions.
It also reflects continued volume growth and this was really throughout the company and in all regions of the globe.
We were also able to increase prices both due to higher raw material and energy costs and due to tight end markets.
There are probably two main reasons we exceeded our expectations in the first quarter.
First propylene prices increased more than we thought they would and therefore we benefited more from the propane propylene spread than we thought and to be fair propylene probably went higher than most in the market thought it would.
Second we underestimated just how tight the end-use markets are for many of our key products and that therefore even minor outages in the market have a significant impact on pricing and we expect this tightness to continue unless demand drops off.
I'd also add we were a little bit cautious in our expectations for continued economic growth.
These results in a great quarter that demonstrates what 10 000 people working together can accomplish including near flawless operational excellence in the quarter and gives us a lot of momentum heading into rest of the year.
Turning next to the segments starting with Fibers on Slide 5.
And in a pattern that will never get boring for me at least Fibers once again reliably delivered strong earnings in the first quarter.
Revenue was up 8% with volume up due to the new capacity in Korea filling up.
Pricing was up slightly but we expect you will see more of the annual price increase for acetate tow show up in the second quarter results.
Operating earnings were up both year-over-year and sequentially but the operating margin was down slightly year-over-year because a higher percentage of our tow volume came from England and South Korea and although these sites have a good cost position they aren't quite as attractive as our Kingsport facility which is fully integrated in larger scale.
Looking forward we continue to expect Fibers to have operating earnings of approximately $340 million for the year.
Up next on Slide 6 is CASPI and to say they had a very strong quarter is quite an understatement.
Sales revenue was up 25% on higher pricing and higher volume.
Pricing was up in response to higher raw material and energy costs and also due to strong demand particularly in the U.S.
and high capacity utilization in the industries where they compete.
Volume was up throughout the segment but particularly in the U.S.
in the transportation industrial and packaging end markets.
CASPI is also benefiting from a more advantageous propane to propylene spread and I'll talk more about that when I get to PCI.
As a result operating earnings increased significantly year-over-year.
Their operating margin in the first quarter was 21% compared with about 17% in the first quarter of 2010.
The higher earnings are due to the higher selling prices higher volume and the improved propane to propylene spread which combined more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.
We see the first quarter as a start of what we expect will be a very strong year where CASPI once again establishes a new level of earnings.
We expect that full year 2011 operating earnings will be over $350 million.
Moving next to PCI on Slide 7.
They also had a terrific quarter beginning with a 44% increase in sales revenue.
The increase was due to higher volume and increased pricing.
The higher volume was the result of the restart of a previously idled cracker and continued growth in plasticizers both the result of the Genovique acquisition which closed on May 1 last year and overall growth in plasticizers.
Selling prices increased reflecting higher raw material and energy costs and tight end-use market.
And as I mentioned we are benefiting from a more advantageous propane to propylene spread.
Comparing quarters propylene prices were up about 30% sequentially and over 15% year-over-year and with the cracker restart in December we are now producing a good 2/3 of our propylene needs up from about 50% before the cracker restart.
We are therefore more leveraged to a favorable spread.
And because propylene prices continue to move higher the spread is wider than we expected.
Given our strong first quarter earnings and our expectations for the remainder of the year we expect PCI to have a full year 2011 operating earnings above $300 million.
I'll wrap up the segments on Slide 8 with Specialty Plastics who continue to deliver on their commitments with another strong quarter.
Volume growth year-over-year was a solid 9% and this builds on top of a 50% volume growth in first quarter 2010 over first quarter '09.
They had all parts of their business contributing: core copolyesters Tritan Copolyster and cellulose ester.
And the capacity expansions we are working on for all 3 product lines are on track.
The CHDM monomer expansion of our core polyesters is expected to come online in two phases.
First phase is the second half of this year second in 2012.
Second Tritan resin facility is expected online in the first part of 2012 and the cellulose triacetate expansion for the LCD market is expected online also in early 2012.
Their pricing was up year-over-year reflecting very high paraxylene prices.
Paraxylene was up over 40% year-over-year and almost 30% sequentially.
Driving this increase is new polyester capacity in Asia as well as high cotton prices which are further increasing demand for polyester.
There have also been some capacity outages and turnarounds with some of that capacity starting to come back online here in the second quarter.
And as a result we see paraxylene prices moderating but remaining high due to the strong demand for the polyester in Asia.
Operating earnings were up substantially year-over-year due to the higher volume and increased capacity utilization and increased selling prices which partially offset the higher raw material and energy costs.
Looking forward because of the way costs flow through our system some of the higher-priced paraxylene costs will be flowing through the second quarter which will pressure margins and earnings.
But for the year Specialty Plastics are on track to approach $100 million of operating earnings.
Turning next to our geographic profile.
We continue to derive advantage from our global diversity.
You can see on this chart revenue increased by double digits on all regions.
This was supported by strong volume growth led by the U.S.
and Europe and this volume growth is coming not only from the rebound in the global economy but from our growth initiatives.
In the U.S.
these include Tritan Copolyster and our plasticizers business including the Genovique acquisition and the cracker restart.
In Europe the growth initiatives include our Regalite adhesives expansions and growth in our plasticizers business.
And as a reminder Genovique's main manufacturing facility is in Estonia.
And in Asia Pacific we filled out our acetate tow capacity expansion in Korea and our Tritan Copolyster is delivering strong growth.
For the quarter our sales revenue was roughly 50% in the U.S.
so therefore 50% outside and our operating earnings were about 60% outside the U.S.
That brings me to our outlook for the second quarter and for our full year 2011 on Slide 10.
Clearly we are off to a great start in 2011 with our first quarter earnings.
We are benefiting from a strengthening global economy.
We are also benefiting from the restart of the cracker in the fourth quarter the Genovique acquisition and the acetate tow capacity expansion in Korea.
Our interest expense is also lower due to the debt restructuring actions we took in the fourth quarter.
Headwinds include higher pension expense for the year and costs related to the capacity expansions we're working on more of which will be recognized in the second half of this year.
Volatility of raw material and energy costs is also a headwind particularly the potential for the spread between propane to propylene prices to narrow in the second half of the year.
And there is a risk that global inflation could lead to demand destruction.
But if that were to occur given the portfolio of businesses that we have I think we're better positioned than many to limit the impact.
Combining all of these factors our outlook for the second quarter is that earnings per share will be slightly better than the first quarter and we expect full-year 2011 earnings per share to be slightly higher than $9.
So we are maybe a year ahead of the guidance we gave you at our Investors Day and I'll remind you that this is before we put our cash to work and I'm confident we will create value for our stockholders in 2011 by putting our cash to work.
I'd next want to go to the executive spotlight and I got to tell you that's my favorite part of the call.
I have been doing this since I became CEO and I do it to remind everyone that there is a team of highly-talented executives leading this company emphasis on the word "team." It turns out that I had mentioned every exec except for one and knowing her sense of humor she would say I had left the best for last.
Theresa Lee is our Chief Legal Officer and she is simply the best at the job that I've ever seen.
Whether it's litigation intellectual property rights SEC compliance you name it her department's track record is outstanding.
Of course she has some help from lawyers who have and still could work for big firms and big cities but they chose Eastman instead.
Dave Golden Dave Woodmansee Bernie Graves Joe Davis and Etta Clark they cover all the basis from corporate to HSE to government affairs and usually play error-free ball.
In addition to the legal function Theresa recently became our Chief Administrative Officer with responsibility for human resource department which I've highlighted before.
And one last tidbit she's on the state's judicial nominating committee which means she has a hand in the selection of our judges in Tennessee.
Now just how cool is that? I can also confirm to everyone that I have seen Theresa's birth certificate.
And with that I'll turn it over to Curt Espeland.
All right.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I'm going to focus this morning on how these strong earnings performances are translating to strong cash generation and then how we're going to put the cash to work in ways that generate value for stockholders.
Starting with our financial highlights on Slide 12.
In the first quarter we used $146 million of cash in our operating activities.
There were two primary factors contributing to these results.
First during the quarter we made a $100 million pension contribution.
You might recall we had originally targeted the fourth quarter of 2010 to make this contribution but we moved it to the first quarter to coincide with the timing of the PET divestiture principally for tax reasons.
Secondly we built $270 million of working capital because of the very strong revenue growth and building working capital in the first quarter is a normal seasonal pattern.
Given our expectations for continued revenue growth and higher raw material cost I would expect a good portion of this working capital build will stay with us pretty much through the rest of the year.
This working capital is well within our normal cash conversion cycle metrics as required to support growth but I will still expect to generate over $800 million of operating cash flows in 2011.
These factors contributed to negative free cash flow in the quarter which again is a normal seasonal pattern for us.
But given the strong net earnings and operating cash flows we expect to deliver we are on track to generate approximately $200 million of free cash flow for the year.
This includes capital expenditures of roughly $450 million which I'll talk about more in a minute and that's also again after payment of our dividend.
As a reminder when I project both our operating cash flows and our free cash flows for the year I am excluding approximately $100 million of cash tax payments related to the sale of PET business that will be made during the remainder of this year.
One other item I'll note is that we did put $200 million of our cash and short-term time deposits during the quarter none of which have durations beyond 10 months.
We did this in order to increase our yield on cash and is slightly accretive for our 2011 interest expense while still maintaining the liquidity and flexibility with this investment.
Given our discussion today I thought I would update you on our funding capacity as shown on Slide 13.
With the PET transaction now completed and the process included in our financial statements you can see that we have the equivalent of $840 million of cash cash equivalents and short-term time deposits on our balance sheet.
We expect to generate approximately $475 million of free cash flow for the remainder of the year which excludes the cash tax payment related to PET transactions which I've actually listed separately here.
And we generally maintain a strategic cash reserve of approximately $200 million for seasonality and operating cash flows and other needs.
Given the strong earnings outlook we think we have debt capacity between $500 million to $1 billion.
Ultimately that debt capacity does depend on various factors such as our future earnings growth and our cash flows how we put that cash to work et cetera.
But putting it altogether we have funding capacity between $1.5 billion and $2 billion.
And quite honestly sitting here today we're probably towards the high end of that range.
We recognize in order to grow the company and to provide attractive returns to stockholders it is important to deploy much of this funding capacity over the next year or so.
So let me recap how we intend to put this funding capacity to work on Slide 14.
You've seen this before in different fashions.
There's nothing too complicated about our strategy here.
There continues to be a focus on pursuing the best opportunities amongst these four areas.
On joint ventures and acquisitions we continue to make progress on various opportunities in our pipeline and I continue to expect that we'll complete a couple of these small- to medium-sized deals sometime this year.
And on debt we'll continue to be opportunistic in the marketplace as appropriate.
I'm going to go into more detail on building and returning cash to stockholders within the next couple of slides but just to reiterate the main focus we're having is putting capital work and generating a strong return on investment for our stockholders.
And as Jim mentioned earlier we see this as an area where we can differentiate ourselves with excellent execution.
As previously mentioned our capital expenditures will be approximately $450 million for the year maybe a little bit more depending on how the year plays out.
Included in this expectation are several organic growth projects here on Slide 15.
The 17% volume growth we've had year-over-year in the first quarter is indicative of the strong volume growth we're seeing due to the strength of demand coming out of the recession and growing demand for our products.
And the capacity expansions you see on this slide which we have spoken to about previously are our response to continued growth.
These capacity expansions are across the company and our markets where strong demand is driving the need for additional capacity.
Each of these expansions is on track proceeding as planned and are still expected to have returns of 15% to 20% or even better.
Moving to Slide 16.
We feel we have a very good track record of returning cash to stockholders.
We have paid a dividend every quarter as a public company and increased the annual dividend by $0.12 a share in the fourth quarter of last year.
It is reasonable for investors to expect the dividend to increase as our earnings increase as we see the value of a steadily increasing dividend.
But I would remind you that that dividend is ultimately a board decision.
On share repurchases we've repurchased $74 million in the first quarter and are on track to at least offset dilution in 2011.
We had $341 million remaining in authorizations at the end of the quarter and we expect to continue to repurchase shares at a measured pace over the coming year or so.
In summary the strong earnings are translating to cash generation and we are on track to create value for stockholders by being disciplined in allocating capital.
So thanks for your time and your interest in Eastman Chemical Co.
and with that I'll turn it back over to Greg.
Okay.
Thanks Curt.
And this concludes our prepared remarks.
Alan we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Jim at the top of your remarks you mentioned that business conditions improved markedly and you referenced a more favorable C3 spread as well as some markets that were perhaps tighter than you would have anticipated.
Can you elaborate on the latter? Which markets have tightened up the most across your portfolio creating the most positive variances here? Yes and thanks for the compliment by the way.
I got to be careful when I start to pin down certain markets in terms of how tight they are.
So -- but let me speak broadly.
And in particular within CASPI and PCI is where you would see most of that.
And a lot of it has to do with demand but I think the main driver is the fact that supply is tight.
And I think it has to do -- if I just try and think it through I think it has a lot to do with just how bad the downturn was a couple of years ago how people put off a lot of their plans.
Just now you're seeing capacity announcements et cetera and you know what it's like in our industry.
It's going to take a while for that stuff to come on stream.
So I look within CASPI solvents the Resins market the adhesives part has been quite tight.
PCI many of their markets and the olefins oxo world are quite tight.
I can't think of any market that you would consider to be loose.
And so I think this is probably a trend that the whole industry is going to see going for quite sometime.
Okay and then a second question if I may.
Curt referenced the funding capacity of $1.5 billion to $2 billion and I thought I heard a comment that you'd be looking to put that to work over the next year or so so fairly large number there and not a terribly long time frame.
Can you comment on what you're seeing perhaps in the private market in terms of attractive or unattractive acquisition opportunities? Subject to repurchases offsetting dilution doesn't sound like a heroic ambition there.
Yes we don't want you to draw the wrong conclusion.
I mean if we see the right opportunities we're more than willing to put the cash to work.
But there wasn't an implication there that no matter what we're going to put over $1 billion to work in the next few months.
That's not what we're saying at all.
And in fact you can judge by our track record just how disciplined we are.
I do think our pipeline has improved for acquisitions.
Curt and I have talked about it and we think we're likely to get 2 or 3 deals done this year more than likely on the small-ish to medium-size so probably just a few hundred million in total.
Doesn't mean we wouldn't look at something bigger.
It's just we're trying to be realistic in order to see the values we like.
And to get the kind of deal we like we're just going to have to continue to be very disciplined.
On the rest stock buyback whatever the dividend again it's been a consistent story where we really think how you put your cash to work is one of the key things that creates value for shareholders and so we're trying to look across all our options and pick off the best ones in each bucket.
Our next question comes from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Jim what was the impact of the new cracker starting up in the quarter or maybe for the year? Can you sort of quantify that for us? Yes I'm going to let Curt try and do the numbers but one thing I want to give credit to our guys on that one.
I mean I've been reading a lot lately about people talking about adding capacity.
You think about it we made the decision probably a year ago now that this would be a good thing to do.
And so we got it online the end of last year and I think maybe we're a little ahead on that and that's one of the reasons we're benefiting now.
But it's definitely material.
The other thing I'll remind you is we actually had a cracker down first quarter last year.
So the comparison's perhaps a little more dramatic than you might think.
I want -- Curt I do not know what more you want to add.
Yes I mean again if you look at just the cracking spreads in the first quarter on a year-over-year basis probably the best way to look at it if you look at PCI PCI's year-over-year improvement is roughly $53 million dollars.
About 1/3 of that improvement probably relates to that propylene propane spread that cracking spread that we're benefiting today.
The rest is improved volumes strength of the derivatives et cetera the things Jim talked about.
At a corporate level PCI's probably -- gets about 60% of the benefits.
So if you do the math CASPI gets the rest.
So you put roughly a $30 million benefit year-over-year on that cracking spread.
Great.
That's very helpful.
And Jim you haven't talked about coal recently but is there a coal to natural gas spread that maybe the acetyl change benefit from or is that not material? I can't think of a time we have not been advantaged by being on coal P.J.
So it will move around.
I would not call it an extraordinary spread now given the gas finds et cetera in the States.
Still we still think we're quite advantaged.
A little stuff that we don't often get to talk about one of the projects we've had over the past year and half is in our gasification plan to diversify what kinds of coal we can use and where the coal comes from which can keep us from having to pay near-met coal prices for that type coal to -- we can use stuff that looks a lot more like steam coal.
And we made great progress on that.
And that's one of the things we'll benefit from long-term that that coal cost can look more like steam coal than near-met coal.
And so I think that's an advantage that's going to stick to our roots.
Our next question comes from Frank Mitsch with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
PCI obviously a very strong year.
You raised your guidance for the year from $260 million plus to $300 million plus and Curt just explained that maybe $18 million or so was coming in the first quarter this benefit of the propane to propylene spread that you guys didn't factor in initially.
That looks like it's obviously sustainable it's not going to expand here in the second quarter.
So that pretty much accounts for all of that movement there in terms of your guidance.
Does that suggest that there's room for more upside on the PCI business? What it suggests is we think that that propane propylene spread may come in a little in the second half of the year and that would be our expectation just looking at the historic charts and seeing how it's moving around.
If it stays where it is today in April then I would guess we would do better than what we said.
All right.
So it's nothing more than looking at historics in the second half of the year but in terms of plant additions et cetera is there anything there that concerns you about the second half on that spread? No not so much that near-term.
I mean long term you know there'll be more adds.
What we see going forward though the adds on propylene will probably be on purpose adds probably have a little different cost position.
It gives you pause to make a decision when you got to do something on purpose versus it's just a byproduct.
But it's just a matter of forecasting and I'm surprised Frank you didn't bust our chops on forecasting again.
I save that for off-line.
I was ready for you so I'll use my line anyway.
I was going to say that we're going to stick to what we're good at and others can beat us on the forecasting we'll just stick to the actual results.
You've indicated in the past that you had a concern about your capacity limitations possibly.
Where do you stand on that? How is operating -- can you generally speak to the operating rates in the first quarter and your expectations for second half et cetera? Yes I mean operating rates are high obviously.
By the way they're not as high as they've ever been.
I mean we still got more room on our existing assets so.
But you'd be at that bottom 90-kind-of-percent range this past quarter and we got room to operate a little higher than that.
The key thing for us when I look out a little bit and I kind of think '12 over '11 -- because we started working on that sometime ago one of the main drivers for improvement there is going to be the capacity adds that we talked about in our comments those coming online and kicking in for 2012.
But we got more juice in our existing plants.
A couple of places where we're awfully tight the resins and core adhesives and a couple of other places.
But we got a little more juice in our core assets.
All right.
Terrific.
Then lastly the region with the slowest year-over-year growth was Asia and obviously it had a terrific first quarter a year ago.
So a very difficult comp but is there anything that you're seeing geographically with respect to Asia that gives you some concern in terms of growth projections there? No not at all.
I mean I asked the same question Frank when I -- when it all rolled up.
What's going on? And it's really more a factor of just how well the other regions did and in particular with PCI you start up a cracker so North America is going to have an outstanding quarter.
You have an acquisition in Genovique that drives Europe and North America.
So it's more like we just got the typical expected kind of growth in Asia and the other regions had some special stuff going on.
Our next question comes from Jeff Zekauskas with JP Morgan.
When I look at your income statement I see that your tax rate is 32% or 33%.
And if you compare your rate to Dow's rate I think Dow is at 21%.
And I think more than half of your revenues now come from the offshore areas.
So is there anything you can do about it? I mean do you have some plans in place to make your taxation rate more efficient.
Yes Jeff this is Curt.
Where you look at the difference maybe from just purely the revenues also where your asset base is located.
Yes that's right.
You're U.S.
Yes so predominantly our assets 80% 85% of our assets are still in the U.S.
maybe a different profile for the other company you mentioned.
And so a lot of that does affect your tax rate.
How we start impacting that longer-term is more of how we deploy our new capital.
That gives us opportunity to look at tax jurisdictions that are maybe a little lower than us.
Though currently -- so a lot of it's how we put our capital to work.
And then we'll watch the tax regulation.
I mean if there's some changes in the U.S.
tax rate we'll probably position to benefit from that.
And Jeff let me tag on that and forgive me for using your airtime to do this but the tax rate was one of the things I want to mention when I look longer-term.
I mean I see that as upside.
I can't imagine getting much more worse than 33%.
And as we go to drive our strategy that's one of the things I want us to consider more is how do we bring that down.
Because it's not lost on me that some of the other guys in the industry have noticeably lower taxes.
And I think about what's going on in Congress right now again that's upside.
Now that I'm sitting here today I'd rather have a tax rate above the kind of range they're talking about than below if I think something could really happen there.
So I don't know what the odds are but there's probably upside.
And if I -- and that was just going to be one of the macro trends I wanted to mention because as I look at longer-term stuff we -- I think the propane propylene spread is going to be at elevated levels for quite some time when we look at how fast people can bring capacity on so that's a positive.
It may not stay as high as it is today but it's going to be up there.
I think oil being up generally advantages Eastman overall unless it kills end market demand for everybody.
But overall buying coal and propane ethane is a positive compared to the guys who are starting with a different base.
We'll take advantage of emerging markets and sustainability maybe equal to or a little better than most.
But a declining dollar that trend that probably advantages Eastman.
Higher inflation we've been eating inflation from the guys up-pipe of us.
And so the more inflation that comes downpipe -- maybe not long-term good for the country and the world but it may help on the pricing getting passed along higher interest rates had also helped on the pension pressure that everyone's feeling across industry.
I think the regulatory threats that I used to worry much more about have cooled down some with a split Congress.
So I look at some longer-term trends -- I'm fine being a major shareholder at least personally Eastman being a major shareholder in my portfolio.
What's the timing of you bringing up your other 300 million-pound cracker that's been idled for a while? Well that's something -- it's not a no-brainer that we bring it up.
Let me say it that way.
I mean the one we did bring up was a pretty quick decision.
I think we've already been paid back for the money we spent to bring it up.
So that was probably an easier decision than we thought it was.
This next one is not so easy.
It wasn't just we idled it.
We actually shut it down.
You kind of run until you would've done a major turnaround then you don't do it then you rob it for parts.
And so what goes into the math on that one Jeff is how long would it take you to get it back up how much money would you spend and how long do you think the spreads are there? And what else can you do? And there's a number of alternatives versus just bringing it back up and continuing to crack like you do in the other 3.
So we're going through all of that now.
Would I like to have already made a decision on how we can approach that? Yes but the guys are being cautious and they're trying to understand what all the options are versus just crank it back up the way it used to be cranked up.
Okay.
And then lastly you talked about your interest in making acquisitions.
I mean if you look at Eastman Eastman is tremendously advantaged because of its ethane and propane positions.
When you buy new businesses is your thrust to buy businesses that have intrinsic raw material advantages or to buy businesses that are more differentiated? And when you look at your acquisition selection are they on one side or are they on the other? I know you'd probably want to buy both but given the market that you've got today which one can you actually buy? Yes it's funny.
It's -- I mean we do look for both.
We look for some kind of sustainable competitive advantage as you might imagine.
I think about Genovique and I hadn't really thought about it as a raw material play but not bad with benzoic acid and plasticizer marketplace in general if you think about that spread you just talked about and then go into 2-EH and then go into our plasticizers.
There is an advantage.
So if I could build off of that I would.
Most of the opportunities so far seem to be in the PCI area some popping up in CASPI.
We've already done the kind of inorganic stuff in Fibers with the announcement of Korea and China.
It may also depend some size Jeff now that I think about it.
So to get that raw material advantage maybe bigger things.
Some of the smaller things we're looking at usually already fit in to one of our streams and you just take advantage of what you've got.
Our next question comes from Robert Koort with Goldman Sachs.
This is Manav in for Robert today.
Just on the raw material costs escalation what could -- how much higher could your raw material costs be in 2011 versus 2010 on current run rate of raw material prices? Well I'm going to have Curt try and ballpark that for you and I'll just take this moment to say that I'm pleased with how the business guys in our supply chain et cetera have been able to handle some virtually dramatic moves in raw materials and still deliver the results they got.
So just to give you an idea paraxylene I gave you kind of quarter-over-quarter moves but April to April year-over-year looks like 60% to 70% move in paraxylene and yet Specialty Plastics delivered the results they did.
Curt I don't know how much you what to quantify raws.
Well I can just tell you on a year-over-year basis raws were up $90 million on a sequential basis $75 million.
Just looking in the second quarter that sequential improvement -- or sequential raws are probably only half of what we saw first quarter over fourth.
Second half of the year you got the same forward curves we have.
So that's kind of where our raw material view is right now.
Our next question comes from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Jim just on Specialty Plastics you mentioned the pressure from paraxylene.
Will that business -- it will be down sequentially obviously.
Will that business be down year-over-year as well from an earnings standpoint? Well what we're saying is approaching $100 million.
And again some of the stuff that's harder for you to see we mention the paraxylene but we offset some more capacity coming on in that business as we've talked about.
And what we've seen is your income statement takes a hit of a few million dollars as you're bringing that stuff up just the expenses of having to shut something down to tie it in et cetera as well as going from capitalized interest to whatever.
I mean Curt knows all this stuff on how it works.
But I'm planning on them eating a little bit of expense for starting up capacity in the second half that they won't have had in the first half.
So the main thing I know of when I look into the second quarter is just the flow-through of paraxylene that the way that cost flows through our system we'll feel more of that in the second quarter than we did in the first.
And David what I may add is for the things Jim mentioned is $100 million -- to approach $100 million is actually an improvement over last year.
And again that's a function of maybe eating some paraxylene costs but on top of it getting that volume and benefit of Tritan absorbing some startup costs at end of this year.
But when they bring that new capacity that's what gives us the confidence about how they can grow beyond that $100 million in 2012.
And Curt just to be clear on Q2 that you're saying will be up versus year ago? Q2 I'd have to back -- go back and look the number.
I think they're going to be down sequentially and -- but probably a little better than last year if I recall the numbers.
And Jim just on -- the fiber pricing you said should be up -- reflect more of the annual increases in Q2 and Q3 than Q2.
Will that have an impact as well on profitability and margins? Yes I mean the guidance we're giving is Fibers will be a little better second quarter than first but they're at a pretty nice level right now so I don't expect a lot of volatility around those numbers.
I mean their issue is they're going to have more volume in the second quarter will be one of the drivers I believe.
And the -- and first on the pricing we just wanted to point out that I know all you guys like to go through the volume percentages pricing percentages et cetera.
You're just missing a little bit of the price increase in the first quarter.
A lot of that doesn't kick in until say February.
So January a lot of times you're on the old pricing.
That's all.
And how much pricing did you get this year? Was it typical 7%-ish? We don't say our percentages.
Others may want to go that route but we negotiate with each customer individually.
And our objective is to try and cover our increased costs and we all know that there's -- wood pulp in particular was a significant increase.
But we think Fibers will deliver the results we say and that's a combination of volume price service et cetera.
And last just on volume growth Q2 and Q3.
In the past you said you would be constrained will be constrained.
But won't they have a little more volume now than you did.
Have you seen some de-bottlenecking activities give you a little more capacity throughout the past late last year? Yes always.
It's amazing.
These assets have been around a long time and yet continually some of that capital we spend goes to a minor de-bottleneck here or there.
One of the mainstreams you're always looking to de-bottleneck is your acetyl stream and there's no major thing I can point to other than the projects we've already pointed out.
But much of it just goes to just excellent operation in terms of running the plants better than we have historically even.
And frankly it sounds immodest but we've been pretty good at running chemical plants.
We're doing an excellent job right now.
Our next question comes from Ed Rodriguez with Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Jim a quick question on pricing.
I mean they've been extremely strong over the past few quarters and of course a good chunk of it is cost push.
But can you talk about how the portfolio is strategically positioned to hold on to some of those prices or do you have to give them up as quickly as they came if costs come down? Well as you can imagine it depends market by market right? So -- and also kind of even within streams.
So in the past in some of the Investor Days maybe a couple of Investor's Day I got a -- I talked about products that cross more than one stream or maybe we're the only ones in the world who make it.
And there you have to be very judicious with price increases.
You try not to tie it too much to raw materials.
And so maybe we didn't -- some of the stuff in CASPI or a few things in Specialty Plastics you don't run them up as fast as the raws but they also don't have to come off.
The stuff that's -- when raws come off.
Stuff that's closer to commodity does move around much closer tied to the raws.
And in fact much of PCI you think about price adjusting within 30 days of raws.
The key thing we focus on though is the spread.
And that's why a lot of times I don't even like to talk about percentage margins because I'm focusing on absolute dollar spreads.
And the final thing I'll say on this is I don't want to imply that I think the industry has changed its psyche.
I think for sure we'll still have some period in the future of overbuild and we'll have a supply-driven cycle eventually.
But the downturn was so dramatic that as I talked to guys in the industry I can just see that they're being much more cautious this time.
They're not just not throwing the cash at steel and concrete and throwing it in the ground.
And so at best I'd say it's probably going to take a little longer to get to that point speaking broadly for the industry.
Our next question comes from Andrew Cash with UBS.
Back in the investment day you highlighted a number of growth opportunities expanding existing products and margins markets and so forth.
So when you look at 17% year-over-year growth in the first quarter I was just hoping that you might be able to break that down a little bit in terms of how much was from new products how much was from perhaps new customers or regions and perhaps is there a way to get an idea how much was pre-price increase buying? Yes that's something you always want to watch for.
And in fact the last point about people trying to get in ahead of a price increase we got systems that handle that pretty well but you can never shut the door completely.
Frankly that was part of it when we saw January results.
In Investors Day all we had was January results.
We knew revenue but we didn't know earnings from February.
And there's a little bit of a concern that maybe we had had some of the business pulled forward into January and so you shouldn't just take that times 12 or whatever.
And then as the quarter unfolded February and March were also extremely strong.
I don't know Curt.
Do you want to...
No I mean the only thing to add besides that is I also look at how much was just a benefit of the crackers operating first quarter this year versus first quarter last year and that was just a couple of percentage points.
Yes I would say is I don't think you -- in fact I know we haven't gotten a lot of volume -- hardly any volume from some of the great new stuff we've talked about like acetylated wood and surface.
Surface is just now getting out in the stores.
That was that coating that goes on trim from Specialty Plastics.
I think that's going be really strong.
Early indications are that's good.
But you haven't seen it.
And in fact if anything you've probably just seen a cost in the numbers so far.
So not as much from new products yet.
I'm really thinking that will be a driver for -- probably what's going to make '14 better than '13 '15 better than '14 is going to be things like microfibers et cetera.
Okay.
So if you strip out the cracker benefit the underlying growth was 15%? Yes roughly yes.
Okay.
Just -- you brought up the acetylated pine project.
Where does that stand now? Have you -- how much money have you spent? I think you said at Investors Day you're looking towards maybe $500 million on that project? No.
Of revenue.
Yes of revenue.
Of revenue.
Okay.
So where do you stand? No I could just imagine if one of my board members was listening [indiscernible] "Why didn't you tell me we were going to spend that much on A-wood?" But no on the acetylated wood it's on track.
We're building the small commercial plan here to test the market spring of next year.
So not a huge amount of money spent today but you've seen a lot of the expense on the other line when we put our numbers out there.
And this is one where you probably get $2-plus of revenue for every dollar of capital so long term this is a nice business model.
But again we've got to prove it out.
We got to see people willing to pay the price point we need to have the margins we want.
Okay so if it's not a $500 million project what's the kind of ball park range that you might be spending there over the next couple of years? [indiscernible].
[Audio Gap] Well Andy if you look at just the small commercial operation we're working on this year that's including the $450 million outlook.
That's probably a modest percentage of that total.
Jim talked about the 2:1 revenue so if you got a $500 million revenue that gives you roughly $250 million type of number.
And as I mentioned in Investor Day that really is going to depend on how the spring launch goes in '12.
But that will start in '13 and '14 is where you see that capital.
Our final question comes from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yes just a follow-up on Fibers.
Jim one of your primary competitors there indicated they may need to run a facility in the United Kingdom a bit longer.
I think the intimation was that some of the crises in Japan have had an impact on that market.
Have you seen that at all and maybe you could comment on the incremental capacity you've added in Korea and how much of that is loaded at this point? Yes Korea's full so that's a good thing.
I tried to say that in my comments.
The market needs the volume right now I guess is the best way to say it.
The customers need the volume so we understand completely what kind of thinking went through the competitor you are talking about what went through their minds.
Other than that I would just say Japan in general not a major impact as far as we can see it.
That's not just Fibers that's across all our business.
So you want to watch for things like the displays market for Specialty Plastics but right now that looks like it's okay.
Again on Fibers we're trying to make sure we service our customers with what they need across-the-board.
The concern out of Japan would be in my mind would be if eventually the supply chain just starts to hit some choke points where some of the end markets can't produce the volume they want that we sell into.
But direct impact on us is minimal.
Okay.
And then a couple of housekeeping questions if I may on CASPI.
Is your 10% expansion of Eastotac complete at this point? And what is the timeline for Regalite? Is that on track for this summer? Yes all our expansions are on track.
I'm trying to remember what the timing was on Eastotac? Do you remember it? I don't remember.
I'll go back and check.
It's okay.
Okay.
And then on acetyls Jim what is your operating rate at this time? High.
I mean I gave you a ballpark for the whole company at 90%.
I'm rounding a little bit but say 90% and the acetyls would be in that ballpark and have a little more juice as well.
Overall it's -- I want people to understand that we were judicious as we went to add capacity but we really do need to spend this money and add this capacity and we're doing it in a number of places.
But I have pretty much still got a little capacity left to where I think we need it.
Jim if I might add.
Kevin one thing that we will have in the fourth quarter this year we will have a shutdown of that -- at our island.
That will affect some of our operating rates in the fourth quarter.
That's a normal periodic turnaround.
That's another chance you take to do when you do de-bottlenecks or cost-saving projects that you've been waiting on until you do a shutdown.
That does conclude the question-and-answer session today.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to your presenters for additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks again for joining us this morning everyone.
A web replay as well as a replay in a downloadable MP3 format and the accompanying slides for this conference call are going to be available on our website from 11 a.m.
this morning.
Thanks again and have a great day.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thank you Tricia and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
On the call with me today are Jim Rogers Chairman and CEO; and Curt Espeland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin I'll cover 3 items.
First during this call you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations for third quarter and full year 2011.
Actual results could differ materially from our plans and expectations.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's second quarter 2011 financial results news release on our website and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-Q filed for first quarter 2011 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for second quarter 2011.
Second except when otherwise indicated all financial measures referenced in the call and in the slides accompanying the call will be non-GAAP financial measures including earnings per share and operating earnings that exclude restructuring related charges.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and other associated disclosures including a description of the restructuring-related items are available in our second quarter 2011 financial results news release and the tables accompanying the news release.
Lastly we posted the slides that accompany our remarks for this morning's call on our website at www.investors.eastman.com and you'll find those in the Presentations &amp; Events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
If I sound a little funny I just have a little cold.
I'll tell you what I want to start out first by saying that even though we're only 5.5 hours from Washington D.C.
we want to assure all our friends and family that we're still healthy.
We're fine.
We're not in any personal danger.
The plume of radioactive ridiculousness is not blowing our way.
The tsunami of surrealism has not seemed to have breached the levy called the Beltway at this time.
And we only have one plan here.
I've yet to -- I've never failed in getting the votes I need to implement that plan of growth.
Now I can't vouch for the levy on the New York side of D.C.
because as we announced record earnings not only for the company as a whole and for each of the businesses as we raised our guidance for the year as we put a foundation in place for double-digit earnings growth year-over-year.
I see we're indicated lower while United States government which is indicating bankruptcy and failure to meet its obligations people are piling into their short-term notes.
So I can't vouch for the levy in the north side.
And since all that was unscripted and my lawyers are probably screaming in their feet.
I'll stop there and pick it up on Page 3.
Beginning with a review of our performance against some of our recent outlook statements.
Our second quarter guidance was that our EPS would be slightly above first quarter EPS of $2.52 and we delivered on that.
Guidance for full year 2011 was that we would report EPS slightly above $9.
We're off to a great start with 2 consecutive record EPS quarters.
In the second half we expect to continue to deliver year-over-year earnings growth.
And as a result we are raising our outlook by $0.25.
As expected our very strong earnings performance is translating into cash flow.
We're on track to generate approximately $200 million of free cash flow this year.
And I hope you'll agree we've been disciplined on how we allocate our cash.
We put cash to work this quarter in a number of areas.
And we'll talk about that throughout our remarks this morning.
Bottom line is that we've had a fantastic first half of the year.
We're on track for a great full year 2011.
And I remain confident that we are well positioned to deliver earnings growth in 2012 and beyond.
Moving next to Slide 4 and our corporate results for the second quarter.
Second quarter EPS was a record.
And this is the second consecutive quarter that we've set an EPS record.
In fact we've set a quarterly EPS record for 3 of the last 4 quarters.
In addition this is the eighth quarter in a row of year-over-year earnings growth and we expect to continue this performance in the second half of this year.
Sales revenue in the quarter was also a record driven by higher selling prices and strong volume growth.
Prices increased in response to higher raw material and energy costs and also because of tight industry supply.
Volume increased throughout the company and in most regions.
This level of earnings reflects the contributions of 10 000 employees around the world the improvements we've made in our portfolio of businesses and products and it reflects the benefits of our geographic and end-market diversity.
Many of you have heard me say we know who we are and we like who we are.
With these results you see why I am comfortable saying that.
Moving next to the segment starting with CASPI on Slide 5.
CASPI had another outstanding quarter with record revenue and operating earnings.
Year-over-year revenue increased due to the higher prices and higher volume.
The prices were due to higher raw material and energy costs and also attributed to strong demand and a high capacity-utilization rate in the industry.
Volume increased primarily in the U.S.
in the packaging transportation and durable goods markets.
Sequentially revenue was up 5% primarily due to higher selling prices in response to higher raw material and energy costs.
Volume was flat as seasonally higher volume was offset by some softening in the Asia-Pacific region which began in June and has continued into July.
But I want to stress that we are seeing signs that these areas are now stabilizing.
Operating earnings increased to a record $99 million and the operating margin was a solid 20%.
Earnings increased over a strong second quarter 2010 due to the higher selling prices and higher sales volume.
CASPI also benefits primarily in our solvents product lines from cracking propane to produce propylene at low cost.
Sequentially operating earnings increased slightly primarily due to higher prices.
So looking at the full year we continue to expect that CASPI will have operating earnings above $350 million which indicates we expect a strong second half of the year higher than the second half of 2010.
One other item of note in the quarter for CASPI.
Earlier this month we acquired Dynaloy a small electronic chemicals business that manufactures formulated solvents with a particular focus on semiconductors.
Dynaloy brings a strong market connect and material science capability that are complementary to our own.
And they will be a great enabler to growing our CASPI electronics and materials product lines.
Fibers is next on Slide 6.
And they once again delivered a great quarter with record earnings and revenue.
Revenue was up 21% due primarily to higher acetate tow sales volume as the Korea facility is now running at capacity.
Pricing was up 5% as the full impact of the annual price increase for acetate tow is reflected in the quarter.
For the year Fibers remains on track for operating earnings of approximately $340 million which would be the eighth consecutive year of operating earnings growth.
Next up is PCI on Slide 7.
And you probably recognize the theme at this point.
PCI had record operating earnings in line with our first quarter.
Year-over-year sales revenue increased due to higher selling prices and higher sales volume.
Selling prices increased in response to higher raw material and energy costs and also because of tight industry supply.
Volume was up due to growth in plasticizers customer buying patterns for acetyl chemicals and the restart of a previously idled cracker.
Sequentially sales revenue was up 5% due to higher selling prices in response to higher raw material and energy costs.
Operating earnings increased year-over-year due to higher prices and volume plus the benefit of cracking propane to produce propylene at low cost.
Sequentially operating earnings were flat as it benefit North America from the improved olefins cracking spread and customer buying patterns for acetyl chemicals was offset by softening in Asia-Pac for our oxo chemicals and other olefin derivatives.
In Asia we saw the softening begin in June and into July.
And as with CASPI we've recently seen signs that it is stabilizing.
For the year even with additional costs related to planned and unplanned shutdowns that I'll talk more about in a minute we continue to expect PCI to have operating earnings above $300 million.
Specialty Plastics is on Slide 8 and they are on pace for a new level of earnings in 2011.
Second quarter sales revenue and operating earnings were both records.
Revenue increased due to higher selling prices which more than offset higher raw material and energy costs.
Operating earnings increased primarily in Asia-Pacific and in Europe due to the higher selling prices.
Earnings were higher than we expected in the quarter primarily because of results of our growth initiatives and Asia-Pacific were above expectations and because paraxylene costs didn't go up as much in the quarter as we expected.
Looking at the full year Specialty Plastics assets  are currently running at high utilization rate.
And as you know we have a number of capacity additions coming online in 2012 that we will grow into.
In 2011 we are focusing on valuing up our mix of products and I've talked about this before not just for Specialty Plastics but also for PCI and for CASPI.
Valuing up the mix helps Specialty Plastics in the first half of the year and we expect it to continue in the second half as well.
With the outperformance in the first half of the year and an expected strong second half of the year we are increasing our outlook for Specialty Plastics to approaching $120 million of earnings compared with our previous guidance of approaching $100 million.
That brings me to our regional performance on Slide 9.
And you can see from the chart how our geographic diversity is a source of strength for us.
Our highest revenue growth in the quarter was in Europe due primarily to both higher volume and price.
The higher volume was particularly for plasticizers and PCI.
North America had the next highest revenue growth due to higher prices and volume.
And PCI had the highest volume growth in North America in part due to the cracker restart.
Asia-Pacific revenue increased 23% primarily due to higher prices higher volumes and a favorable mix shift in fibers basically more tow.
For the last several quarters we've said that although sales revenue was split about 50% in North America and 50% outside of North America operating earnings were split closer to 40% in North America and 60%  outside.
In this quarter it was closer to a 50-50 earnings split due to the benefit of the increased cracker spread in North America.
On Slide 10 is our outlook for third quarter and full year 2011.
In the first half of the year we grew earnings year-over-year by over 50%.
We expect continued year-over-year earnings growth in both third and fourth quarters and for the second half as a whole.
We also expect a normal seasonal decline in our sales volume in the second half and for raw material and energy costs to remain volatile.
In addition we will have costs related to planned and unplanned shutdowns in the second half of the year that we expect to be approximately $25 million higher than they were in the first half.
These are costs for an issue we are currently having with one of our Texas olefin cracking units and that problem then impacts the shutdown we have planned for the largest of our 3 crackers.
We also are bringing down our Kingsport coal gasification facility in the second half of the year for a planned shutdown.
And we have shutdowns in Specialty Plastics in order to bring their new capacity expansions online -- Even with these higher costs we expect third quarter EPS to be slightly higher than last year's third quarter EPS of $2.22.
And I want to remind you that third quarter last year included $0.19 per share related to the partial settlement of an insurance claim related to a power outage at our Longview Texas facility.
For the full year we had previously said we expect that EPS to be slightly higher than $9 and we're increasing that to slightly higher than $9.25 for the year.
And now for the minute I call the CEO spotlight and I typically highlight an Eastman executive just to remind people that we have a deep bench here at Eastman.
This time though I thought I'd do something different and provide some info on Eastman's operators some of the most experienced dedicated professional chemical workers in the world.
So just some fun facts here.
Our average operator is 46 years old has education beyond high school level has nearly 20 years experience with the longest tenure having over 47 years at Eastman.
Their job is highly respected in their community and highly sought after.
As an example in an opening in Kingsport that we posted on May 2 of this year received 908 applications in 24 hours.
And I can remind you Kingsport is not a huge town.
Roughly 15% of our operations are female and our folks tend to retire in the same community as they worked.
Because of this it's not unusual to have more than one employee from the same family including across generations.
In fact I personally know 2 people Senior Team Manager Lori Garrett; and Government Relations Director Charley Poe who are fourth generation employees.
And after this segment I'm sure I'll hear about others.
So the Eastman operator's an important reason for our success and I just wanted to give them some air time.
And with that I'll turn it over to Curt.
Curt? Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
And I know it's been a long earnings season for many of you.
So let me just focus on a few slides this morning.
I'll start on Slide 12.
And you'll see here the financial highlights for the quarter.
You can see that the record earnings we are delivering are translating into strong cash flows.
Cash from operations of $207 million included a $55 million estimated cash tax payment for the gain on the sale of PET business which we're completed in the first quarter.
For the year we expect total tax payments for the gain on the PET business sale will total approximately $110 million.
Our tax rate at the second quarter of 2011 did benefit roughly $0.07 per share from the recognition of additional state tax credits we expect due to the increased level of capital spend at our Kingsport site.
For the remainder of the year we expect our effective tax rate will be approximately 33%.
Working capital was up slightly for the quarter consistent with our expectations and we continue to expect it will be a source of cash in the second half of the year.
Our free cash flow for the quarter which excludes the cash tax payment related to the sale of the PET business was $120 million.
I continue to expect our free cash flow for the year will be approximately $200 million meaning that we expect to generate over $350 million of free cash flow in the second half of the year.
At the end of the quarter we had $834 million in cash and short-term time deposits and our net debt-to-capital ratio at the end of the quarter was at a conservative 29% level particularly relative to our credit rating.
Next on Slide 13 is how we're putting our cash to work.
We continue to take a balanced disciplined approach that is creating value for stockholders.
In build we spent $109 million in capital expenditures in the quarter.
We continue to expect capital expenditures for the year to be over $450 million.
We are on track with the 5 major capacity additions that I spoke about the last call.
These are in turn a component of our earnings growth expectations in 2012 and 2013.
Over in joint ventures and acquisitions we've been busy.
I'll speak more about the Sterling acquisition in a minute.
And as Jim mentioned earlier we closed on Dynaloy earlier this month.
And while they are small they will be a great addition for us as we continue to grow our electronic materials business in CASPI.
We have a number of other projects in our pipeline and I expect there'll be more activity in the second half of the year.
Next in equity our share repurchases totaled $103 million in the quarter.
And we're at $177 million in the first half of the year.
We have $239 million remaining on our existing board authorization.
And we are well on our way to more than offset dilution for the year.
I'll also add that we continue to pay a healthy dividend.
And that while a quarterly dividend is a board decision it is reasonable for investors to expect the dividends increase as our earnings increase.
Lastly on debt we are in good shape.
You may recall we restructured some of our debt in the fourth quarter of 2010 at very attractive interest rates.
We have $150 million of public debt coming due in 2012 and nothing materially to deal with until 2015.
An example of what we're doing in the joint ventures and acquisitions is the Sterling acquisition summarized here on Slide 14 that we announced about a month ago.
You'll recall that in May 2010 we completed the acquisition of Genovique Specialties a leading producer of non-phthalate plasticizers.
With that acquisition and our own Eastman 168 non-phthalate plasticizer we became the largest manufacturer of non-phthalate plasticizers in the world.
Our acquisition of Sterling will further support our strategy.
Sterling has plasticizers assets that will convert to Eastman 168 non-phthalate plasticizers.
We expect the facility will be fully converted in second -- in 2012 and ready to meet demand growth in 2013.
Sterling also has an acetic acid business which has a long-term contract with relatively stable revenue and earnings.
The purchase price is approximately $100 million in cash and we expect the transaction will close in the third quarter.
Excluding costs and charges related to the acquisition we expect the transaction will be slightly accretive to 2011 earnings per share.
In 2012 we expect it to be accretive above our cost of capital.
And what I mean by that is that we expect earnings by the acquired businesses to be above the cost if we had gone to the capital markets to fund the transaction rather than using our cash which in the current environment is earning very low interest rate.
We expect the acquisition to be accretive well above the cost of capital as the plasticizers assets start materially contributing in 2013 as expected.
Given the demand growth in non-phthalate plasticizers our leading position in the non-phthalate plasticizer market and a steady revenue earnings streams from the ascetic acid business this acquisition makes a lot of sense for Eastman as we are logical highest and best owner of the business.
As I close let me also reiterate a comment Jim made earlier.
With the strength of our  portfolio of businesses the earnings of potential various growth initiatives underway and the expected benefits of disciplined capital allocation I am also confident we are well positioned to deliver earnings growth in 2012 and beyond.
With that I'll turn it back over to Greg.
Okay.
Thanks Curt.
And this concludes our prepared remarks.
Tricia we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America.
Jim over time the profitability in your PCI segment has tracked fairly well with the spread between the cost of propane and propylene linked selling prices there.
That spread improved in the second quarter and yet your profit trended flat sequentially.
I was just wondering if you could elaborate on that.
Was it attributable to the softness that you mentioned in Asia in the back of the quarter? Or were there other factors at work there? And what would your outlook be entering 3Q? PCI did have another great quarter even though it didn't get all the bump you would have expected from the spread.
And give me a chance to make one comment.
I think probably those outside the company underestimate just how much work we've done in developing our downstream products and our derivatives.
And these are more stable they don't bounce around the same.
I tried to talk about how you don't capture the spread every day when you're dealing with derivatives.
So it's not like we're just pushing propylene out the door.
So that's part of it.
I expect a more stable business where you give up some of the upside and the spread widens but you don't move down 100% when the spread tightens either.
Asia was a part of it.
We actually had our Singapore site down for a few days planned but still down in Asia.
We talked about the softening in the oxos and butanol 2-EH NPG.
That was more in June.
I said it's stabilizing here in July.
Frankly you never know if it was just inventories that the customers are moving around or if there was really in demand.
We really just don't have that kind visibility.
I can just tell you it's not continuing to decline.
And we did have an unplanned outage with one of our crackers in Texas.
And that nipped us a little bit in the second quarter as well and that happened in June.
Just for a little bit update on that we're obviously checking that several times a day.
We have brought it back up.
It's running about 85%.
This was a vibration issue by the way.
So it's one of those things where it takes a little more time you want to do it safely.
But it's back up to 85% which is a good thing because at that level we can go ahead and do the turnaround we wanted to on our cracker 4.
And we'll be doing that one shortly here in a week or 2.
And when that -- when cracker 4 comes back up at a turnaround it'll have more capacity.
And it's been running at probably about 85% as well.
So a little hiccup there on the crackers that nipped us a little bit in the second quarter.
We're going to feel that again in the third quarter like we talked about and a little will dribble into the fourth quarter even potentially.
But overall I mean I can't -- I don't have a lot to complain about.
That business has just been going great guns.
And just a final word on that when you try and tie it to the spread PCI's performance some of that's just plain coincidence.
I mean there's a lot to PCI when you talk about their plasticizer business good margins good growth.
You think about their acetyl business et cetera.
So as I look at PCI even though it's the most cyclical part of Eastman we're trying to continually take that out and move more product downstream.
So I'm sorry it's a long answer to your question but I want to get all that color and about the cracker.
That's helpful Jim.
I appreciate it.
And the cracker you're referring to is the HCC-3 cracker that started up earlier this week? Yes.
Is that correct? Okay.
Great.
And then just to follow up on plasticizers you mentioned you'll be converting some of the Sterling capacity.
At what point in 2012 can you get that up and running? And maybe you could size it -- size the increment for us relative to your existing base? So let me -- let Curt help me out here so I can save my voice.
Go ahead Curt.
Well if you look at the Sterling acquisition there's a few components of the startup of the plasticizer that we still have to work out.
And we've got to close the transaction first before we can work out those final details.
So right now I'd just say it is going to be sometime in 2012.
From the sizing of that asset I mean 2 components.
One it does have an ascetic acid business.
I'd call that roughly $100 million of revenue.
And I think when the PGS that comes up in the sum and it could add over a couple of hundred million dollars in revenue.
So -- but let me add this too.
Because we haven't closed on the deal yet so we can talk more when we actually own it but I'm glad we found this one.
I mean Eastman in my mind is clearly highest and best owner of this business.
We can pay very good price to their current shareholders.
And yet because we have kind of a particular way of using the assets that they were not running I think we can create quite a bit of value for the Eastman shareholders as well.
We'll take our next question from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Jim you talked about the slowdown in China can you tell us what particular end markets or what products slowed down for you? Yes.
Let me hop in there.
So  I mentioned the oxos just a minute ago.
They were all -- so I'd say the solvents in CASPI were probably the other area.
By the way don't let me portray this like Asia had a bad month in June.
It actually overall had a very good month.
A bright spot for example would be Specialty Plastics which have taken this opportunity to really upgrade their mix in Asia.
So I mean they got volume pretty much around the globe but in Asia they were also able to get price and really value up from the products they were selling.
And that's just what you would expect to do in a tight market.
But the places where things were slowing down was really solvents and then on the oxo side.
And like I say we've see that stabilize in July which may lead you to think maybe it was just forgive me inventory maneuvering.
But I can't say that for sure because it could have had some final demand influencing that as well.
Okay.
And then a couple of years ago you tried to build a coal gasification in the U.S.
I was wondering if you can take expertise to China given that some of your competitors are already there or getting there in coal gasification? Yes.
I think that would be -- as you look down the road for Eastman I think that would be a higher probability scenario certainly than trying to come back to the States.
I mean China does have huge coal supplies.
More than likely there's a kind of coal that would work well or the way we do gasification.
You have to always solve the water issues.
Requires a lot of water and that's something that's a bit of a constraint.
But yes I would expect that that is the kind of gasification project we should do would be a place more like China.
But you know us we're not just going to make some big announcement and jump into something.
We're going to think everything through because there's advantage raw materials in other parts of the world as well? And just lastly I think you answered this partially about the seasonality.
Both CASPI and PCI earnings were flat.
Shouldn't you see some improvement in 2Q over 1Q? Yes.
Well as you might imagine we talked about that internally as well.
I mean again a couple of things go through my mind.
We had a really strong first quarter.
I know that there were price increases April 1 that  probably pulled some Q2 sales into March.
At least we know that now.
March was incredibly strong.
So typically you're right.
I would have looked for a little more.
But again we had debt softness in Asia we had a strong first quarter fantastic results still in all the businesses.
I mean when guys are setting a record it's hard to beat them up.
So I'm not concerned by that at all.
I can see the business model for each of these 4 businesses is intact.
I have high degree of confidence in our ability to perform the way we are predicting.
We'll take our next question from Duffy Fischer with Barclays Capital.
Just a follow-on the dip you saw in a couple of businesses in June and July then you said you're starting to see some signs of uptick.
Can you kind of walk through what are those? What are the guys telling you out in the field that gives you some confidence that things are coming back in Asia? Well it's -- again it was only in a couple of areas.
When we say stabilizing we're just saying it's not declining.
In other words the orders are coming back in.
I'm not -- the reason I used the word stabilizing is because it's not back to the level it was before we saw the downtick but it's not continuing down.
So that's really all I mean.
And I hope people don't read too much into this.
I know everyone's looking for indications of how China's doing across broad markets.
I'll just tell you that our China -- our earnings in China in June were very strong.
But we had these 2 areas we wanted to point out.
Because I know everyone's looking for the canary in the coal mine when it comes to China.
So that's really all it was.
So I don't want you to read too much into it.
We just want to share with you that oxo market was loose and it seems to be stabilizing.
And the solvents market which of course would affect coatings.
It was also weaker demand and -- but we've seen that stabilize.
Okay.
And then in PCI you talked a little bit -- the volume there was up 10 percentage points more than kind of the other segments.
And you talked a little bit about the olefins cracker coming back but you also had one that was down for a while.
Can you dig a little bit deeper into why the volume was so strong in PCI in the quarter? Let me ask Curt to comment on that.
Well when you think about the volumes for PCI if there's a cracker issue it doesn't mean we don't sell the same volume.
We just end up having to buy some of our raw materials rather than making the raw materials.
I'd just add one thing.
You've got Genovique.
You have a full quarter of Genovique in the second quarter of 2011.
You only had it partially in second quarter 2010.
And we didn't have the cracker running at all in the second quarter of 2010.
We brought that up end of the year.
And then just the last one.
On the Sterling acquisition will you get access to the technology that Sterling was running so you can kind of mix that with your own acetic acid technology and maybe make both better? No we should be clear on that.
The technology that runs there is owned by BP.
We will simply be tolling that asset for them.
I mean I'll just make a joke and that's part of the reason BP is comfortable with us running those assets because they trust us.
They know that we'll respect that wall.
We will take our neck next question from Edlain Rodriguez with Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Quick question.
I mean in terms of the improvements you saw in CASPI and PCI can you talk about what the benefits of the spread.
I mean can you qualify that -- I mean quantify that? Well if you look at -- if you're talking specifically second quarter  -- and I'd say second quarter over first quarter we saw roughly a $15 million benefit from the improvement of spreads and that could split roughly 60-40 50-50 depending on propylene or ethylene.
But that's how you split it between PCI and CASPI.
As Jim mentioned in PCI that benefit was offset by some other factors driving sales and offset -- CASPI have some offset as well.
Just to jump in on that I mean -- and to speak about spreads more broadly.
It gives me a chance to brag on once again the business.
I mean when we started the second quarter we were guessing that we would have maybe $35 million to $40 million increase in raw material costs across the whole company.
Remember first quarter over fourth we had $75 million increase in raw material costs.
We had close to $100 million increase in raw material costs second quarter over first quarter and yet we still managed to hold on to our spread through all that.
Inc.</strong> Another quick question on propylene.
I mean propylene prices have been coming down.
Does that mean you're going to have to give up some of the pricing that you had obtained in the first half of the year? It's really market by market but if I'm going stay true to my words there's several places where we're really not pricing off that propylene.
As its derivatives get further downstream you refer to it less and less.
But obviously the same way we can move price when the raws go up we may have to move price when it goes down.
I continue to reemphasize that what we focus on is spread.
Okay.
And one last question.
On that $25 million of costs for unplanned outages what's the split there between the segments? Is it going to be all in PCI and CASPI? What's the split there the impact? To be clear the $25 million we specifically called out was additional shutdown costs from the planned and unplanned second half versus first half.
But having said that you're not far off on the cost of the unplanned when you pick up a little bit in the second quarter and what came in the second half.
I'll let Curt give you as best we can.
I mean it gets across to various businesses.
I mean as you know a chemical company like Eastman does have planned shutdowns.
If I look at first half of the year we had probably less than $20 million of costs associated with shutdowns.
That would have been the Singapore plant Jim talked about et cetera.
If we look at the second half of the year we knew there'd be some planned shutdown costs greater than what we saw in the first half just because we have shutdowns in the fourth quarter tied  with our capacity works and the like.
And that's -- an example's Ireland.
But the unplanned typically gets split between PCI getting the biggest piece of that cost.
Because what you're doing is you're buying propylene instead of making it and CASPI would be next.
And Specialty Plastics even picks with $0.01 or $0.02 of that.
So it would mainly be felt in PCI but CASPI what also get a pretty good share.
Inc.</strong> Of the unplanned? Yes of the unplanned.
We'll go next to Dave Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Jim very strong earnings in Specialty Plastics but why are they down in the second half of the year versus first half? They've always had a bit of seasonality I think.
I can go back and check the numbers.
Part of that too is when you have just such a strong first half.
As I look at it I understand some of the things that are going on.
And again it is harder for you to see.
So we know we're going to be shutting down some of our assets to tie in these capacity expansions.
I know in many of the markets they're pretty much sold out and so it's all a matter of improving mix and we did a lot of that in the first half.
But third quarter's not going to be off by much from second quarter.
And then the fourth quarter for this company everything seems to always come off some which is just what we've learned to deal with.
And Specialty Plastic's no exception.
And Jim any update on the plans for the fourth  cracker down in Texas? Yes.
I'm glad you asked -- I mean because I know I mentioned that last time.
You might think what in the devil were you guys doing? So there's a couple of smaller things we can do.
What we did -- let me back up.
We did put a team in place to look at this.
While it's not huge for Eastman it's still -- it's a nice goodie we have that we have these crackers down in Texas.
And so we put a team in place to look at how we optimize that.
You know that -- I think we got out ahead of the crowd in restarting the cracker when we did since it was online even last year.
There's a couple of smaller things that we can do.
Smaller projects smaller meaning that it may add $10 million to $20 million in earnings.
30% plus kind of returns.
Those are the kind of things we're going to get started on right away and they'll start to kick in towards the end of next year I guess you would say.
We'll see how we do probably towards the end of next year.
On the bigger issues about  just restarting the one cracker that's down.
Our view of the markets and such is that it's going to make sense for us to do something of size let me put it that way.
And whenever I say of size meaning I got to go to my board to get them to approve it.
Starting the cracker would be of size.
But there's more than one option on what that bigger thing would do.
So we're doing some of that preliminary work to pick which of the bigger things we'd like to do.
And of course I will throw the caveat out there.
It depends also what else you're doing with your cash in terms of what you go ahead with.
But my instinct says yes we're going to do the small ones they'll be good for us.
And they'll  probably something bigger we'll do as well.
And we'll try and update you on that before year end.
And Jim just lastly on the M&amp;A pipeline can you give us any update either color or such? Yes.
And Curt may want to chime in although we usually work pretty well behind on this.
We continue to think we can put money to work.
I mean you heard much cash Curt said he had.
And all these - I'd like to remind people all these earnings forecasts and stuff we do there's always upside in terms of how else we can push this cash to work.
So I'd say the pipeline is looking pretty good to me in terms of having options.
We can actually start to choose between what we go after as compared to maybe 1.5 year 2 years ago.
It was hard to find something that someone wanted to shake loose.
You see the size of ones we've done.
We could do bigger than the $100 million $150 million but the truth is the sweet spot in the pipeline for where you get the most ideas and can drive the value you want is probably those small to midsized bolt-ons that fit with one of our businesses.
But I always say I reserve all my rights.
If we were to do something bigger it would have to be exceptionally good and it would have to be kind of a no-brainer for the Street.
But the odds are that what we're getting done are the small- to medium-sized bolt-ons.
And so we've got Sterling that we're trying to get closed.
And I would expect we'll have more announcements before year end.
We will take our next question from Robert Koort with Goldman Sachs.
This is Manav.
Just a quick question you are still net buyers of propylene right? Yes.
So if the propane/propylene spread actually comes down because the propylene prices are declining? Do you actually tend to benefit from it? Or is it just the other way around? It's usually the other way around.
And it has to do with the more dominant impact of the pricing on the products driven by the higher propylene versus the amount that we actually buy.
And how much are you actually buying right now? It's about 2/3 and 1/3.
So I don't have the number for you.
We make 2/3 and we buy 1/3.
We had stayed a little bit because we've had some cracker issues.
So we've been buying a little more propylene than we'd like to have to buy lately.
But we're typically in the 60% 70% -- in the 70% make and 30% to 33% buy.
And the next cracker which you're for taking down for planned outage what's going to be the duration for that one? It's a typical turnaround.
And those are usually 10 days to 2 weeks if you do it well.
And I would expect we'll do it well.
And on the pricing side of the acetyl stream what kind of prices are you looking at? Are they holding up pretty well or that's slightly coming down at this point? Well again I'm not sure how familiar you are with us.
But we're -- when you think acetyls if you're thinking acid that's not really all that important to us.
So we're more of the anhydride and derivative kind of player.
And those prices had been good.
Obviously I mean if you'd -- well I just said how much cost went up quarter-over-quarter $100 million.
And we held out our spread across the company.
So I'd say the pricing we've been able to get is in line with what was in the roster.
We'll go next to Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
In -- how are you doing in general in offsetting your higher raw materials with higher prices in Fibers? Are you making progress in that area? Well judging by the results I'd say we're doing okay.
I mean they just had a record quarter.
So I know Jeff you know how we do it that it's an annual pricing -- typically annual pricing.
But the pulp is set -- is also set annually.
So if you read in the month-to-month gyrations and viscous pulp which isn't ours -- in the pulp market our pricing and our costs are pretty much locked in.
The one thing that can move around a little bit is coal because we do start with coal.
But if you look at what percent of our cost that is small.
So overall I'd say yes.
We did okay when it came to covering our cost supplies.
Well that's what I thought in that you earned a little bit more than $170 million in the first half and you expect to earn about $340 million for the year.
I would think you would earn more than that given that you seem to be pricing pretty well versus raw materials and your volume's growing no? Well obviously we told you what we think.
We think we're going to do about $340.
I mean I guess we're looking at -- what we can see that you can't see is volume by quarter where it comes out of.
I can tell you for example when we run Korea full-- Korea as good as it is is a little higher cost than say Kingsport would be.
So the mix can move around too a little bit that you can't see so well.
But overall we feel good about the business Jeff.
I mean we're selling all the total we can make.
And I think those are pretty good results reported.
Are you worried about propane and propylene spreads in the third quarter? Not really.
Maybe I should be given that all the conversation people are having around us.
But I mean again I look at PCI they got a nice acetyl stream.
They have a great Plasticizer business.
We are -- whatever the spreads even if they come in some and remember that was our indication that was our expectation second half they would come in some.
We factored that into when we gave our guidance.
So obviously if it does a lot more.
I mean we'll feel it.
But again I don't think you should see us move around quite the same as someone who is just stopping at that point in the value chain and selling out the propylene or ethylene.
So what you said in your guidance if I understand that is that you'd earned about a little bit more than do $222 million in third quarter.
And you earned $276 million in the second quarter.
And I think Curt said you had a $0.07 tax credit.
So that's about -- your earnings should drop about $0.47 sequentially which is about $50 million pretax.
So where's $50 million drop? Like if you had sort of allocated around the segments.
What are the big differences? I'm going to let Curt help you.
But I would say first half to second half to come off is not unusual.
Remember that we're going to eat most of the pain on the unplanned shutdown in this quarter so -- but Curt I don't know what color you want to give.
Jeff I mean if I had to predict the waterfall and we'll see how the third quarter plains out.
But again one of the factors is just some of the unplanned maintenance cost associated with shutdowns Jim mentioned.
In addition as we talk about -- we expect the propylene/propane spreads to come back in relative to the peaks of the second quarter.
So those were 2 key factors and then some of the seasonal volume decline as Jim mentioned.
So you would see PCI and CASPI probably come off the most.
I'm guessing you'd see Fibers and Specialty Plastics just was come off a little bit.
And then lastly is there any positive price momentum that you've got from the second to the third quarter? Because I mean it looks -- judging from your CASPI results maybe you didn't get as much.
You didn't move prices up as quickly as you might have and maybe some of that momentum will flip over to third quarter.
Is there something to that? I'm not looking at it that way.
I mean we'll see what the guys can do.
But I think they actually did a good job of price versus the raws.
So it's not like I think they're lagging on the raw materials when they have 20% margin or so I believe.
And that's -- I think they're pretty much there.
The place where there's probably the most pricing power is -- one of the tightest markets is in the adhesives or the resins part of CASPI extremely tight right now and not necessarily any relief coming anytime soon in terms of capacity other than we're expanding on Middleburg site.
We will take our next question from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
Jim regarding your introduction I still believe you should use your bully pulpit to start a Jeff Ferguson for Senate movement and help troubleshoot the situation here now.
He would've shot somebody by now so that's probably a good idea he's not in these days.
On CASPI you talked -- actually I think you were talking about your prices being up nicely and driven in large part to high capacity utilization.
And so I was wondering where you stood in the quarter on your capacity utilization for that segment and where you are were relative to the industry.
And any color you can give on the third quarter to date would be great.
CASPI is a running a fairly high utilization again the resins piece for example is way up there.
I mean basically if we can make it work we can sell it.
So we're trying to make all we can.
Let me use your question Frank to talk about utilization across the whole company.
I mean this is one of the things that most people don't understand.
They think "Well gee aren't you running out of capacity?" I went back and looked at the numbers and first quarter we ran around 90%.
We run a little higher this quarter but what's interesting is even though we had 9% more volume year-over-year our utilization was a point less than it was a year ago.
So between adding the cracker the capacity creep we get the acquisition we  did we find some way to get fairly high single-digit volume growth and yet we didn't have to use up capacity utilization.
Let's put it that way.
So the parts of the company that are running hard right now are acetyls which of course affects a lot of CASPI.
The olefins is down you might say artificially down because of the unplanned shutdown we had.
So olefins would be 10 points lower utilization rates say than acetyls.
But overall company running at pretty good utilization rate.
But as I said last time there's more capacity in most of our markets.
Okay.
Great.
And Curt I believe when you we're discussing the uses of cash you said that the goal is to offset dilution and perhaps the opportunistic.
And obviously the last couple of quarters I mean back to the fourth quarter -- certainly the first quarter and this past quarter the rate of share buyback had been well in excess I would hope of offsetting dilution.
Do you anticipate that level of spend to continue here in the back half of the year? Well we have reduced share count as you have pointed out.
I think if you just look through 6 months our actual share count's down 700 000 shares.
You don't see it quite yet in the fully diluted share count because of some of the timing and when the purchases occurred versus some of the options exercised.
If I look about the repurchase level that we're going to have I know you're probably tired of this phrase but we're going to continue to do it at a measured pace and continue to more than offset the dilution as we ramp up the year.
All right.
So I'll take that as a yes.
He always uses all his rights to do what he wants to do with his cash based upon the opportunities he sees.
Well take our next question from John Rosenwald [ph] with Rosenwald Enterprises [ph].
I'm a shareholder and I see a bit of $93.75 in the pre-market and $97 ask.
It might be a good time to accelerate some of those share repurchases and take advantage of what seems to be a bargain basement price on the shares in relation to the results.
Well I appreciate the advice.
I appreciate you being a shareholder.
I try not to think day-to-day but I haven't had a chance to go look and see what's happening in the market.
I mean it just seems to be ridiculous.
We had a $103 stock yesterday and it should be at $108.
Well you would have thought record earnings -- let me use your comment.
And I appreciate what you're saying.
And as a CEO it always falls on deaf ears if I complain about my evaluation.
But I love the quality of earnings we just turned out.
For some crazy reason people would have been happier if it come in this material spread as compared to coming across all 4 our businesses driven by the value proposition of our products in the marketplace.
So I think we have high quality of earnings.
I think sometimes it just takes the market a while to realize what they've got.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to today's speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks again everyone for joining us this morning.
A web replay a replay in a downloadable MP3 format and the accompanying slides for this conference call will available on our website from 11 a.m.
this morning.
Thanks again.
Have a great day.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation.
Again this will conclude today's conference call.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We'll now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thank you Tricia and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Jim Rogers Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Fernando Subijana our new Manager of Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover 3 items.
First during this call you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations for fourth quarter 2011 and full year 2012.
Actual results could differ materially from our plans and expectations.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's third quarter 2011 financial results news release on our website and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-Q filed for the second quarter 2011 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for third quarter 2011.
Second except where otherwise indicated all financial measures referenced in the call and in the slides accompanying the call will be non-GAAP financial measures including earnings per share and operating earnings that exclude asset impairments or restructuring charges and gains.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and other associated disclosures including a description of the restructuring related items are available in our second quarter 2011 financial results news release and the tables accompanying the news release.
Third earlier this month we completed a two-for-one stock split.
All per share amounts in this presentation have been adjusted for the split.
Lastly we have posted the slides that accompany our remarks for this morning's call on our website at www.investors.eastman.com in the Presentations &amp; Events (sic) [Events &amp; Presentation] section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
I'm on Slide 3 and as is my normal practice I'll begin with a review of our 2011 outlook statements that we made back in July.
For third quarter we said we expected to be above third quarter 2010 EPS of $1.11 and we delivered with EPS of $1.19.
For the year we said we expected to be slightly above $4.62 and our current full year guidance is about the same and I'll talk more about that in a few minutes.
We said we expected free cash flow for the year to be approximately $200 million and we made some decisions that may bring us a little below that number but still very healthy and Curt will take you through the details on that.
And lastly we said we would continue to be disciplined in how we put cash to work and we have been.
During the quarter stockholders received almost $150 million through the combination of dividends and share repurchases.
We completed 3 acquisitions in the quarter Sterling Chemicals Scandiflex and Dynaloy.
And we expect Sterling and Scandiflex to be slightly accretive to earnings this year accretive above our cost of capital next year and both support growth in non-phthalate plasticizers and Scandiflex gives us a manufacturing presence in Brazil.
And Dynaloy will support our growth efforts for electronic materials within CASPI.
And we remain on schedule for a number of capacity additions throughout the company.
So I think Eastman is well-positioned with solid core businesses and a strong balance sheet to demonstrate the resilience of our earnings and what is definitely an uncertain economic environment.
Turning to Slide 4 and our corporate results for the quarter.
Revenue increased by 20% primarily driven by higher selling prices.
Volume was flat and this reflects some softening of demand in a few markets as well as inventory destocking due to significant volatility in raw material cost and also likely some cash flow management.
Operating earnings were down slightly year-over-year and there are number of factors.
In third quarter 2011 we had $11 million in cost from the earlier unplanned outage of one of our crackers in Texas and this has been backed up and running since early August.
And we recognized $8 million from an acetyl technology license with Chang Chun Petrochemical.
You may remember we also had $12 million in revenue on earnings from this license in the first quarter of 2010.
Looking back at third quarter 2010 we were helped by $22 million from the partial recovery of an insurance settlement related to a power outage at our Texas facility.
So with these factors considered the year-over-year is actually positive as higher selling prices more than offsets substantially higher raw material and energy cost and earnings per share of $1.19 are a record third quarter for us.
Moving next to the segments starting with CASPI on Slide 5.
Sales revenue increased year-over-year primarily reflecting higher selling prices in response to higher raw material and energy costs.
For example propane costs were up about 40% year-over-year in the third quarter.
Operating earnings declined but the story is similar to the corporate story.
Third quarter 2011 op earnings included $3 million of costs from the unplanned cracker outage and third quarter 2010 operating earnings included $9 million from the partial insurance settlement.
Outside of these 2 factors selling prices more than offset higher raw material and energy cost.
Looking at the fourth quarter we anticipate a normal seasonal decline in volume.
Some of this is destocking which is normal in the fourth quarter.
Some is caution given the economic uncertainty.
But at this point for CASPI we don't see anything more than that and we expect raw material and energy costs to remain volatile.
As a result we're bringing down their full year outlook slightly from over $350 million of op earnings to approximately $340 million which would still be an annual record.
Next up is Fibers on Slide 6 and their earnings strength continues.
Revenue was up 11% year-over-year.
There was a favorable shift in product mix as we have now filled out the Korea acetate tow capacity expansion and are benefiting from additional tow sales in Asia Pacific.
And selling prices were up to offset higher raw material and energy costs particularly for wood pulp.
Operating earnings were up slightly due to the higher tow volume in Asia.
For the full year Fibers remains on track for operating earnings of approximately $340 million which would be an annual record for them and it would be their eighth in a row.
PCI is next on Slide 7 and they had an excellent quarter in a very challenging environment.
Revenue increased 39% year-over-year due to higher selling prices and a favorable shift in product mix.
The selling prices were in response to higher raw material and energy costs.
The favorable shift in product mix was due to increased plasticizers sales $8 million of revenue from the acetyl license and $15 million of revenue from the acquired Sterling Chemicals business.
Operating earnings increased year-over-year and consistent with the corporate and CASPI story.
There were a number of items included in the results.
Third quarter 2011 operating earnings included $8 million of cost from the unplanned outage of one of our crackers and $8 million from an acetyl technology license offsetting each other.
Third quarter 2010 operating earnings though included $12 million from the partial settlement of an insurance claim.
Outside of these factors operating earnings increased year-over-year primarily due to higher selling prices more than offsetting higher raw material and energy cost.
Sequentially although we were able to mostly hold selling prices as raw materials and energy cost declined operating earnings were lower due to seasonally lower sales volume.
We are expecting normal seasonally lower volumes -- I'm sorry this is looking forward into the fourth quarter.
We're going to have some challenges including normally seasonally lower volumes.
In addition U.S.
propylene prices have dropped significantly.
We believe there are a number of factors driving this.
The market-built propylene inventories in the third quarter in preparation for several turnarounds during the fourth quarter and came into the quarter with higher inventories.
At the same time overall demand was slowing because propylene derivatives became expensive relative to the rest of the world due to the high U.S.
propylene prices and therefore exports were curtailed.
And there's also likely been inventory destocking due to the expected drop in propylene prices.
We think the market is over correcting from the high September prices because a lot of what is happening is due to seasonal factors and because additional turnarounds of refineries in crackers are expected in the remainder of the quarter.
In long term we remain confident that the propane-propylene spread will be an advantage for Eastman.
Despite the fourth quarter challenges we still expect that PCI operating earnings for the year will be approximately $300 million which would be an annual record.
Specialty Plastics is on Slide 8.
Revenue was up 4% as higher selling prices more than offset lower sales volume.
The higher selling prices were primarily in response to higher paraxylene cost and paraxylene prices were up more than 60% year-over-year in the quarter.
The lower sales volume was due to a few factors.
First we've seen some slowing in the packaging and consumer durable goods markets in North America and then the LCD market in Asia.
Second we believe there was some destocking in the quarter and expectation of lower paraxylene prices.
And third because paraxylene cost have gone up as much as they have and therefore copolyester prices have increased we've seen some switching by customers to competing materials that haven't had the same raw material pressure.
As a result operating earnings were flat year-over-year and down slightly sequentially.
Looking forward we expect volume to decline seasonally in the fourth quarter.
In addition we will have additional costs related to planned capacity additions.
These are for Tritan resin copolyester monomer and cellulose triacetate.
Despite the challenging environment we continue to expect Specialty Plastics operating earnings will approach $120 million.
A review of our regional performance is on Slide 9.
We continue to have year-over-year revenue growth in all regions.
In the quarter the revenue growth was driven by higher selling prices which increased primarily due to higher raw material and energy cost.
The revenue split in the quarter was 54% in the U.S.
and Canada 46% in the rest of the world.
This split is about the same on a year-to-date basis.
Operating earnings both for the quarter and year-to-date were the reverse with 53% of our earnings in Asia Europe and Latin America combined and 47% in the U.S.
and Canada.
The bottom line is that we are continuing to benefit from the geographic diversity of our revenue and earnings.
Turning next to our guidance for fourth quarter and full year 2011.
We expect normal seasonality in volumes including destocking in the fourth quarter but we have yet to see signs of softness in our fourth quarter volumes beyond normal seasonality although our visibility has declined in certain of our businesses as customers orders -- as customers order more frequently and in smaller quantity.
We expect raw material and energy cost to continue to be volatile.
We're expecting propylene to continue to be under pressure in the quarter.
We also expect propane prices to potentially increase from current levels as it gets colder outside.
And we are expecting paraxylene to remain near current levels perhaps declining even a little as we get closer to the end of the year.
As I mentioned previously we do have planned maintenance in the fourth quarter and there's more than we normally have.
All 3 of our streams have turnarounds in their manufacturing assets.
In the acetyl stream coal gasification has a major maintenance turnaround that occurs once every 3 to 4 years.
Polymers has start-up cost as we prepare capacity additions to come online in the first half of 2012 and we have a number of turnarounds in our olefins stream.
We are also continuing to invest in growth and this includes increased cost on what we report as other related to our planned acetylated wood launch in Spring of 2012.
Taken together we expect fourth quarter 2011 EPS will be above fourth quarter 2010 and our full year 2011 earnings will be approximately $4.62 about consistent with our full year guidance from July.
And normally I do a CEO spotlight where I talk about an individual or something that I want to highlight but I expect that there would be some interest if I turn that CEO spotlight on the propane-propylene spread and how changes in the spread are impacting our results.
So in an effort for transparency we put together Slide 11 which provide some additional detail on how our earnings have been impacted over the last 5 years including 2011.
You can see in the table at the bottom of the slide the annual average propane to propylene spread based on data from CMAI.
And the higher the number the more beneficial the spread is to Eastman since in the U.S.
we make 2/3 of our propylene using mainly propane as the primary feedstock and we purchase the remaining 1/3 of our propylene needs.
The blue bars are corporate full year operating earnings.
We haven't included a number for 2011 yet of course because the year isn't complete.
And the green bars indicate our best estimate of operating earnings impact from producing versus purchasing propylene and ethylene.
I'd add that the estimated impact in 2011 also includes the benefit from restarting one of the crackers in December of 2010.
And what you see is that we expect a little less than 15% of our earnings in 2011 are the result of producing versus purchasing olefins and that the average impact has been about 10% a year.
In 2009 as you can see it was actually negative.
But you'd probably agree with me that that wasn't necessarily a typical year.
The impact of producing versus purchasing olefins is not linear to the spread you are seeing for a few reasons and this is a kind of stuff that's hard for you to see on the outside so that's why we wanted to get this slide in front of you.
First keep in mind that the impact is for both propylene and ethylene.
Second the impact reflects both the capacity utilization of the crackers and the fact that we have both added and idled crackers over the last 5 years.
Third our businesses have been working hard to reduce the volatility.
This includes long-term agreements with key customers.
And lastly some of our derivative pricing reflects propane cost rather than propylene.
So some contracts price off of propane instead of propylene.
With that said the benefit of producing versus purchasing olefins will continue to be a contributor to our earnings performance but by no means is it the only or even primary driver of our earnings.
We have a number of very strong businesses that are growing that have no exposure to the spread.
Think of Specialty Plastics Fibers the resins product line in CASPI and the acetyl products in the PCI as examples.
As I've said before if what you are primarily interested in is exposure to low cost olefins in the Gulf there are other companies with significantly more exposure than Eastman that would be a better play for you.
I'll conclude this morning with some general comments about 2012.
We certainly don't have clear visibility into 2012 at this point but we do know we have some strong tailwinds and that we are confronting a number of potential headwinds.
On the potential headwinds these are really outside of Eastman's control.
First the uncertain economic environment and although we don't see signs of recession we are watching order patterns closely.
Second volatility of raw materials and energy cost to become normal for us and we continue to work our way -- on ways to lessen the impact.
And giving the low level of interest rates we expect to have higher pension expense in 2012.
For tailwinds these are more specific to Eastman.
We have a strong core of businesses that we expect will deliver resilient earnings despite the uncertain environment.
We made a number of changes to our portfolio over the past 10 years.
And today we have a core of businesses in which we are very confident.
We have capacity additions throughout the company that come online next year and they are in areas where Eastman has an advantage be it in Tritan copolyester or Regalite hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins.
We will also have a full year benefit from the Sterling Chemicals and Scandiflex acquisitions which we completed in August and we continue to have a strong balance sheet.
And as we have done throughout 2011 we will allocate capital towards earnings growth and we'll use all lines of the income statement to grow EPS.
If it turns out that 2012 is just a slow growth environment and there are no other shocks of the global economy I believe Eastman is well-positioned to continue to grow EPS from this year.
And with that I'll turn it over to Curt Okay.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I'll begin on Slide 14.
We generated solid cash flow in the third quarter at over $200 million.
Net earnings continue to be strong.
We did make a tax payment of $28 million for the gain on the PET divestiture and expect to make another $27 million payment in the fourth quarter for a total $110 million for the year.
In addition we built inventories in the third quarter in preparation for plan manufacturing maintenance in the fourth quarter that Jim just mentioned.
Our free cash flow in the third quarter was $80 million and through 9 months free cash is negative $77 million.
We are on track for a strong free cash flow in the fourth quarter resulting in an expected free cash flow for the year of between $175 million and $200 million.
This has changed from our last guidance primarily due to the increase in capital expenditures likely to be around $475 million for the year as growth projects are progressing well some infact ahead of schedule.
We still expect strong cash generation in the fourth quarter due to normal seasonal patterns and working capital and as we work those inventories back down.
We ended the quarter with about $650 million of cash on our balance sheet and we continue to have a healthy level of debt capacity available to pursue targeted growth projects all within the parameters of a strong investment-grade credit rating.
On Slide 15 you can see how we've been allocating capital year-to-date in 2011.
And this is very consistent with how we've told you we would be allocating our capital: a mixture of supporting growth and returning cash to stockholders.
We talked about the capital expenditures and acquisitions already this morning.
Combined they represent about 50% of the capital that we put to work so far in 2011.
In these acquisitions the capital expenditures will support our earnings growth in 2012 and beyond.
We have also been consistently returning cash to stockholders.
We raised our dividend in August of this year and back in December of last year and we have a yield of over 2.5% today.
We're recognizing that the dividend is a board decision.
Stockholders should continue to expect as our earnings grow so will our dividend.
And we continue to repurchase shares.
In the third quarter we repurchased $115 million.
And through 9 months we repurchased almost $300 million.
Our share count is now down over 5 million shares since the beginning of 2010.
Combined through the dividends and share repurchase we've returned almost $400 million to stockholders so far this year.
We also made $100 million pension contribution in the first quarter with a discount rate as low as it's getting.
We will probably look at making another pension contribution sometime over the next several quarters.
Sitting here today I would expect such a contribution to be similar to the confirmation we made earlier part of this year.
I continue to believe that disciplined allocation of capital is how we can differentiate ourselves and you should expect us to continue to allocate capital in a disciplined way with a bias towards earnings growth.
And as a good example of that earnings growth I'll end this morning with a few comments on our Sterlings acquisition.
We closed the transaction in August a few weeks after our second quarter call.
Our primary reason for acquiring Sterling was their plasticizer manufacturing assets.
They had previously supplied ortho-phthalate-based plasticizers but their underlying contract had been terminated and the asset idled.
We are now in the process of converting this asset so that it can produce our Eastman 168 non-ortho-phthalate plasticizer.
The conversion will take place in 2 phases to match anticipated growth with the first phase online in the first half of 2012 and the second phase brought online when warranted.
Given the strong demand for these products we expect the whole phases of the expansions will be filled out in 2014.
The underlying market for non-phthalate plasticizer is estimated to be growing about 7% annually in North America and Europe.
Key end markets as you can see on the slide are building and construction packaging and health and wellness.
When this asset is fully filled up [ph] our projected sales revenue should be greater than $200 million with operating margins better than those for the overall PCI segment.
We purchased earlier for about $100 million in cash.
It is on track to be slightly accretive to the 2011 earnings per share excluding transaction costs and charges.
We paid about 4x posts synergy 2012 EBITDA and we expect will be accretive above cost of capital in 2012 and significantly more accretive than that as those plasticizer assets fill-up [ph] going into 2014.
As a reminder when we say accretive above cost to capital we mean that we expect earnings from the acquired businesses will be above the cost of going to the capital markets to fund the transaction.
These are the kinds of acquisitions we continue to look for.
I will say the M&amp;A environment has slowed down some somewhat over the last couple of months given the economics and other uncertainties.
But we continue to have a number of opportunities in our pipeline that we are considering.
With that I'll turn it back over to Greg.
Okay thanks Curt and this concludes our prepared remarks.
Tricia we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jim could you quantify the impact of the propane-propylene spread for us this in Q2 and what your expectation is for Q4? Yes let me do it this way because there's obviously been a little written about it a little talk about it.
So far year-to-date it's probably worth about $130 million to us so that green bar you see on 2011 and realize this is an approximation because we haven't gone through the year is close to the $140 million so we would expect the fourth quarter is going to be $10 million.
And obviously the biggest quarter of the year for us was probably the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> And just on the turnaround cost in Q4 can you quantify those costs and what they were a year ago? Well just on a comparison quarter-over-quarter I think it's about another $10 million.
Yes.
Well Dave the way to think about it is on a sequential basis it's about $15 million higher $10 million of that just primarily related to that acetyl coal gasification plant turnaround that Jim mentioned on a year-over-year basis so I think it's about $10 million.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly Jim if paraxylene prices stay where they are what's the impact on Specialty Plastics as a structural profitability here? Right.
Well it's not just one part.
I mean you've got the other raw materials as well.
So as we look at it we think paraxylene could be high for as much as 1 or 2 more years then probably falls back in the lightness [ph] as more capacity comes on.
So you've already seen some of the pain from having a higher raw than your competitors have.
There easily could be more pain on the other hand most of what you're seeing on Specialty Plastics is I would say at least as we think about it in normal seasonal decline as well as above average destocking.
The switching from our products to other products I think it had to be a pretty big gap in price for that to finally happen because of functionality and how well our products work.
They just do a better job.
But at one point at a tipping point people will flip over.
Some of them will if they can.
So the higher end applications where we moved a lot of the products due in the past 2 or 3 years were Specialty Plastics.
And a big part of the reason why you're seeing such a different level of performance out of them those I don't worry about.
But when you get down to applications that need less functionality that's where you're exposed.
But I would also think that that's not a long-term issue.
The other thing I'd say things like Tritan I think are going to continue to be very strong.
We'll move on to P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get your view on the propane market.
Some of the midstream companies are building capacity to export more propylene from the Gulf Coast so you could be competing with them with the exports.
How do you see that playing out? Yes.
I mean I don't know if anyone's been real good at guessing this.
Frankly I was surprised propane didn't come off more in the summer and it didn't really.
On the other hand maybe it's going to smooth out and and not quite as seasonal as it's been.
I don't expect propane to come sharply offer anything like that because I think the trend that you talk about is real.
On the other hand on the propylene side if we look out and try and make our best estimates we're probably in our humble opinion bottoming here in the fourth quarter maybe carrying it over into the first quarter and then I think expectations are propylene will probably start picking up again early next year.
But we'll see.
I mean we never would have guessed the second quarter had this kind of spread it did and we think this is a bit of an overreaction here at year end in the propane-propylene spread.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second [indiscernible] you got the $8 million in licenses -- license fees.
As your licenses build-out this new plans how do you see the supply/demand in acetyl playing out? Well I mean we look at it little differently than some of the other big acetyl players.
We're more of a big and high-drive player very much big presence in North America and the asset isn't quite as important to us.
So on several levels I'm not really concerned for Eastman in terms of overcapacity in the asset yields.
I think our markets in the niches we play in are very strong.
Just in terms of licensing I look back and I think we said we probably had the licensing.
Well we've had licensing income in every year but big enough to call out was what Greg? 4 in the last 7 years.
Yes 4 out of the last 7 years.
So I think there is definitely demand that continue selling these licenses and we're working on things now.
But they'll always come in.
The longer term you probably should expect those like every other year.
We'll take our next question from Nils Wallin from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Question on wood pulp cost.
I saw that they -- there are some increase in the quarter and typically I thought you bought these on annual contracts.
And so given that pulp prices are already coming down in the fourth quarter and could come down double digits next year how do you think that will affect your overall profitability in Fibers? Well first please go and talk to our wood pulp suppliers and tell them that's exactly what we should all expect.
Look it is an annual negotiation.
We do by the way have a little bit of business under contract that adjust based on raw materials during the year.
But overall the market is still an annual kind of market.
I try not to talk too much about spread in the of Fibers business over raw materials we compete on so many other things in terms of service and keeping our customers' plants running.
So frankly if raw materials come off I would expect we would not get as much pricing as we thought.
All I can say is year in and year out Fiber seems to have very good margin very consistent profitability and I'm proud the fact they've been able to grow for 8 years in a row.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Then on the copolyester.
Obviously you highlighted the -- some shifts there and people shifting out because of the high paraxylene cost.
Could you give us a sense of how permanent those shifts are and how quickly they move back and forth certainly if there's requalifications that are needed.
And I would assume this is more of a commodity end of the business because it -- this one used to think copolyester fit in a position between cost and property.
Yes it's a good question and I don't want to pretend like I can analyze every piece of what's moving.
I can tell you you can compete on price at that lower end of the market not something we're always trying to make sure we're on top of are we making the right call?   Price versus volume.
These special applications the higher-end things where people just really need our product.
We think we've been very disciplined and very responsible in our pricing and we haven't seen much shifting or moving there.
On the lower commodity end we will review again how we want to handle pricing.
Do I think I can get that business back with price? Absolutely because we have a better product and the issue is is it the smart and right thing to do.
Longer term I have every confidence that our copolyester product line has good growth characteristics.
And it's funny we had -- it's almost like we spoiled the market with some strong performance earlier in the year but this third quarter for Specialty Plastics is still a fantastic quarter.
We'll take our next question from Manav Gupta with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I had a few questions.
On the Fibers front how is the demand holding up? I mean you're seeing inventory destocking in plastics but are you seeing robust demand in Fibers? Demand in Fibers? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes I think it has held up.
I mean the business is going stronger.
Greg it looks like he wants to say something.
Go ahead Greg what is it? No.
I mean acetate tow demand is doing just fine within Fibers.
Maybe there'll be some seasonality and destocking as you go into the fourth quarter.
If you think about acetate yarn we have seen some -- a little bit of softness there and that's probably more indicative of what's happening with textiles generally in the market.
And if I could I mean just on the acetate yarn So it's not a super big deal for us but it's probably a good indicator for you in terms of consumers around the world and that has softened up the demand.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the second thought I mean as propylene prices rose there were some demand destruction and again product substitution.
Now that they have bottomed out do you think propylene derivatives will gain back some of the markets they had lost to other plastics and in the process there will be an equilibrium reached where propylene prices move up and help you guys? Yes absolutely.
I mean guys there's still a cycle out there for different products and things that are commodities still move back and forth.
There's a little bit of friction on the supply side where people don't move their refineries around every month.
But when you have these big swings people overreact.
And they overreact not only on the supply side but also on the demand side.
So yes we see it coming back our way from what we're experiencing here in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And lastly one more.
Paraxylene prices were primarily higher because of unplanned outages and a whole bunch of outages in Asia and Middle East which are now subsiding.
So do you see that market coming in quickly and paraxylene prices collapsing in near term or will it take more time? Yes I wish but that's not what my guys are telling me.
They're saying that they could -- I don't know if they stay quite this high.
They are coming down.
But collapse I haven't heard anyone said so I would think para will come off -- be coming off by year and.
But long term we probably got 1 year or 2 before you get the additional capacity online assuming that demand stays the way it is for the polyester fabrics.
And we also try and pay attention to cotton.
Again that's a hard one to call.
But I would think Curt or Greg isn't that what we're saying? We think paras probably going to be coming off by year end? Right slightly off.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And when can we expect the 2012 guidance guys? Well we'll do it more than likely on the next conference call.
The one thing I threw out there is -- I've said jeez for the 2.5 years or so I've been CEO.
We're working on year-over-year earnings growth.
And so we're right now thinking about what makes '14 better than '13.
What do you put in place? You got to have a long lead time on some of the things we do in terms of building things.
So the one thing I take quite a bit of comfort in I don't know how you all should look at it but you look at our balance sheet you look at the cash.
Our debt capacity.
I mean unless we have a severe recession or real downturn we ought to be able to put cash to work drive our core businesses such that we have higher earnings next year than this year We'll take our next question from Duffy Fischer with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to just go to that Slide 11.
So the bars you showed the earnings impact from the spread.
Is that the true economic impact to Eastman so like when we think about you maybe bringing back online that fourth propane cracker in Texas these are the kind of numbers that you would look at against the capital cost to get your return? Yes this is the spread just from making versus buying propylene and ethylene.
So that cracker coming back online.
If you look at that $70 million in 2010 to $140 million in 2011 maybe $30 million of that improvement is probably new crackers coming back online just to give you a ballpark.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then if we jump into oxo alcohols a little bit can you talk about what you're seeing in that end market in profitability trends there? It's getting more competitive.
You're talking like butanol and 2-EH et cetera? Research Division</strong> Yes 2-EH in particular yes.
Yes that's getting more competitive.
Obviously we're also a big user of 2-EH because we use that for our plasticizer business and other products.
But I guess I can't give you any more color than that Greg have you heard -- I haven't heard the guys overly complain about that.
The one thing I'll say is in things like solvents and CASPI and some of the more commodity end products I do see people getting more competitive out there.
I do see him chasing some volume.
I don't -- I wouldn't call it lack of discipline but they're certainly less discipline out there in the marketplace on the lower end commodities stuff than there has been.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last one where do you sit now kind of with capacity utilization and tow particularly in the Asia region.
Do we have enough capacity to continue to grow the next couple of years or do we need to put some capital in in the next couple of years? Well we do have enough capacity to grow and of course we are putting some capital in.
Maybe I'll just turn it over to Curt.
Right.
I mean we feel good about our premium [ph] facility that is performing well.
We do have some capacity here back in Kingsport still and then we're doing that joint venture with our customer CNTC China National Tobacco Corporation that will be online in 2013.
We are reporting capital work to grow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But we're not constrained at least until the CNTC stuff comes on? No we're not.
We'll take our next question from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In your release you said that the PCI business was hurt by an olefin cracking unit outage by about $8 million and CASPI by an olefin packing outage by about $3 million.
So how does that work? Are there particular crackers assigned to the particular units or is it ratably by feedstock? Yes Jeff.
It's the same cracker and it's the issue we had in the second quarter and it's just the fact that CASPI -- it does not just affect PCI because CASPI sells derivatives from propylene as well obviously.
And so we're just giving you kind of the ratio and it's allocated by pounds used.
Research Division</strong> So the ratio looks like one is of 3 11 and the other is 8 11.
So it looks like 75% of the cracker output goes to PCI and 25% to CASPI.
Is that the conclusion that one should draw? No I think that's probably little -- it really depends on the derivative pull at that time.
I think in the past what we've talked about is more of a 60-40 kind of sharing of that.
Or 2/3 1/3 and it can bounce around.
It can bounce around.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly the propylene inventories these days are really high.
It's like do you think that that can really be worked down over a 3 or a 6-month period or do you think it will take longer than that? Yes.
I don't know.
I agree with you that they are quite high.
I know that there was destocking.
In fact just on the sense of destocking.
if I think about it the time I've seen the most destocking was the end of '08.
This is probably the second highest that I've heard people talk about destocking at least since I've been here in '99.
So I think there's been -- now this is just me but I think there's been considerable destocking across a number of lines.
And certainly with people expecting lower propylene if it was in your tank you use that first before you went out and bought it.
So yes there's ton of inventory out there.
I don't know how long it'll take to eat through but just in terms of the flip on the spread we're thinking probably as you're coming out of the first quarter you're starting to head north again.
We'll take our next question from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You have a fairly sizable turnaround of your coal gasification unit at Kingsport.
Can you talk a little bit about the expected financial impact of it duration of the outage and how the impact would be spread among your segments? The outage of the coal gasification is roughly 3 weeks.
In fact they're almost coming out of it as we speak so -- we're doing very well against the planned turnaround.
The financial impact is roughly what we described it's that $10 million and it's spread across all of our businesses and asset yield.
So it's not going to be predominantly in one particular business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then Jim you talked about the $154 million of bolt-on acquisitions that you've done year-to-date.
I guess in recent weeks Eastman has been connected with a more sizable potential deal by the European press.
Curt I thought you made a comment that the M&amp;A market had slowed down some.
So I'm trying to read these tea leaves and kind of ascertain what your appetite might be -- appetite or lack thereof for more significant acquisitions in this climate? We're not going to comment on anything specific.
But let me say this I mean we do have a strong balance sheet we have a nice cash position I think in general valuations have come off despite yesterday or things move back up fairly substantially.
What I want people to hear is this we've been prudent you can see we've been I would say even conservative cautious whatever words you want to use.
But if we see the right transaction we're ready to pull the trigger and do it.
My confidence is up that we know how to integrate an acquisition we know how to get one done.
I can tell you if we do one number one you're going to see it as a smart financial transaction.
So you our shareholders will see it as a smart financial transaction.
By that I mean you'll understand the returns above our cost of capital and you'll be able to see the accretion to our earnings.
You'll also see a tie-in to our businesses.
There should be synergy if we're going to do something certainly anything bigger than some of the smaller things we've done.
There should be some good synergy it should have a play to sustainability or to emerging markets.
So we've got a checklist of things that we think would makes sense.
The reason we're still sitting on a lot of cash is we're not just going to jump at anything.
So it has to be the kind of transaction where the world will look at it and say "Ah I understand why Eastman is the highest and best owner of that asset." Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And final question if I may.
Curt can you give as a preliminary notion of how large the pension expense headwind might be for Eastman in 2012? As you know Kevin that's kind of hard to nail down right now because there's moving parts between now and the end of the year.
And it all depends if the last business day of the year is a risk-on or risk-off trade on higher returns.
But it is a headwind.
The headwind we faced coming in to 2011 is around $10 million.
I'd say it's going to be sitting here today I know it's going to be a little over that.
We'll take our next question from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> For what it's worth there's a certain Michigan-based company that is very bullish on the outlook for oxo so hopefully that spreads to Tennessee as well.
Jim I was -- I wanted to try and size the raw material impact year-over-year for you guys.
It looks like pricing helped you buy about $240 million.
What was the impact -- negative impact of raw materials? Let me just give you some round numbers if I can Frank.
So raw materials and energy were probably over $200 million.
Selling price and exchange was a little more than what you said.
But then -- and so my spread over raws and energy year-over-year was still positive as well as -- I had some positive from volume.
But distribution costs were up so it depends on where you want to put that.
But distribution costs were up and my other charges were up from like the outage of the cracker how we took the hit there.
So overall we did a good job on pricing in terms of the movement in raws energy and distribution rate and we picked up just a tad on volumes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I appreciate the Slide 11.
And I'm just curious with the pricing coming off on the propylene side at what point do you think your derivative prices will be reflecting that? How should we think about that? Well you've already seen some in this quarter.
We already -- in some places you already started to move down.
You always try and be sticky you're trying to be stickier moving down than moving up.
But it's that trade off Frank I'd almost have to go product line by product line in terms of your product attributes when you get to derivatives versus others and what you got to do to be competitive on price.
Just looking back on how the quarter closed I'd say we obviously traded a little volume to hold on to margins.
But we always have the ability to switch that the other way if we need to.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I guess the difficult thing is you are heading into a weak volume quarter.
So the stickiness is not going to benefit you as much as perhaps it would in another quarter.
Yes that's correct.
And Frank that's why we put in the guidance that we did.
That's our expectation that it is going to be a lower volume because not only you got the seasonal but I think you still got more inventory destocking to go not just for us but across the industry.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right great.
And I guess along those lines you did mention that the visibility has declined in some of your businesses.
Care to be a bit more specific? Now let me...
I'd characterize it.
Frank we're -- in some of those businesses we used to say 3 to 8 week it's probably more towards 3.
We'll take our next question from Paul Leming with Ticonderoga Securities.
Research Division</strong> I was on and off the call so if you talked about this during your comments and I missed it I apologize.
Could you discuss what you think capital spending is going to be for 2012? And as you're looking at all the variability in the world today do you think the risks to that CapEx number are more to the upside or the downside? When you look at our capital expenditures we're formulating those plans right now.
We tend to give that as part of our overall guidance at the next call because you have to come in line with what's the economic environment you're anticipating what your free cash flow goals and how those tie into it.
But what we'll be doing is we'll develop our plans with a mild growth environment.
We'll be also looking at what Jim talked about our -- all purpose of growing earnings in '13 growing earnings in '14.
So we'll make -- bring all those factors together and make an assessment where our capital plans will be.
And then we'll also have a case if we have a tough economic environment then we can adjust that capital back down.
But we're looking at a capital that's still looking at how we grow our earnings '12 '13 '14 and beyond.
But we'll give you more specifics in the next call.
We'll take our next question from Thomas McGannon with Whetstone Capital.
Could you maybe offer a comment I don't know what comment needs to be made but perhaps just a comment on the joint venture between Mitsubishi Rayon and Daiso and the acetate tow business.
Is that going to impact your competitive market at all? Well not that I've heard about.
I mean when I think about who we compete with and our group of customers -- it's a small group on both ends so we have some long established relationships.
You can see that for example with CNTC that we're doing a joint venture there where we're going to have 45% equity interest.
And I've been around this industry now for about 12 years so I'm not a lifer in it like many people.
But I like the seat at the table that Eastman has.
I like the relationship we have with the multinationals I like the relationship we have with China National Tobacco specifically and I like where our assets are that we have a producing asset in Europe we're producing asset in Asia and then of course we have the big asset in Kingsport.
So I'm not really too worried about competitor moves when it comes to the Fibers business.
And we'll take our next question from Lee Bressler with Cobalt Capital Management.
I wanted to ask you 2 questions really.
And one what environment would you see growth next year? What sort of demand environment would you need to see in order for there to be growth in your business next year? I think we just have talk to -- in the core business I think it just have to be non-recessionary.
In other words I need positive GDP.
Recession I think is tough.
But I also think that one of the advantages I have is the balance sheet I have.
So if I was out there as a single B right now I'd be pretty much stuck with whatever I had today.
But it's a nice BBB.
I feel like I got some flexibility to continue to drive earnings through acquisitions share buybacks et cetera.
Do you think that would be an environment in which propylene prices would come back up or it would they stay flat to current levels? Well I think right now the reason -- one of the reasons we think propylene prices have to come back up on the chemical side is because it's even cheaper than just putting it into the gasoline pool.
So that does seem like there's an imbalance there that's just not going to last.
So obviously the stronger the demand the faster you work through some of those inventories that one of the other callers was talking about.
I never want to predict that I can call a turn or a high or low in a marketplace.
But you can kind of see when things overshoot like they did in the second quarter of this year and that's what fourth quarter first quarter of -- fourth quarter of this year first quarter feels like on the flip side.
And my other question is based on the current propylene price deck do you expect that you would see growth in your numbers in 2012? That is part of the reason for showing you the chart is that when I look at the change in earnings from '10 to '11.
The propylene spread the increased there only explains about 1/4 of the increase.
If you figure just adding a cracker was another piece of the increase and then another half of that $70 million or so I'm sorry of the increase from $8.91 to what we think we are going to do this year.
Another half of that is just completely outside of the spread.
It's a growth in our other businesses plus I think about the capacity we're bringing online in some of the places where we believe we need it.
So yes I don't think we're going to get hung up just on that spread.
I think we can grow our business around it.
That will conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Greg Riddle for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay thanks again for joining us everyone.
A web replay of this conference call a replay and downloadable MP3 format and the accompanying slides for the conference call will be available on our website at 11 a.m.
this morning.
So thanks again.
Have a great day.
Again ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This will conclude today's conference call.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company Fourth Quarter and Year End 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Also this call will be broadcast live on Eastman's website at www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jake and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Jim Rogers Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mark Costa Executive Vice President Specialty Polymers Coatings and Adhesives.
Before we begin I'll cover 3 items.
First during this call you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations for first quarter and full year 2012 and the acquisition of Solutia.
Actual results could differ materially from our plans and expectations.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial results news release and in our news release announcing the agreement to acquire Solutia both of which are on our website and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-Q filed for third quarter 2011 and the Form 10-K to be filed for full year 2011.
Second certain Eastman financial measures referenced in this presentation are non-GAAP financial measures such as earnings per share operating earnings and cash flow from operating activities that exclude asset impairments or restructuring charges and early debt extinguishment costs.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the asset impairments and restructuring charges and early debt extinguishment costs are available on our fourth quarter and full year financial results news release and the tables accompanying the news release which are both available at www.investors.eastman.com.
Third this morning we issued a news release which is available on our website announcing a definitive agreement to acquire Solutia.
I direct you to review the sections in the release regarding where you can find additional information about the transaction that provide additional details about the participants in the merger solicitation and about information for the nonsolicitation.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Greg.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Last night we announced our fourth quarter and full year 2011 results and then this morning we announced we've entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Solutia.
So I'll start this morning with a few slides about our strong 2011 earnings and then I'll spend most of the time this morning talking about why we're excited to be acquiring this great company Solutia.
Last night we announced our fourth quarter and full year 2011 results yes then this morning it was Solutia.
Our agenda this morning begins with a quick review of our fourth quarter and full year 2011 results.
I'm going to do an overview of the transaction and I'll walk through the strategic rationale for our acquisition of Solutia.
Then we'll do a quick overview of Solutia which I'm sure many of you are familiar with.
And then Curt will discuss our financial summary and our EPS forecast for 2012 and 2013 and I'll end with a quick summary before we turn it over to questions.
So starting with a recap of our fourth quarter results on Slide 4.
Revenue increased by 18% mainly due to higher selling prices which increased in response to higher raw material and energy costs.
Operating earnings declined year-over-year primarily in the Specialty Plastics and PCI segments.
The primary driver for Specialty Plastics was lower sales volume and lower capacity utilization.
For PCI higher selling prices were more than offset by higher raw material and energy costs.
EPS of $0.71 slightly above last year.
Still our second best fourth quarter EPS in our history and this was achieved we think in a challenging uncertain environment and underscores that our businesses are solid even in the most difficult environments.
Looking at our full year results on Slide 6.
Our EPS of $4.56 is an annual record eclipsing the record from 2010.
Sales revenue was up 23% and the increase was across the company.
Operating earnings increased significantly in 2011 compared with 2010 as all of our 4 segments had year-over-year earnings growth.
Fiber's operating earnings were a record and 2011 was the eighth straight year for earnings growth.
And even CASPI now has grown their operating earnings 3 years in a row at better than a 10% rate.
And we've now grown our EPS by about 140% since 2009.
The appendix to this presentation has the remainder of our normal earning slide deck for your information.
But now I'm going to transition into discussing our acquisition of Solutia that we announced earlier this morning.
So we've entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Solutia for $22 in cash and 0.12 shares of Eastman stock.
Total enterprise value for the transaction is $4.7 billion which includes $3.4 billion of equity value and the assumption of $1.3 billion of Solutia debt.
Based on last 12 months EBITDA for Solutia the multiple paid excluding the cost and tax synergies is approximately 9x.
This represents a 42% premium to yesterday's closing price on the common stock.
Moving next to the financial impact we expect this transaction will be immediately accretive to earnings upon close and will be substantially accretive to our 2013 EPS.
We've also identified approximately $100 million of cost synergies which we expect to achieve by the end of 2013 and Curt will talk more about these in a few minutes.
There will also be a significant benefit from the utilization of Solutia's NOLs and we expect our overall tax rate will decline.
In addition after this transaction is completed Eastman will generate free cash flow of approximately $1 billion over the next 2 years.
Conditions for closing include approval by Solutia shareholders and regulatory approvals and we expect the transaction to close sometime midyear of 2012.
Now over on Page 8.
You may recall back at our 2011 Investor Day I showed a slide very similar to this describing our strategic focus for growth.
As we looked at acquiring Solutia it became clear that it would hit each one of these focus areas.
So starting with growing our core businesses Eastman and Solutia have significant overlapping complementary and adjacent end markets in particular the auto and architectural markets.
We also see the combination of technologies in areas such as polymers overlapping business capabilities as potentially driving significant revenue opportunity.
We've also had a bias toward growing in emerging markets.
And back at our Investor Day we told you that our 2010 revenue in emerging markets was over $2 billion.
Including Solutia 2011 revenue for Eastman would have been greater than $3 billion in those markets.
And with the addition of Solutia Eastman will be adding significant manufacturing capacity in Asia over the next couple of years to meet growth.
We are also well positioned to take advantage of a growing middle class buying more premium products.
We've also been focused on sustainable businesses and this transaction expands our current portfolio in areas such as energy efficiency and safety.
Lastly given the strength of our balance sheet we said we would use acquisitions and joint ventures as a means to execute our strategy and this acquisition moves Eastman in the right direction on all key parameters we have defined for our growth strategy.
For those of you who are not that familiar with Solutia we have an overview on Slide 9.
They're a global leader in specialty chemicals and performance materials.
They operate in 3 business segments: Advanced Interlayers Performance Films and Technical Specialties with a market leadership position in each segment.
Their last 12 months revenue was over $2 billion with an EBITDA margin of approximately 25%.
As you can see from the pie chart Solutia is balanced across regions with 14% of last 12 months revenue in China.
Next on Slide 10 you can see both Eastman and Solutia have actively improved their respective portfolios over the past several years.
Solutia exited commodity businesses including nylon and feed ingredients.
They also added to their portfolio more specialty businesses such as Flexsys which is in their Technical Specialties segment.
And they expanded their Saflex product line in the Advanced Interlayers segment.
Eastman exited underperforming product lines in the CASPI segment and also divested our PET business with the sale of our last site completed in January 2011.
We've also added more specialty businesses with the acquisition of Genovique in 2010 and the expansion of our Eastman Tritan copolyester product lines.
With these actions both companies have improved their portfolios have market-leading position in a number of their key products and this leads to superior financial performance.
On Slide 11 you can see the substantial presence of Solutia and Eastman have in Asia Pacific particularly China.
For 2011 Eastman had approximately 23% of revenue in Asia Pacific.
Looking out through 2015 as you can see on the bar chart on the left we expect growth to continue in the Asia Pacific region.
The growth will be in areas such as acetate tow Crystex and EVA and we expect Solutia is well positioned to take advantage of trends such as an increasing middle class which is buying more premium products in the move toward more sustainable products.
We expect the overall growth in Asia Pacific and the investments we are making will lead to revenues well above $3 billion by 2015.
Turning next to Slide 12.
Our continued geographic diversity also remains a source of strength although sales revenue in Asia Pacific increased only slightly.
Adding Solutia to our portfolio will accelerate our growth in Asia Pac and China specifically as I mentioned.
In addition the amount of our revenue in North America declines on a pro forma basis meaningfully below 50%.
And with Solutia we are diversifying our asset base as 11 of their 24 manufacturing sites are outside of North America.
Turning next to Slide 13 to the end markets for Solutia Eastman and on a pro forma basis you see the 3 pie charts there.
Solutia has a significant presence in the auto and architectural markets.
For auto these include glass and tires and OEMs replacement aftermarket glass and replacement tires.
In architectural these include new builds and energy solutions.
Looking at Eastman on a pro forma basis our revenue and transportation increases to 16% from 7% and then building and construction increases to 19% including energy solutions.
We continue to have diverse end markets with no one end market being dominant.
And with the addition of Solutia's market presence we will have a deeper understanding of our most important end markets.
Finally our end market and geographic diversity will continue to be a source of earnings stability we believe.
Slide 14 one my favorite slides more clearly shows that we are a top-tier North American chemical company with the Solutia transaction.
You can see on a pro forma basis where we compare to specialty and diversified chemical companies.
Our combined EBITDA margin of approximately 20% compares very favorably to peers.
And with EBITDA of approximately $1.8 billion we are one of the largest companies in our space.
Now I'll turn it over to Curt.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
On Slide 15 we have an overview of the financing for this transaction.
You can see in the table that the new debt financing will be $3.5 billion and we expect this to be composed of both a low-interest term loan and public debt.
In addition we have available bridge financing with commitments in place from Barclays and Citi.
Eastman equity issued to Solutia shareholders totaled $700 million or about 20% of the overall purchase price.
And we will use cash from Eastman and Solutia balance sheets expected to total $600 million.
A new revolver facility of $750 million will remain undrawn at closing.
At closing the pro forma debt to EBITDA ratio will be approximately 2.8x.
Given the expected strong financial profile of both companies free cash flow over the next 2 years is expected to be approximately $1 billion allowing Eastman to quickly delever.
And given the strength of our cash generation we remain committed to returning cash to stockholders with our strong annual dividend rate of $1.04 per share.
Lastly I reiterate that we remain firmly committed to maintaining our current investment-grade credit rating.
On Slide 16 we give you some detail on our cost tax and revenue synergies.
Starting with cost we have clearly identified cost synergies that approach $100 million.
These include reducing corporate costs which you would expect with 2 public companies.
We also see potential for synergies in the purchase of raw materials and we expect this combination will result in improved manufacturing and supply chain processes.
We expect to achieve the $100 million of cost synergies by the end of 2013 and we expect to update you on our progress as we move forward.
Moving to tax synergies there are a source of value for this transaction.
Solutia has approximately $1.5 billion of net operating loss carryforwards that we can utilize over the next 15 years of which about half can be utilized over the next 3 years on an accelerated basis.
There are also foreign tax credits totaling approximately $150 million that will be utilized over the next 10 years.
And the combination of Solutia's geographical profile and our anticipated tax structure should enable us to reduce our corporate tax rate by a couple of hundred basis points.
On the revenue synergies we view these as upsides but we think they are very real.
A couple of examples of leveraging technology from Eastman and Solutia.
First Solutia has solid position and deep customer connect in the tire market through its Crystex and Santoflex product lines.
One of CASPI's most exciting new growth platforms is the opportunity we see to enable innovation for energy efficiency in tires.
We already have growing sales of hydrocarbon resins that we believe would be accelerated.
More significantly we have been investing in research on novel product development leveraging for -- leveraging our profitable cellulose ester product lines.
We believe that both of these technologies can address significant unmet needs in the tire industry.
Solutia's current position in the tire market should help to accelerate these developments.
Another example is exploding the intersection of Eastman's polymer materials technologies with Solutia's conductive coatings technologies to serve the increasing performance needs of the rapidly expanding touchscreen LCD and the flexible circuits markets.
Complementary business capabilities including leveraging our world-class market development capability and similar business models between CASPI and Specialty Plastics and Solutia's businesses.
And I as already mentioned we have overlap in the auto and architectural markets which deepens our understanding of these markets which we expect will lead to additional opportunities.
Our track record from the numerous successful acquisitions and divestitures we've completed and the knowledge we've gained from these transactions gives us a lot of confidence that we will realize the cost and tax synergies we've listed here and that we'll make good progress on the revenue synergies.
We have a clear path to completion of this transaction as you can see on Slide 17.
The acquisition requires the approval of Solutia stockholders.
We will also be working on receiving the necessary regulatory approvals.
There are also standard and customary closing conditions.
There is not a financing contingency and the termination fee is $102 million.
We expect to close this transaction by midyear 2012.
On Slide 18 you can see this transaction is expected to result in significant earnings per share accretion.
For 2012 we expect EPS of approximately $5 a share.
Included in this expectation is accretion from the Solutia acquisition plus some of the expected cost synergies.
We also expect earnings growth from our organic growth initiatives and the acquisitions we made in 2011.
We are also increasing our 2013 earnings per share guidance to greater than $6 per share.
This includes greater accretion from the Solutia acquisition and additional benefits from our organic growth initiatives.
We also expect additional benefits from cost synergies.
With this acquisition you can see from our earnings expectations we have accelerated our earnings growth.
And now I'll turn it back over to Jim.
Thanks Curt.
So if we walk through the details of the transaction this morning I think you can see that the combination of Eastman and Solutia results in a pretty compelling value.
From a strategic standpoint the complementary and adjacent end markets the combination of technologies and business capabilities and the acceleration of growth in Asia Pacific specifically China all make clear that Solutia is a strong addition to Eastman.
Both the cost and tax synergies make this a compelling financial transaction with revenue synergies as an upside.
We expect to be able to complete this transaction while remaining committed to our investment-grade credit rating.
Transaction has an attractive return on capital.
And lastly the transaction is highly accretive to Eastman's earnings per share in effect accelerating our EPS growth and making it clear that we are on track to deliver continued earnings growth for the next several years.
Now as I turn it back over to Greg I'll just mention I asked Mark Costa to join us this morning.
Many of you know Mark.
He leads our CASPI and Specialty Plastics business also marketing sales innovation and the supply chain.
But the reason -- main reason he's on the call is because Mark led the business due diligence that we did with Solutia as Mark led the financials.
So when we get to the questions probably all 3 of us will be pitching in to answer.
And with that let me turn it back over to Greg.
Thanks very much.
This concludes our prepared remarks this morning.
Operator we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will begin with Jeff Quinn with Solutia.
I just wanted to call just to say hello and to say that here at Solutia we totally agree with Jim's perspective on this transaction.
And it is indeed a transformative transaction and we at Solutia are very excited to be joining a world-class diversified chemicals producer like Eastman.
Not only does the transaction deliver meaningful premium to our shareholders over our recent trading price it enables our investors to benefit over the long term in the combined company due to the stock component in the purchase price.
The Board of Solutia and I unanimously agreed that this transaction was in the best interest of our shareholders but also was in the best interest of the other stakeholders.
Our employees our customers our suppliers and all the communities around the world where we have operations.
The combined company is going to have the financial strength diversified and complementary mix of premium products a geographic footprint to accelerate growth and to take advantage of the powerful global trends that are driving demand for our products including rapid growth in emerging markets and improving living standards across the globe and increased urbanization.
When evaluating this transaction it was very important to me and the board that any transaction would see as being paired with a company that has a close strategic and financial fit as well as a fit with the values and culture that we have worked so hard to instill here at Solutia over the last 8 years.
With Eastman's complementary operations and the vision of Jim and his team our Advanced Interlayers Performance Films and Technical Specialties businesses are poised to continue to build on the success we've achieved over the last few years.
Solutia and Eastman are highly complementary to one another not only in terms of our businesses geographic presence and products but also in terms of what we stand for.
Both companies are known for innovation investment in high-growth markets worldwide and the highest level of customer support and service.
We also share a deep and abiding commitment to operational excellence developing products that respond directly to market demand and delivering value to our stakeholders.
So Jim for all of us here at Solutia I just want to say that we are terribly pleased with the transaction and look forward to working with you and your team to continue to create value for our shareholders and we're very excited about what lies ahead and look forward to the future.
Thanks Jeff and I'll return the compliment.
It's been a pleasure to work with you and your team.
I think you did a great job for your shareholders and all the rest to your stakeholders.
So my only word of advice is try and get some sleep this weekend okay? And now we'll move to a question from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jim as you know a lot of value at Solutia is in their Crystex business a business that they keep under close scrutiny given its very high margins very high market share.
Can you go through the due diligence you've done on Cyrstex to get comfort that business is sustainable both in terms of the margins and its competitive technology differentiation? Yes we'll give some cursory comments.
Again I mean we're probably 6 months away from the close.
But I want to make a general comment then I'm going to get Mark to add some color as well.
Let me just tell you overall I was pleased with the way we work together with the Solutia team in terms of being able to work quickly but also very diligently and to get all our questions answered not just on this particular business but financial tax markets et cetera.
So I feel very good about how we made our decision what we were able to factor in.
But Mark do you want to comment more specifically on Crystex? Sure.
Dave it's a great question.
And certainly it's one of the products we like best in the portfolio of Solutia.
As you pointed out it is a nice high-margin business.
We like the industry structure there which is reinforced by their leadership position and the quality of their products.
So it's not just their positioning capacity and cost relative to the small competitors that their product is a much higher performing product and delivering value and efficiency in the tire operation.
It gives them a nice sustainable position in the cost in the final tire being less than 1% and the importance of performance gives them a very sustainable position where you'd be very hesitant to switch to other products.
We also like that there's no significant capacity on the horizon that would threaten the margins in that business.
Certainly not at the capability that Solutia has.
It's very similar also to the kind of positions we have in CASPI.
When you look at our cellulose esters and coatings or our texanol and architectural paint it's a very very similar kind of cost and performance position that we have.
It's the kind of business we understand quite well and know how to run.
And it's the kind of the product portfolio we like best inside Eastman.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Jim can you comment on whether this transaction began at auction or was it a singular negotiation? Well I think that all that kind of detail all the good stuff people like to read at night after they go home that's all going to come out in the proxy.
I'll just say from our side we entered into a very let's say exhaustive process sometime last summer working with our board about our strategy roadmap and decided that we would really look at the inorganic opportunities that are out there.
And I can tell you that Solutia was #1 then and has stayed #1 through that whole process.
I mean we looked at quite a few different possibilities for ourselves.
And this was -- this rose to the top.
I'll also say just on a personal note I've been here since 1999.
This is the best thing I've seen in a major way for Eastman to take a step forward on their growth.
So we had a very thorough process.
They rose to the top.
We entered into discussions and you see the result of that today.
Research Division</strong> And Jim last thing just on the fourth cracker down in Longview what's your current thinking on that cracker going forward? Yes I'm glad you raised that because I was hoping we'd get a chance to talk about -- a little bit about the olefin picture.
And I may get Mark to comment again as well because CASPI is affected by our cracking spreads and what we're doing there as well as he's got the supply chain.
But in general I think things are looking up.
Just as a recap we restarted a cracker I guess that was like early '10 right and we think the economics of that was probably a good $30 million of EBIT.
It's one way to think about it.
We took a couple other smaller actions adding a furnace to one of those crackers and another little step that will probably kick in about $20 million of EBIT when I look at what '13 over '12 because I guess that will come on into '12.
And then we've been talking about that we want to restart that fourth cracker.
What's rising to the top is the idea of an olefins conversion unit and we are in discussions now with the potential partners on that unit.
And it's the kind of thing that would probably kick in in 2014 such that we would get earnings growth say a little '14 over '13 but then '15 over '14.
And that olefin conversion unit our piece of the economics of that -- and as I'm talking I'm realizing I'm saying everything Mark probably would have said.
But our piece of that is going to be greater than the last cracker that we started up.
In other words the EBIT should be quite good on that unit as well.
So there'll be more coming on that.
Then maybe a better alternative than just restarting that fourth cracker.
Is that fair? And maybe while around if I could just get Mark to comment what we're seeing on the propane propylene spreads as well.
Sure.
I mean I think that we certainly feel very good about the long-term spreads in olefins versus the propane ethane.
In the short term we're also feeling better in the last couple of weeks relative to where we've been in the fourth quarter as I'm sure you've seen Exxon is going out with a nomination the $0.20 increase in propylene.
And so there's a lot of discussion out there in the marketplace around how propylene prices may increase significantly here as we go into February and March and certainly that would be an attractive improvement for spreads for us given our position in the -- with our crackers and some upside to earnings.
Yes just to be a fair those nominations usually you end up with some percent of that so these are just early indications.
But that's probably a little better than we felt 3 months ago when we were talking about bottoming in the fourth and first quarter maybe starting up in the second maybe we'll start up a little sooner than that.
And now we will move to Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm looking at your Slide 18 and it looks as if Eastman on its own might have grown something like -- your expectation for 2012 might have been for something like 3% to 4% growth in earnings and EPS.
But with Solutia now obviously you're expecting double-digit type of growth.
Is that predicated on Solutia coming into the portfolio on July 1? If the deal is delayed how do you think about the 2012 earnings and Solutia's impact on that? Yes expectation is right around midyear Frank.
So and by the way the slide is just representative so don't get your ruler out and measure that little slide which you've probably already done so it's too late.
But I guess what I'm saying is I mean we thought we would have some growth in our earnings this year whether we did an acquisition or not.
So that was just the straight up running the core businesses.
We knew we were going to use cash use our balance sheet so either buying back stock doing small acquisitions.
So there was going to be growth on top of that and that's the guidance we would have given.
Let's just say we have this beautiful opportunity to add a property like Solutia to our portfolio.
And if it happens in midyear we'll get about half the year of those earnings.
We'll have captured some of the synergies right up front.
Obviously this is kind of excluding the onetime cost of getting the deal done et cetera.
So kind of factor in a midyear and then you can head for that $5.
LLC Research Division</strong> I see okay.
Because it was interesting looking at the -- your release last night and I saw the pace of share buyback was materially lower in the fourth quarter.
And obviously I realized why this morning.
And then I guess lastly on the revenue synergy side I know Curt you talked a little bit about the tire market and the touchscreen market.
I was wondering if you could give us a preliminary look in terms of sizes of revenue synergies out there either in macro or at least rank order where you think the best overlap is and where you can really drive top line growth with Solutia now part of the portfolio.
And Frank let me take your questions.
I want Curt to just comment just briefly on the kind of some of the cost synergies and the work we went through to identify that.
Then I'm really going to turn your revenue synergy question to Mark because a lot of the synergies are going to be with businesses that he runs today.
But Curt just in general.
So again Jim mentioned the level of diligence we were able to complete.
Let me just add first on the tax side we feel very good about the tax benefits that come with this transaction both in the next several years and longer term.
On the cost synergies we've been looking through different components and different buckets.
Obviously we're trying to be very mindful to make sure both businesses are still operating strong.
We made some early assessments.
We feel comfortable with the target that we've established.
And as we get further into understanding the infrastructure and the footprint we may adjust that number.
But right now we feel good about the $100 million.
Yes and just on the revenue synergies I don't feel like we had to factor a lot of that into our valuation models.
But I want Mark just to talk about what the potential could be.
Sir I'm just going to give 2 examples.
The first one is on the tires as you asked Frank.
With tires we certainly see some significant opportunities today.
We already have resin sales in tires.
As the regulations are driving for more fuel efficiency in tires and they're looking to also of course maintain wear and traction at the same time which is what they call the magic triangle you're always trying to formulate that tire just like you are formulating a coating to get optimal performance in that magic triangle.
It turns out that some of our hydrocarbon resins and even more significantly some of our cellulose ester products can perform some pretty interesting improvements in optimizing those performance parameters that have us quite excited.
And as I said we're already seeing some resin sales.
So I think that there's at least $100 million of upside around that opportunity for us.
It's still a bit early so I dont want to get into specifics.
And those are relatively high-margin products.
So it's a meaningful opportunity for us and we certainly have a deep respect for the quality of relationships that Solutia has with tire companies and their application development capability and believe they'll bring a lot to our efforts in this area in improving our probability of success and accelerating it as well.
I think the other place where we see significant opportunity Frank is in the combination of Specialty Plastics and our capabilities there and Solutia's coatings capability and performance films.
There's a lot of opportunity there around combining those 2 technologies.
Rarely do you get the opportunity to work both on the -- when you have control of both the coatings and the substrate.
Today they're limited by commodity PET as a substrate.
When you look at the challenges you have in improving performance it's usually something around heat resistance clarity in the optical properties chemical resistance and toughness that you're trying to improve in the substrate and the coating.
When you take our copolyesters and Tritan and our unique world capability to do modification of those substrates combined with our coating capability it opens up a lot of innovation in conductive films and flexible circuits that we're pretty excited about.
And Frank before we go to next question Frank had raised the slowing down on our stock buyback.
I was just going ask Curt.
We just couldn't help ourselves we had to go back out of curiosity and see what the average price we had paid for the stock we'd bought back over the last.
So if you look at last 2 years 2010 and 2011 we bought $600 million in shares or roughly 15 million shares at an average price of $40 a share.
We'll now move to Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could elaborate on how exactly you arrived at the valuation coming down to 9x trailing EBITDA.
What metrics did you tend to focus on and what the approach was there? And then related to that how did you arrive at the cash and equity split? Not sure what level of conversations you may have had with the rating agencies but perhaps you could help us understand how that was apportioned.
Okay sure.
On the first part the valuation we didn't reinvent the wheel.
The way we approached it was the way everyone does basically on a number of fronts.
I'd say we're mainly driven by thinking of cash flow so you have all your discounted cash flow analysis and you really work from there.
And of course you're forced to look at other multiples of transactions you're forced to look at how things are trading in the marketplace.
And as you know both boards will have or do have fairness opinions from their banks.
So the valuation is going to be a complicated process as that looks at a number of things.
Those of you know me know I always start from my financial background.
So if I could really dumb it down it had to be a good deal.
And I think putting the 2 companies together created value in a way that made us the logical buyer.
But I would say most of my thinking was strictly driven off the cash flows and what we thought we could do with these businesses.
In terms of the -- and by the way so the multiple you say is of course before the synergies and before we look at those tax benefits.
On the cash versus stock obviously a negotiated item.
I think Jeff did very well for his shareholders.
I think they got a great deal nice premium.
I think that we from our side very protective of our investment-grade rating.
We think by being investment grade we maintain our flexibility to pursue all the growth alternatives that we see in front of us.
And remember we were pretty content with the portfolio of organic opportunities we have.
This was just an extraordinary chance for us to take advantage of inorganic opportunity.
The rating agencies I don't want to preempt their story I think they'll be out later today but we think we have a very strong credit profile and hopefully you don't have long to wait to hear what they think.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then following closure at the deal Jim can you comment on what the future of the portfolio may look like? It's not obvious to me that you would have any subsequent divestitures or peel-offs either for antitrust or strategic reasons.
But how do you think the combination affects your future deployment capital? That's a good question and I -- just to pick up on that I really don't think there's much overlap at all that would give rise during the HSR issues or antitrust issues.
We like their portfolio.
They got some very strong businesses.
I think it's premature to kind of walk through each one.
I think the places where the Solutia management today realizes they need to do some work and maybe adjust their game plan we agree with them.
And so we'll be watching what they do over the next several months.
Remember they're still running this company until the middle of the year.
But net-net we like their portfolio of businesses.
And when you hear us Eastman execs stand up and talk about strong core businesses we're just going to have more strong core businesses to talk about.
Now moving to Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the utilization of the tax assets that Solutia has is there anything unique about Eastman that allows you to use them in a way that someone else couldn't use them? Jeff this is Curt.
I think it's fair to say that our tax positions are very complementary.
If you think about Eastman as a U.S.
multinational we have a fairly large U.S.
taxable income and that enables us to utilize the results of the NOLs.
That would be harder to say for someone that is not a strategic U.S.
chemical company like Eastman.
Or a private equity player.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And what about the entity structure can you just elaborate a tiny bit on that as to how that would give you extra tax synergies? So what that would entail is a couple things.
And again there's still a lot of work to do between now and closing to finalize that.
But part of it is simply just their foreign income versus our foreign income and just the benefits and attributes that provides.
And then just when you take 2 companies like this you have the ability to look at your overall tax structure do some effective tax planning and they have an impact on your overall effective tax rate.
So we could be coming between 30% and 31% on an overall combined basis which will be very attractive for us.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of your core operations can you give me an idea of what the sequential volume change was in CASPI and PCI and Specialty Plastics? Over what period are you thinking Jeff? Research Division</strong> From the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
Well If I could just in general I think we've got some tables in there.
But in general third to fourth was mainly the typical seasonal downturn with -- and then add on top of it more destocking than we've seen in probably 3 of the 4 businesses right? So fibers is almost -- there's nothing to think about or talk about there just once again excellent performance.
The other 3 businesses they each had their own story.
Specialty Plastics probably the biggest story in terms of destocking and how their business came off.
I think maybe what I'll do since I got the guy who has CASPI and SPBO in the room maybe I'll let Mark just comment on third to fourth.
And then maybe also a look forward at what you see coming back in the first quarter.
Sure.
Jeff on Specialty Plastics as Jim mentioned I would really characterize it more as a first half versus second half story where we saw a pretty material drop in demand in the second half.
I would note that that drop in demand was in line with what we're seeing in all the other sort of comparative polymer industries.
So if you go to CMAI or some other source and look at demand drops in polycarbonate PBC and some other polymers there you'll see a pretty significant drop too and it's mostly what we can tell is the slowdown in the economy and the typical pull with inventory correction you get in the polymers industry.
There's no question that on a modest basis we probably lost a little bit of share there as we've increased prices pretty substantially through the year to cover PX.
But I would note that I feel very good about the business our ability to maintain margins and value propositions that have stuck with our customers gives me good confidence this year.
We've already seen a good recovery in orders in January for Specialty Plastics so we feel like we're back on track there.
In CASPI I'd characterize it more as your typical seasonal adjustments of volumes.
I would say that it also was more of a second half story where some of our high-margin products like cellulose esters saw a drop in demand both third and fourth quarter.
What was unique in the fourth quarter wasn't so much a drop in revenue from third to fourth it was a correction in production rates and inventory management that led to unabsorbed fixed costs.
The spreads in both businesses held up quite well and I'm feeling good about them in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess lastly for Curt.
In the $100 million synergies that you've identified in ballpark terms what would it cost you to achieve those? When we look at integration costs we're talking about probably an equivalent amount $100 million over that same time period 18 months.
And now we move to next question and that will come from Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Currently are there any synergies in terms of raw material? Are you -- are both Solutia and Eastman buying similar raw materials? Yes we are.
And again just so I don't do all the talking Mark you've got supply chain.
I think we both know the answer because this is one we like.
So I'm going to give the good one to Mark.
Go ahead.
So we certainly see quite a bit of overlap in some opportunities there.
So if you look at Solutia's top 10 raw material purchases we either make or buy 8 of those top 10 raw materials.
So there's quite a bit of overlap that we see either in leveraging production assets we have or improving our combined buy and some different kinds of swaps we might be able to pursue to optimize our cost position.
So we think it's a good opportunity area.
I think we've been relatively conservative so far in the value what we think we can get from there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in terms of customer overlap it sounds like there is a fair amount.
Could you give us a sense of percent of businesses or revenues that you guys overlap? Yes we probably don't want to do that at this stage.
I mean what we thought was perhaps more useful was just to give you some examples.
And so that's what Mark did earlier when he was talking about for example the tire customers or when you get into film.
So let us beg off on that for a little bit and we'll be able to talk about that more in the quarters to come.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just finally in Specialty Plastics in the fourth quarter I believe there was some planned maintenance.
How much did that hurt earnings? That was about a $5 million hit in the earnings in the fourth quarter.
We'll now move to the next question and that will come from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> In Specialty Plastics you had certain decline in volumes in 4Q.
Can you just talk about that and what kind of ramp up do you see in 2012? Yes and again I'm going to let Mark answer but let me just say we did -- there was some lower margin business that we were walking away from so you probably do need to hear a little more color to get the understanding of really what's going on in the business.
One of the things I'm most proud of is Tritan seems to be staying very strong because that's one of the places we're adding capacity so we feel pretty good about that.
But Mark do you want to throw some more color on that? Sure.
I mean it's a mixed story PJ.
There is part of it which is as Jim mentioned where we continue to see very good and continuous growth.
So Tritan grew well over 20% year-over-year from '10 to '11 and we're continuing to see that growth into '12 as we just completed mechanically the second 30 000-ton expansion for Tritan in January.
So we're feeling very good about that part.
The second part I'd say is the displays industry as you can probably see from a lot of other companies out there went through a pretty rough patch in the second half of last year of severe destocking and we saw the similar kind of significant drop in orders for displays.
And we expect that to continue to be soft as that industry is still going through inventory correction in the first half of this year.
But we expect a pretty strong recovery in that market.
Overall we think displays is going to continue to have very solid strong sort of 20-plus-percent growth in the downstream market that will make that business attractive.
And then on the copolyesters the core part of the business that one is the one where we had more of the volume drop than Tritan of course.
And that was just your typical inventory correction as I mentioned earlier that the whole polymer industry saw.
And I do think we've seen good recovery across all markets in January as people are starting to come back and the market recovered from that destocking.
Research Division</strong> On the merger when you look at revenue synergies is it fair to say that the chemistry overlap between the 2 companies is between Solutia's Performance Films business and your CASPI business? Okay more of the Specialty Plastics and more of the polymer chemistry in general.
I don't know Mark do you want to add anything to that? I think that's right.
I think we see a good connect in their polymer businesses and Specialty Plastics.
I would say the CASPI connect is more with the rubber additives business and where we see the connection there.
Research Division</strong> And Jim one last question on your Slide 14.
You haven the pro forma company mapped out fine in terms of EBITDA.
So when you look at the future sort of longer term what do you see? And do you see that you will digest this acquisition in the next couple of years and then try to continue to move to the left? I think we've got -- we're thinking in terms of an 18-month plan.
I think again you're going to see a pretty strong credit profile.
So while pay down of debt is going to be one of the top priorities for cash I don't think we have to go completely silent.
I mean obviously in the next 12 months or so after we close on the transaction we're going to be very focused on doing this integration right and capturing at least what we promised.
But I think we will be able to lift our heads up continue pursuing the organic opportunities we got and there'll be a time at which we get more active again inorganically.
And honestly if I had to choose between the directions yes I'd rather go left than right.
But I want to tell you something.
This isn't so much an ego-driven culture that well we've just got to be bigger.
We're really about creating shareholder value.
What I feel the best about when I look out over the next few years is how we're kind of increasing greatly increasing I would say the odds of year-over-year earnings growth for multiple years.
So we had earnings growth '10 and over '09 '11 over '10.
Now I'm seeing a pretty clear path to '12 over '11.
I think we've just attacked on a cushion there.
And then '13 over '12 for sure as I look at getting the synergies in.
And '14 over '13 the same story.
So you don't have to hit the ball out of the park every time you just need to have that consistent track record of growing your earnings at this kind of rate.
And we're going to look pretty darn good.
So that's more the game plan it's value creation and driving your earnings per share.
And now we'll move to a question from Harry Mateer with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Three questions for you.
I guess first on the rating side it sounds like you ran this by the agencies ahead of time.
But just to put a finer point on it are you comfortable running the business at low BBB or do you expect to retain your existing mid BBB ratings? So again I'm not going to steal the thunder from the agencies.
They do their own releases do their own analysis.
I'm telling you we feel like we have a very strong credit profile.
I'd be comfortable with either of those ratings.
I mean they're both investment grade.
We like every much where we are and I think we have maximum flexibility where we are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give us a sense for the anticipated mix of loans and bonds for the new debt financing? It's not final yet but Curt why dont you tell him what we're thinking.
Yes we're working through aspects and we'll obviously see what the market does over the coming years.
But we were looking at a mix of 5 10 and 30 years.
And then what's nice about the current market is the after tax rate on that debt is probably going to be closer to 3%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the term loan any sense for what the tenure of that is going to be? The term loan is a 5-year term loan with accelerating payments on the back end.
But with the free cash flow profile you see here you can see us paying that probably on a more accelerated pace.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay and then last just in terms of the Solutia debt I know those bonds have some equity claw language.
Can you share your expectations for how you're going to deal with that? Not yet that's still to be discussed.
And there'll be the appropriate time to say something on that.
And just to be clear maybe on the term loan that's going to be about $1 billion of the debt mix.
And now moving to a question from Andrew Feinman with Iridian Asset Management.
Well first of all I just wanted to say that Jim you told us that when you spend some money it's going to be something where right out of the box your owners are going to like it and it's going to make your stock go up.
And sure enough the stocks have 4 points pre-market so thank you for living up to your commitment.
So how many shares of Solutia are there? I'm just trying to figure out how many shares of Eastman there will be created.
I think it's about 15 million shares of Eastman because it's what 124 million? About 124 million shares will be on the Solutia side and we'll be issuing about 15 million which like I mentioned is almost equivalent to the 15 million we bought back over the last 2 years.
And we'll now take a question from Paul Leming with Ticonderoga.
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious whether or not you could highlight what you believe are some of the key end-market growth drivers that acquiring Solutia will really give you a greater exposure to you.
You've talked about tires.
Beyond tires what are the other key markets end markets that you really see as strong growth propositions for Solutia? Sure.
Great question and certainly the automotive tire part is part of the story but I wouldn't leave it there.
The architectural market we see is very attractive and especially at this time of the cycle in the architectural we're buying in at a good position in the demand trends for architectural.
But they -- Solutia has some great products bringing energy efficiency and safety and aesthetic performance in the architectural market and we see that as quite exciting.
I'd also say that applies to the automotive window market as well and some of the things we're doing in Performance Films for the same set of drivers.
So as you see a world becoming much more conscious about energy efficiency looking to upgrade the quality of products that they have in aesthetics and performance they're in a great spot to leverage both those trends of architectural and automotive and performance films and Saflex.
And then we see the electronic space which is certainly very high growth and an attractive part of our Specialty Plastics business leveraging that same set of trends.
And what they have emerging in performance films creates a whole new market space that while it's still relatively small at Solutia I think it has tremendous upside growth to it for both companies especially as we bring a very unique capability together because we'll be the only player in the industry that has both the ability to modify substrates as well as coatings at the same time so we'll be very uniquely positioned.
And that question will come from Greg Goodnight with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like to me after the Sterling acquisition you guys are trying to piece together the old Monsanto chemical.
You wouldn't comment on that? A couple of questions for you.
You mentioned about half of the NOLs being accessible in 3 years.
Could you comment on what you think your eventual ability to capture the rest of the NOLs or the domiciled where you will have access to them? Yes.
The NOLs as you know when you have NOLs you inherit certain limitations as well as it has to complement your own.
But right now we feel we'll get half in the next 3 years and we'll get all of it over the next 10 to 12 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
It may be a bit early to answer this question.
Could you comment on your access to the historic patent state of Solutia and Monsanto? And have you ascribed any value to that? You think you can ring some value out of the intellectual property that this thing brings to the party? I guess all I want to say now because as you might imagine valuation is going to be a topic very quickly here speak around it a little bit.
But let me just say we were able to do the diligence we needed to do look at the things we needed to look at in order to reach what we thought was an appropriate value.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And speaking of value if you add the NOLs and the synergies and the like you're talking multiples more in the -- potential multiples more in the 6 to 7 range which seems very attractive.
Do you think that's a reasonable analysis? I think the things you mentioned do have value and I think it's -- again let me just say I think it's quite attractive for our shareholders but I also realize that the folks on the other side of the table got a very good deal.
I think they got a nice premium and I think they continue to get some upside as they have a piece of our stock.
So good deal all around.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
My thinking is in knowing both your companies I worked for Solutia for a long time and I would comment that the cultures are extremely similar and it's very striking in that.
I think the Solutia folks employees certainly ought to be very happy with this.
To me it goes beyond a friendly takeover and the sort of approach as a marriage.
What do you think about the 2 cultures? I appreciate that.
We agree with you completely.
I can tell you that the -- everyone we've met at Solutia were truly professional and it felt like a good fit from day one.
So I can tell you I'm just so pleased that we were able to get together.
Okay thanks again for joining us this morning.
A web replay will be available on January 30.
Have a great day.
And with that that will conclude your conference for today.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company first quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on the Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thank you Jenny and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Jim Rogers Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Senior Vice President and CFO; Ron Lindsay Executive Vice President PCI Fibers; and Fernando Subijana Manager Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover 2 items.
First during this call you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations for full year 2012 and 2013 as well as the acquisition of Solutia.
Actual results could differ materially from our plans and expectations.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's first quarter 2012 financial results news release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-K filed for full year 2011 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for first quarter 2012.
Second certain Eastman financial measures referenced in this presentation are non-GAAP financial measures such as earnings per share and operating earnings that exclude transaction and financing costs related to the pending acquisition of Solutia and another postretirement plan gain.
Also referenced are cash from operations excluding capital expenditures and dividend.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the transaction and financing cost related to the pending acquisition of Solutia and other postretirement plan gain are available on our first quarter financial results news release and the tables accompanying the news release available at www.investors.eastman.com Lastly we have posted slides that accompany our remarks for this morning's call on our website again at www.investors.eastman.com and they're located in the Presentations and Events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
And you'd hopefully noticed Greg mentioned that Ron Lindsay is on the call with us this morning.
Ron is one of 2 EVPs here along with Mark Costa.
Ron has Fibers and PCI and I imagine many of you have met Ron and I'm pleased to have him on the call.
Just to show that I'm a very generous CEO he has a bit of good news and rather than me saying it I'm going to let Ron say it because it was his team that worked on it.
Plus I'm guessing there may just be 1 or 2 questions on cracker spreads et cetera so Ron's probably the right man to have with us here on the call.
As I normally do I'll start with an update on our most recent outlook statements.
Back in January we said we expected first quarter 2012 earnings per share to be between $1.05 and $1.15.
This guidance was given prior to the implementation of a pension accounting change we announced in March and Curt will have more on that in his remarks.
With the pension accounting change we reported first quarter EPS of $1.22 which is on a comparable basis.
It's near the top of our range.
We also said that we expect to make progress this year on a number of organic growth initiatives and you will hear this morning that we have completed several capacity expansions recently and our Perennial Wood product is on the shelves in 50 Lowe's stores.
In addition we said we expected to close the Solutia acquisition by midyear 2012 and we remain on track to do just that.
And we guided full year 2012 EPS to be approximately $5 and that the pension accounting change would add approximately $0.30 per share so we are confirming our full year EPS guidance and I'll talk more about that in a few minutes.
Moving to Slide 4.
As I mentioned last night we reported EPS of $1.22.
Revenue increased 4% primarily reflecting higher selling prices.
Operating earnings declined year-over-year in each of the segments except Fibers and we increased our spending in Other as we continue to fund organic growth initiatives such as Perennial Wood.
Sequentially operating earnings increased by almost $100 million reflecting a nice bounce back from the challenging fourth quarter business environment and seasonally stronger sales volume which increased 8% sequentially.
Now to the segments starting with CASPI on Slide 5.
CASPI began 2012 with a strong quarter.
Operating earnings were $98 million down somewhat from first quarter '11 as there were some pre-buying in the polymers product lines in the year ago quarter but up about $40 million from the fourth quarter helped by seasonally higher sales volume which increased 12% sequentially.
Looking at our expectations for full year 2012 all of CASPI's main product lines are operating at high levels.
They're also benefiting from the Regalite hydrocarbon resin expansion completed during fourth quarter 2011.
This facility located in the Netherlands has been expanded 3x since 2006 effectively doubling the capacity and after each capacity expansion has been sold out and we are sold out once again.
In addition we have recently completed a hydrocarbon resins debottlenecking project at our Jefferson facility in Pennsylvania and we continue to pursue opportunities to increase our hydrocarbon resin capacity outside the U.S.
Full year 2012 CASPI operating earnings are expected to be approximately $390 million which would be the fourth consecutive year of record earnings.
Speaking of record earnings Fibers is up next on Slide 6.
First quarter operating earnings were a quarterly record at $101 million helped by higher selling prices and a favorable shift in product mix.
Looking at full year 2012 we expect another record year.
Acetate tow sales globally and particularly in Asia Pacific remain strong.
We did have some volume in Asia pulled forward from second quarter into this first quarter and therefore sequentially volume may decline but we expect volume for the full year to show growth.
In our acetate yarn product line we are seeing some weakness particularly for the textile market in Asia-Pacific and Europe.
Taking these factors into consideration we expect full year 2012 operating earnings to be approximately $380 million.
This would be the ninth consecutive year of record earnings which is indicative of the strength and consistency of earnings in the Fiber segment.
Finally our acetate tow joint venture manufacturing facility with China National Tobacco Corporation remains on schedule to come online mid-2013.
More solid results are on Slide 7 with PCI.
Operating earnings were $77 million in the first quarter down from a very strong first quarter 2011.
The decline was primarily in Asia-Pacific as growth in the region has slowed negatively impacting margins.
In addition we have solid results in North America reflecting continued strong earnings from our plasticizers product lines as well as the benefit from producing versus purchasing olefins offset by a decline in Europe due to weakened market demand.
Despite the challenges PCI's operating margin was above 10% and our operating earnings increased $28 million sequentially.
Looking at the full year we expect slower growth in the Asia -- Asian building and construction market to continue for the balance of the year particularly for commodity products such as oxo alcohols.
However PCI also has a number of tailwinds including strong results from the plasticizers product lines which we expect will be about 1/3 of operating earnings for PCI in 2012 with above segment average operating margins.
This level of performance is a result of growing demand and many of the actions we have taken such as the positive impact of the Sterling acquisition including the first phase of the startup of plasticizer assets producing primarily Eastman 168 non-phthalate plasticizers; as well as the benefit of the acquired acetic acid business; the acquisition of Scandiflex a non-phthalate plasticizer producer located in Brazil; and the benefit from the 2-EH expansion completed earlier this month which increased our capacity by 37 000 met tons or about 15% significantly integrating our plasticizer production.
Lastly we also expect the benefit of producing versus purchasing olefins for the year to be a tailwind and PCI gets about 60% of this benefit.
Taking all these factors together we expect full year 2012 operating earnings for PCI will be approximately $325 million which would be a record year for them slightly higher than 2011.
And now I'll let Ron share the good news that I mentioned earlier.
Ron? Thank you Jim.
On Slide 8 is an update on our thinking about options to further leverage Eastman's exposure to the propane propylene spread.
Back in December 2010 when we restarted our third olefin cracking unit that had been idled we were a little ahead of the market in recognizing that the cost position of our crackers had improved dramatically with the shale gas boom and restarting that cracker was a winner on day 1.
In the middle of 2011 as we were considering all of our options we said we are going forward with a number of incremental debottlenecks at our Longview facility and we expect those to come online in 2012 and 2013.
In January this year we said we were considering an olefins conversion unit or OCU in Longview.
The OCU investment has a very strong return profile well above the cost of capital and would allow us to take advantage of the attractive propylene market in the U.S.
But we've continued to explore all of our options and have identified another attractive alternative a propylene purchase agreement with a third party that will allow us to participate in their planned propane dehydrogenation unit with cost base pricing and capital recovery spread out over the term of the agreement.
And while the OCU option remains a strong alternative for us we are far enough along that we've signed a contract for our portion of the capacity from the planned PDH unit.
This agreement will give us similar propylene economics to the OCU and preserves our capital for other uses.
The project owner is working on finalizing agreements with enough customers to proceed with the PDH unit.
And assuming they're successful we would expect an announcement to be likely in the next few weeks.
I'll also be speaking at an investor conference in the second half of May.
At that time I'll be able to update investors on where things stand.
Jim back to you.
Thanks Ron.
Nice job by Ron and his team.
So I'll continue on Slide 9 Specialty Plastics which as expected improved substantially from the fourth quarter.
Sequentially earnings increased by $16 million as raw material and energy cost declined and volume increased to 9%.
Year-over-year operating earnings declined as a combination of lower volumes lower capacity utilization and higher raw material and energy costs were partially offset by higher selling prices.
Looking at the full year Specialty Plastics will begin to benefit from a number of capacity additions including a second Tritan copolyester resin line which came online during the first quarter and the expansion of our cellulose triacetate or CTA capacity used in the LCD market expected online midyear.
The key variable for Specialty Plastics continues to be sales volume and while we have seen it improved from fourth quarter levels it is not yet back to where it was in first half of 2011 due to weakened demand.
Paraxylene recently has been less volatile but remains slightly disadvantaged compared to raw materials for competing products.
Considering all of these factors we expect Specialty Plastics operating earnings to be approximately $130 million which would also be record performance.
So have I mentioned we're expecting record operating earnings for all of our segments in 2012 after record performance in 2011? Seriously developing a track record of consistent year-over-year earnings growth is a top priority for us.
And that's a good segue into our guidance for full year 2012 on Slide 10.
We do expect slow economic growth globally but with the U.S.
remaining solid.
We anticipate that Europe will remain weak but not deteriorate from current levels.
Asia and particularly China is the region with the most uncertainty as the growth rate has been slowing and we are seeing the impact most significantly in PCI's commodity product lines.
Raw material and energy cost are expected to be less volatile for the balance of the year with the benefit from producing versus purchasing olefins expected to be a tailwind in 2012 compared with 2011.
We also expect to continue to benefit from acquisitions we made last year from the Solutia acquisition we expect to close in the middle of this year and from the number of incremental capacity additions we have throughout the company which I've highlighted during the segment reviews.
As a result we expect our full year EPS to be approximately $5.30 which would be an increase of about 10% compared with 2011.
And we expect earnings in the second half to be higher than those in the first due to expected accretion from the acquired Solutia businesses.
But otherwise this year the first half and second year would be similar in earnings.
And lastly we continue to expect 2013 EPS of greater than $6 which again would be solid double-digit earnings growth.
I'll conclude this morning on Slide 11 and you'll see that while I gave Ron one nugget of good news I did save one for myself.
We talked about Perennial Wood at our Investor Day last year and those of you that attended in person may recall the Perennial Wood display which highlighted potential applications such as decking siding and trim indoor flooring windows outdoor furniture.
Since then we've completed our initial production facility in Kingsport.
In February we launched the Perennial Wood brand showcasing the decking product line at the International Builders' Show in Orlando.
Today Perennial Wood decking is on the shelves in over 50 Lowes stores in the Northeast U.S.
For the trade professional Perennial Wood decking is also being distributed through Boston Cedar and their network of specialized independent retailers and we expect the availability of Perennial Wood to expand over time into other regions and other product categories.
Pricing for Perennial Wood decking is comparable to what you would pay for a premium wood plastic composite or PVC decking product.
And I got to say the initial response has been terrific exceeding our expectations.
And I'd remind you we estimate that the addressable market for Perennial Wood is around $2 billion.
And while it is less capital-intensive than most products in our industry it is higher than our average operating margins.
Going forward we will continue to monitor market acceptance for Perennial Wood and we will determine our next steps likely towards the end of 2012.
Of course Perennial Wood is not the only organic growth initiatives that we are working on.
When you look at our spending in Other it is for a number of initiatives that we expect will meaningfully contribute to growth over the next 5 years and then beyond that.
Our Chief Technology Officer Greg Nelson will highlight a few of these growth initiatives as well as our expected earnings impact at an investor conference in early May so you don't have long to wait there.
These projects are consistent with our primary focus which is earnings growth.
And as we make progress on organic growth initiatives capacity expansions and acquisitions such as Solutia we are prudently utilizing capital to deliver growth and high returns building the path to higher earnings brick by brick.
With that I'll turn it over to Curt.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I just have a few slides this morning and I'll begin with our financial highlights on Slide 13.
We generated $19 million of cash from operating activities in the first quarter.
This really starts with first and foremost net earnings remained solid across all of our businesses.
In working capital receivables increased as expected due to higher sales revenue.
Additionally our business and supply chain teams are doing a great job managing inventory quantities which combined with moderated raw material cost as a whole provided operating cash flows of $14 million in the quarter.
We also made a $25 million contribution to our U.S.
defined benefit pension plans and continue to expect the full year contributions will be approximately $100 million.
Looking at free cash flow in the quarter it was a negative $107 million which is a good result in what is typically our weakest quarter for free cash flow generation due to seasonal working capital requirements.
Next on Slide 14 is a review of our pension accounting change.
You may recall we announced this in early March.
We believe the change improves transparency enabling investors to more clearly evaluate our operating performance.
At a high level actuarial gains and losses for the pension and OPEB plans are now recognized in operating results in the year they occur rather than being amortized over future periods as they were previously.
The mark-to-market gains and losses are recognized annually in the fourth quarter and can be found in corporate expense rather than being allocated to the segments.
An interim remeasurement triggered by curtailment settlement or significant plan changes will be recognized as a mark-to-market adjustment in the quarter in which the triggering event occurs.
An example of that is what we recognized in first quarter of 2011 as described in the news release.
The service costs and amortization of prior service credits continue to be allocated to the segments.
Excluding the fourth quarter mark-to-market adjustment we expect this change will result in approximately $0.30 increase to full year 2012 earnings per share and $0.08 of this roughly was recognized in the first quarter this year.
Moving next to an update on our acquisition of Solutia beginning with financing.
In March the term and bridge loans were put in place.
The term loan is $1.2 billion and it will be amortized over 5 years.
The bridge loan is $2.3 billion and it expires one year after the transaction closes.
The rate for both of these is LIBOR plus 150 basis points and this is a great rate and it reflects the solid investment credit rating of Eastman.
We are not expecting to use the bridge loan but rather anticipate issuing public debt over the course of the next few months.
Moving next to Solutia stockholder vote we filed the preliminary proxy and prospectus or S4 with the SEC on March 7.
We filed an amended S4 last Friday on April 20.
The Solutia stockholder vote on the transaction will be scheduled after the S4 is finalized and cleared and has been declared effective by the SEC.
Finally on the regulatory approval front we are making good progress.
The Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period expired in March without comment.
We have received approval from China South Korea and the Ukraine.
And we expect a regulatory approval in the EU to be completed prior to the end of May.
Given everything that we see today we remain on track for a mid-2012 close consistent with our guidance to you back in January.
And of course as we get to closing and beyond we will have more to say about integration cost synergies cash generation and the significant positive impact we expect Solutia will have on our earnings going forward.
I'll conclude this morning on Slide 16 with a few comments about our capital allocation.
We continue to implement a balanced approach across the areas you see on the slide with a focus on funding and earnings growth.
Starting with capital expenditures we have organic growth initiatives throughout the company that we will continue to fund and expect CapEx before Solutia of approximately $400 million for full year 2012.
We expect the incremental expansions we have discussed to contribute to earnings in 2012 and then to result in approximately $300 million of revenue in 2013 with operating margins above the corporate average.
And we have a number of other organic growth initiatives including Perennial Wood which Jim mentioned that we expect will contribute further to earnings growth longer term.
Next on the dividend we raised it twice over the last 1.5 years and of course it continues to be reasonable for investors to expect that as we increase earnings we will also increase the dividend.
Of course I remind you that it's ultimately a board decision.
Regarding equity in 2010 and 2011 we repurchased approximately $600 million of our stock or approximately 15 million shares at an average price of $40 per share.
And we expect to issue approximately 15 million shares for the Solutia acquisition.
Moving next to joint ventures and acquisitions we have been active over the last few years with the largest being the pending Solutia acquisition and these are expected to significantly contribute to our earnings growth over the next several years.
And on joint ventures as Jim mentioned earlier our acetate tow manufacturing joint venture is scheduled to come online mid-2013.
Lastly on debt and pension.
We expect to issue between $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion of new public debt securities for the Solutia acquisition and which is a favorable rate environment.
And on pension as I mentioned earlier we expect to contribute approximately $100 million to the U.S.
defined-benefit plans in the U.S.
in 2012.
And now Ill conclude by reaffirming our expectation to generate approximately $1 billion of free cash flow over the next couple of years and that while the main use for free cash flow will be deleveraging we expect to also meaningfully fund each of the other areas with a priority on generating consistent earnings growth.
With that I'll turn it back over to Greg.
Okay thanks Curt.
Jenny this concludes our prepared remarks.
We are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And so we will go to our first question from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess this is a question for Ron.
There were some discussion about restarting the fourth cracker and then this morning you're talking about investing in a PDH unit.
Does that preclude restarting the fourth cracker? Where do you stand on that decision-making process? Frank let me go back to what was driving a lot of our assessment of our options here.
We buy a substantial amount of propylene still.
Even though we make it we're net short.
We're net long on ethylene and so we've been looking at how to address in particular that position on propylene and effectively fully backwards integrate our propylene derivatives out of Longview.
And so we looked at a variety of options there.
Starting the cracker was certainly one that we've gone through carefully.
It did not meet all of our propylene needs to fully backwards integrate and unlike when we did restart it it was quite a bit more expensive.
It was in a poorer condition needs a lot more work so the capital requirement there was much higher and that really drove us to look at is that really the right approach to proceed.
And that led to these other options being surfaced.
And we believe this one is the best one of the bunch because of the impact it's going to have on us as well as the fact that we can take that capital we would've gone to rebuild something and to get the same position and take that capital elsewhere.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then you expect this PDH unit to be fully constructed by 2015? And am I correct that this project has not been announced yet publicly? You're right on both fronts there.
Frank this is Jim.
We're just a little ahead of the game on this one but we thought it was important.
We know for a few calls now people have been looking at so what's Eastman going to do down there in Texas.
And let me just say this is a good good outcome.
We're getting the economics of the olefin conversion unit close to it and saving our capital.
And as we look at doing acquisitions and the other kind of growth initiatives we've got we've got to do some more smart moves like this where you get the economics but don't spend your capital.
So I just want to make sure people understand how happy we are with this contract.
They still got to sign up a couple more folks.
I don't think you have long to wait.
Right Ron? That's right.
I mean this one looks like this is a good project.
They're being smart.
The people building it are being smart about how they're managing their risk and pretty much locking up the output of this thing.
That makes a lot of sense to me.
So this is a win-win for the guys building it and for us as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well I must say I do admire the way that you keep us sitting on the edge of our seats.
You have Ron giving some news next month.
You've got Greg Nelson giving some news next month so I just can't wait for the next piece of news out of EMN I've got to tell you.
Hey we're trying to look down the road.
You might have noticed we're trying to be a little more long-term focused.
For example on this Perennial Wood if this thing -- if this hits the way we got a shot of it hitting you're not going to feel it in this first thing we built because it's smaller and it's really just to tease the market out.
But when we go to a commercial scale on Perennial it should look very good.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well I was going to ask a different question but why don't we stay with Eastman -- I mean Perennial Wood? You said the initial response has been quite favorable.
Can you give us some color around that any sort of metrics in terms of why you're feeling better about that today than you did perhaps a couple of months ago? Yes and I'm not going to steal Greg's thunder.
I will say the response I mean there's different metrics you get in terms of response to ads response to turning I can't remember what you call it but when people first call in that initial lead turning it into an actual sale.
I mean all those kind of numbers are good.
I guess while I'm here feeling good I want to make sure I caveat it a little bit because this is still pretty early on.
We're still getting the bugs out of a few things in the chain.
But in general the reception we get from people who know what they're talking about like the folks within Lowe's or the folks within Boston Cedar I think this one can be pretty good.
But Greg will talk some more about it when he gets up in front of people in a couple of weeks.
And we'll hear next from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jim just on your coal gasification facility in Kingsport I think you said in the past it was advantaged up until nat gas got low at $2.50 per MMBtu I might be wrong in that but given where gas is is that facility is that still to [ph] change still advantaged given low-priced nat gas in U.S.? Yes it is.
I mean we went back and looked at the history.
We could not find a time when we were not advantaged being on coal here in Kingsport.
And of course there's 2 moving parts.
There's the price of coal and what we pay for it.
Theres the efficiency of how we run our operations.
There's more than 2 moving parts and then there's the price of natural gas.
The other thing I would ask you to remember is you're not necessarily competing with those products.
You're not necessarily competing against other people who are natural-gas-based.
So when we think globally with where we take those products a lot of people are competing where theyre naphtha-based or natural-gas-based in other regions of the world.
But yes we're still pretty pleased with the economics of our gasification facility here in Kingsport.
Research Division</strong> And just on the PDH [indiscernible] you will not be making any capital investment correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Did you consider making one or taking ownership interest in the facility? Well this is Jim again we anticipated the question why not do 2 or 3 things why not restart the cracker why not do the OCU why not take a chunk of this PDH.
We're really trying to think about our long-term strategy how we deploy our cash our resources.
And we don't necessarily just want to be a bigger ethylene producer.
And if we did it wouldn't be with the size crackers that we have in Texas.
So we were more than willing to go ahead with the OCU.
That made a lot of sense.
But this was a very elegant solution in terms of saving our capital and getting what we need.
By the way the economics look different when you're talking about replacing or backing out your propylene purchases versus just being a merchant ethylene or propylene producer.
So we really like where we're ending up.
I hope they go ahead and wrap up their project and get it announced publicly so that we can talk more about it.
Research Division</strong> And Jim lastly can you comment on the propane propylene spread in Q1? And can you quantify the benefit to you guys? Yes.
We did it once last year to kind of lay it out for people.
We said that wasn't the emphasis we wanted people to think about.
We didn't want them just focusing on propane and propylene.
I can tell you it was good again in the first quarter.
Of course the ethylene was what was really good in the first quarter if were showing you everything.
You've got to think more than just the propane/propylene.
It's also how the ethylene did.
Year-over-year it's going to be -- the whole cracker spreads are going to be pretty good for us compared to last year.
I was sitting here thinking as much I don't want to talk about it it's nice to have these spreads nice to have these spreads this year.
The other thing I'll say on it is there's some chatter about whether or not propane is going to come off in the middle of the year maybe go a little long.
And that very well could be.
One of the things I thought about is you're perhaps more likely to hold on to spread if propane is what comes off.
Just propylene going up sometimes the way we move so much propylene through derivatives you don't -- you can't always get the pricing and the derivatives that equates to what the propylene went up.
And we talked about that last year in the second quarter when people were thinking we're going to do better than we did.
So propane coming off you may be more likely to keep some of that spread but as we looked forward in the year and looked at our numbers we just kind of assumed it was steady-state where it is now.
And moving on we have a question from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Jim just a couple of clarifications on the new PDH contract.
On a pro forma basis for that contract does it move your long short position to 0 or exactly 100% integrated? Or would it be more or less than that? And then second am I correct in understanding it's a propane-plus deal rather than a market-minus deal? I'll let Ron answer that.
On the balance -- this will effectively make us balanced on propylene.
So between this contract and what we make we'll be covered for our needs.
And it is a cost-based off propane formula.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Then a couple of questions on CASPI.
I guess I was a little surprised -- maybe I shouldn't be surprised that you've sold out your Regalite capacity so quickly.
It seems like you had 20% every so often and whereas most units take a year or 2 to load this thing is sold out in a quarter or 2.
Can you help us understand why that is the case? And if it keeps happening why you might not just double capacity or get more aggressive on increases there? Yes.
Well thanks for noticing by the way that we have done a good job.
We've got again some wind at our back in this marketplace.
I mean very strong growth if you think about all the personal hygiene adhesives on diapers et cetera in the emerging markets.
It's a pretty strong driver.
Of course we're not the only player in this marketplace.
So other people tend to want to expand their capacity too.
We're being very disciplined in how we approach it.
I can say though that we think there's a great opportunity to do something perhaps a little larger in Asia in this marketplace.
But I don't have anything to talk about or announce yet.
But it would be logical that people would be looking for capacity in Asia and we would be a logical player to do that.
So but we'll just have to put a placeholder there and see what we can make happen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then also on CASPI Jim as I think about it broadly solvents and various specialties that you sell what percentage of CASPI sales would you say goes into architectural coatings? Is that meaningful? And related to that might there have been any benefit related to favorable weather through the spring? Yes that's a good question.
We showed building and construction at about 17% of CASPI sales.
And when we say favorable weather we've got our little North American hats on and so we think about North America had favorable weather.
Of course the way I think I've heard Eastern Europe et cetera had very extreme cold weather.
So it's a global business.
I would guess there was some benefit from that but it's hard to pin down.
Basically CASPI's just firing on all the cylinders.
A little sloppiness in solvents particularly in Asia but in general firing on all cylinders.
And we will hear next from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jim you referred to something in one of your remarks about propylene prices don't really affect your revenue line because you've got to convert that into propylene derivative price hikes.
And then you mentioned also maybe propane gets soft in the summer.
Can you just talk a little bit about what you expect on your propylene derivative pricing and what the usual lag might be in the marketplace between olefin changes and your product price changes? Yes.
If I implied that it didn't have an impact to something that was wrong.
I was just saying it's not a one-for-one relationship.
So propylene can move but a number of our derivatives are considered more specialty and so you don't just jerk those around each week as propylenes -- you get the last spot price on propylene.
That's more what I was saying.
So it's not quite the same as being a merchant seller of propylene.
We take it through other products.
So I wasn't even talking so much about a lag although there would obviously be a lag as you process it further.
I was just meaning we're trying to be more disciplined in our pricing when it comes to our end products priced more off of value where we can.
But without a doubt higher propylene prices aids our pricing.
Now I can also tell you that pricing in general not just in this area but I'd say pricing in general is a little sloppier in the marketplace than it was a year ago.
So I've got Ron sitting next to me and I think he would say the same thing within PCI and CASPI.
Last year the demand was so strong that you pretty much got the price you wanted or you could sell it somewhere else in the world.
And with Asia and Europe being fairly loose right now you don't quite have that pricing power that you had a year ago and that's not so much an Eastman comment as it is a market comment in general.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on your PDH unit obviously you're reluctant to name the counter-party until they talk about it.
But the one PDH unit out there had a few growing pains and so there appears to be some magic to the art of PDH.
Are you concerned at all about start-up date timing and the technology necessary here? Or are you pretty confident it will come on and start providing some help in 2015? Ron? Yes.
We certainly are aware of some of the history here and that was part of our due diligence as we went through this.
I would say that we went in with that cautionary view and got ourselves comfortable that the technology is very viable that some of the -- we understand some of the reasons for prior concerns with another plan out there and feel like those are not things that are going to translate to this project.
So the long short of it is we feel good about it from a technical and operational standpoint as well as obviously the deal.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And one last one if I might it seemed like one benefit of turning your fourth cracker maybe into some sort of metathesis-type unit is you could consume ethylene and while producing ethylene is wonderful for the next 3 or 4 years then maybe you go through the typical down cycle.
Have you ever considered maybe getting a pass-through ethylene price with somebody if they'd be willing to take the other side of that? Or how do you think about your ethylene price and getting it to market from Longview versus if you were down in the Gulf Coast? I'll get Ron to answer this again.
But we do have a contract with Westlake right now which affects the pricing we get for ethylene.
But Ron? That's right.
Certainly as we look ahead we haven't excluded the capability of doing the OCU with this other deal.
So if we judge later that that was attractive something we wanted to do weve still got that option.
So we've kept some optionality there.
But weve got our immediate concern dealt with with the PDH deal that we've got.
Bob I think we size this for people before that we said in OCU or in this case a contract probably gives us slightly more benefit than we got opening up the last cracker we did.
So you put that on an annual basis that's fairly significant.
And we can go to the next question.
And we'll hear next from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You spoke of your earnings in the first half this year being roughly flat with your earnings last year.
What were your earnings last year in the first half? Jeff again I think if you look at our comments I said that first half this year would be roughly equivalent to the second half of this year.
I mean I don't want to beat around the bush.
We're trying to get away from quarterly guidance.
We're trying to get people to think about us longer term.
A lot of the things we're spending money on are projects that have long-term payback like Perennial Wood and microfibers et cetera.
So excuse me for taking your question to make this little point.
But so while we gave some guidance about first half this year to second half next year and a lot of that is just based on the thought that maybe the economy is not going to slow down and so maybe we'll get a little bit of a pickup in the second half maybe fourth quarter won't be the typical down -- such a down quarter for us like it is so many other years.
But again it's pretty early in the year to try and be making these calls.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Will you generate much free cash flow this year? When I look at free cash flow expectations with our operating cash flow we have some working capital programs we're trying to actually implement to actually improve our cash flow that reduce capital expenditure.
On legacy Eastman the way I look at it right now well probably generate in excess of $300 million in free cash flow.
And that's after your dividend.
And that's after CapEx and dividend.
And we will move on to our next question from Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> On CASPI you noted some weakness -- some volume weakness in polymers.
Was that mainly in the auto side or in the packaging side? Just a little bit more color on that would be helpful.
Yes.
When we think polymers I think the weakness we're talking about as compared to last year last year we had price increases going up on April 1.
And so we got some nice buying going on in March as you might imagine last year.
So year-over-year comparison tough comparison for our polymers there.
In general all of CASPI seems to be doing quite well here.
I would say auto if you look specifically to autos where some of our polymers go and CASPI some of the higher-margin stuff goes North America looking pretty good but Asia and Europe in particular are soft.
Longer term again though I mean what do you think more cars being produced 5 years from now or fewer than this year? Research Division</strong> Well I think I can answer that one.
In terms of Fibers obviously price increases because of cost but pulp -- there's some expectation that pulp has sort of hit a bottom here and is likely to go up.
How do you feel about your cost position in Fibers and whether you're going to -- how much you're going to be able to raise price further this year to offset the rise in pulp? Yes.
Just a little bit on the Fibers market.
Much of the marketplace is annual contracts.
And so we buy our Fibers on a fix priced for a year -- buy our pulp on a fixed price for a year.
But we also commit to a price for most of our large customers per year not completely but in general that's the way that market is priced.
So typically you have this big round of annual pricing in the winter and at that time you usually have a good idea what your costs are.
So you try and line those up.
And what's Fibers got -- is this the ninth year of earnings record earnings? So so far we've been doing a pretty good job of lining those up.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just finally on PCI obviously you noted some weakness in Asia-Pacific.
Would you give us a little bit more color? I mean I know 2-EH has been coming down there and certainly you're facing a tough comparison year-over-year.
Is that where you're seeing some of the weakness? Or is it broad-based? Just a little bit more color around -- on APAC for -- and PCI please.
Ron? Yes.
This is Ron.
It is in our oxo alcohols primarily.
And keep in mind we are comparing on a year-over-year basis against a pretty strong market environment in 2011.
So there's some contrast there that's part of the issue.
But there is -- we saw weakening late last year.
There was quite a bit of destocking a good bit of inventory coming in the year over there and looking for a home and then we have not seen the rebound quite as robustly as we had hoped and that is just not an Eastman comment.
I think that's generally being seen across a lot of businesses.
And so that's just turned into a weaker demand environment over there and that's depressed margins.
And we'll hear next from Jeffrey Stafford with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> We've heard commentary from a few other companies that in terms of demand January and February were pretty weak and then March was very strong.
Did your business progress this way through the first quarter? It did but I don't know how much weight to put on that honestly.
That's such a pretty typical pattern in a first quarter for our industry.
So I personally am not going to play that up too much but I know others have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to clarify does the $5.30 EPS estimate does that include Solutia or not? Yes it does.
So if you build up I mean we're basically reaffirming guidance and that's $0.30 from the pension change and about $0.30 from Solutia.
And with no further questions in the queue I'd now like to turn the call back over to the speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks again everyone for joining us this morning.
A web replay and a replay in downloadable MP3 format will be available on our website beginning at 9 AM on Monday.
Have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's call.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Just a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
This call is also being broadcast live on Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over for opening remarks and introductions to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Companies Investor Relations.
Greg please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you Debbie and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Jim Rogers Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Fernando Subijana Manager of Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover 2 items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual results could differ materially from our plans and expectations.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's second quarter 2012 financial results news release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the form 10-K filed for full year 2011 and the form 10-Q to be filed for second quarter 2012.
Second except where otherwise indicated Eastman financial measures referenced in this presentation are non-GAAP financial measures such as earnings per share and operating earnings that exclude Solutia acquisition financing transaction integration costs and the second quarter 2011 gain from the sale of a previously impaired asset.
In addition Solutia earnings are presented as adjusted EBITDA which is defined as net income before interest expense income taxes and depreciation and amortization and certain items that affect comparability and noncash stock compensation expense.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and other associated disclosures including a description of the Solutia acquisition transaction financing integration costs the gain from the sale of a previously impaired asset and Solutia-adjusted EBITDA are available in our second quarter financial results news release and the tables accompanying the news release available on our website eastman.com.
Lastly we have posted slides that accompany our remarks for this morning's presentation on our website in the Presentations and Events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
I'm told we got a record number of people on the phone this morning so thanks for joining us.
That could be because we're doing it on a Tuesday but more likely it's because we have a little bit more to talk about with not only our heritage business but also the Solutia business.
So let me start on Slide 3.
As is my normal practice I'll start by reviewing our key outlook statements.
First when we announced the Solutia acquisition back in January we indicated we expected to close the transaction midyear 2012.
And thanks to a lot of hard work we were able to meet that timeline closing on July 2 and we're very happy to have Solutia as part of Eastman.
Obviously I'll talk more about Solutia second quarter results in a few minutes and then Curt will talk about our progress on integration and synergies in his section.
Next back in April we indicated we expected our full year EPS to be approximately $5.30 in 2012 and we are still on track for that target.
And I'd remind you that this would be 10% earnings growth.
And lastly we indicated we expected to generate $1 billion of free cash over the next 2 years.
And again we're on track to deliver on that commitment.
Given all the portfolio work we've done over the last several years including the acquisition of Solutia we now have a portfolio of businesses that we expect will generate solid consistent earnings growth and cash generation for years to come.
On Slide 4 I'll cover Eastman corporate results.
Sales revenue declined 2% driven mostly by the Specialty Plastics and Fibers segments.
Operating earnings increased with particular strength in the CASPI and PCI segments.
Second quarter EPS was $1.40 slightly below second quarter 2011 EPS.
And I'd remind you that last year's second quarter EPS was a record for any quarter.
And second quarter 2012 is the second-highest EPS we've ever reported.
We also had a higher tax rate year-over-year up about 300 basis points primarily due to the mix of earnings being more domestic.
And overall our heritage Eastman businesses continue to deliver strong results despite an uncertain global economic environment.
Before I give some color on the heritage Eastman segments beginning on Slide 5 with CASPI I'll remind you that second quarter will be the last time we report on this basis.
When we announced the close of the Solutia transaction we also announced the new organizational structure with 5 segments and we will report on that basis beginning with the third quarter.
With that said sales revenue for CASPI was pretty stable year-over-year down 1%.
Operating earnings increased to a quarterly record of $114 million up $10 million year-over-year and $16 million sequentially.
They were able to increase spread primarily in solvents as the decline in raw material and energy costs was only partially offset by lower selling prices which were down 1%.
And we continue to expect the underlying CASPI business to deliver strong results in 2012 albeit with some seasonal decline in demand.
Fibers is next on Slide 6.
Revenue was down 4% year-over-year with a big driver being an unfavorable shift in product mix.
Operating earnings were down slightly year-over-year.
But as you know operating earnings for the fiber segment can move around quarter-to-quarter based on customer buying patterns.
What is more important is the annual earnings growth we've been able to deliver and we continue to expect that fibers will report a very strong year increasing earnings for the ninth year in a row.
PCI is on Slide 7.
Sales revenue was unchanged but there were a few moving parts.
Volume increased 4% and a favorable shift in product mix helped revenue by 2% both due to higher acetyl sales in the U.S.
and the impact of the Sterling and Scandiflex acquisitions both of which closed in third quarter last year.
Selling prices declined primarily in the olefin derivative product lines due to lower raw material and energy cost.
Operating earnings increased both year-over-year and sequentially primarily due to lower raw material and energy cost and the benefit of producing versus purchasing olefin.
We currently expect olefin frac-ing spreads will be favorable in 2012 compared with 2011 due to both the continued benefit of propane to propylene spread and improvement in ethylene spreads.
These spreads are expected to narrow somewhat in third quarter but PCI's businesses should have a strong second half of the year.
On Slide 8 is Specialty Plastics.
Sales revenue year-over-year was down 6% primarily due to lower sales volume.
That was partially offset by a favorable shift in product mix and higher selling prices.
The volume decline was mainly in the U.S.
and Europe and was for copolyester products going into the consumer and durable goods markets.
Sequentially volume was about flat.
Of course volume in the first half of 2011 was very strong and we expect the year-over-year comparisons will be a little easier the second half of the year.
The favorable shift in mix was primarily due to higher sales of cellulose esters into the LCD market where we saw some acceleration in the second quarter from fairly low levels in the first quarter.
Operating earnings were down $4 million year-over-year primarily due to lower sales volume and resulting lower capacity utilization.
Sequentially operating earnings increased $8 million due to the higher sales into the LCD market and lower raw material costs particularly for paraxylene which was down slightly from first quarter.
Looking at the year we expect normal seasonality in the second half of the year but continue to expect Specialty Plastics business to have a solid year.
Next up on Slide 9 is the summary of Solutia's second quarter results.
As a reminder Solutia earnings are not included in our second quarter results since the acquisition closed on July 2 but we thought it obviously made sense to provide you with some color on their performance.
Sales revenue declined by 4% year-over-year.
This was driven by the exchange rate effect of the strengthening dollar primarily versus the euro.
Volume overall also declined slightly with an increase in both the Technical Specialties and Performance Film segments more than offset by decline in the Advanced Interlayers segments which includes photovoltaics.
Adjusted EBITDA declined to $115 million from $141 million in the year ago quarter.
Most of the EBITDA decline was in the Advanced Interlayers businesses and there were 3 primary factors.
First lower sales volume for the Saflex product lines in Europe and this was for both the architectural and the auto market.
Second lower sales volume and margins for the photovoltaic encapsulants product lines.
And third cost associated with growth initiatives particularly for Saflex and Crystex.
Curt will talk more in his comments about the favorable financing we obtained for the transaction the progress we are making on integration and achieving the cost synergies we have targeted and the very strong cash flow we're expecting over the next 2 years.
Turning now to our outlook on Slide 10.
There continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the global economy.
Our view is that Europe is near at a recessionary level but we are not anticipating things to get worse.
In Asia Pacific and particularly in China growth has slowed but we don't see signs of further weakening there either.
And the U.S.
remained solid and we expect that will continue.
Factoring in our strong first half earnings our expectations from normal seasonality in the second half of the year and our expectation of raw material and energy cost will continue to be less volatile than in past years.
We expect to generate earnings growth in 2012 compared with 2011.
This earnings growth is driven primarily by 2 factors: solid performance of our heritage Eastman businesses which continue to deliver strong earnings; and earnings in the second half from the Solutia businesses.
One other factor is the higher tax rate which as I mentioned earlier was up in the second quarter.
We expect this will continue in the second half of the year and the corporate rate for the remainder of the year will be approximately 34%.
And I remind you that we continue to work through purchase accounting related to the Solutia acquisition.
Considering all of these factors we continue to expect 2012 earnings per share of approximately $5.30 which would be an increase of about 10% compared to 2011 and would be our third consecutive year of double-digit earnings growth.
Now I started a practice of having a 1-minute CEO spotlight.
And this time you'll see it on Page 11 Slide 11 where I wanted to talk about the new joint venture that we're just announcing.
And as I do this I want to compliment the CASPI team for all the work not only for putting up the quarter they put up but at the same time nailing this one down.
And just kudos all around for an excellent 90 days.
I'll conclude my comments then on Slide 11 by announcing the joint venture with YPC to build a world-scale hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins plant.
Let me remind you that we have a successful JV with our partner YPC that has been producing hydrogenated resin since 2001.
This new plant at 50 000 net tons will be much larger than the existing Chinese facility.
As you can see in the chart Eastman has been aggressively expanding its presence in this growing market.
We estimate that the global market is growing at 7% on a compound annual basis.
And this explains why although we have been continually adding capacity we've been on allocation for most of the last several years.
Market growth has been fueled by hygiene adhesives with disposable diapers being the most important driver.
Overall diaper consumption is only 20% to 25% of potential demand with high penetration in developed countries but very low penetration in the rest of the world.
Additionally new more sophisticated diapers require increased quantities of hydrogenated hydrocarbon resin.
Another growing application is hot-melt packaging adhesives.
New formulations enabled by our resins are replacing more traditional adhesives as they reduce downtime and production lines which therefore increases throughput.
As a summary the capacity that we will be bringing to the market represents 2 years of market growth and will be located in the region of the world that we expect will experience the highest part of that growth.
With that let me turn it over to Curt.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I'll start by reviewing our solid cash performance in the second quarter as highlighted on Slide 13.
Cash from operations was $316 million.
This is driven by continued strong net earnings.
Working capital was up slightly in the quarter and is about flat for the first half of the year.
Free cash flow for the quarter was a very strong $194 million.
Capital expenditures were $87 million and I'll talk more about our full year expectations for capital expenditures in a few minutes.
And of course we paid our dividend in the quarter which was $35 million.
This solid performance keeps us on track to meet our previous free cash flow expectations for the year for heritage Eastman.
Next on Slide 14 I'll review the financing for the Solutia transaction.
As you can see from the table we were able to obtain very attractive financing for that acquisition.
The notes were significantly oversubscribed and we ended up increasing the allocation of the 30-year notes from originally $300 million to $500 million.
The weighted average interest rate of 2.8% is better than our previous expectations.
Going forward with this new financing we now have an annualized interest rate cost approaching $190 million for the company including amortization of some pre-issuance interest rate hedges.
And this level of interest cost will decline as we delever over the coming months.
Overall we were very pleased with the financing for the transaction and I want to congratulate our treasury team and their partners in achieving such a great outcome.
Next are some comments regarding integration on Slide 15.
Even though the acquisition closed on July 2 we began planning our integration efforts shortly after the deal was announced.
We have a number of cross-functional teams leading the integration effort and they are doing an outstanding job.
One of our key priorities is retaining key talent from the acquisition and we have been successful there to date.
The feedback from our employees on the acquisition has been very positive and the professionalism exhibited by everyone I've encountered at Solutia sites has been outstanding.
As Jim mentioned earlier we do have a new operating structure with 5 segments.
We have been under way since close to implement this new structure aligning activities with the new business responsibilities and importantly everyone's remaining focused on serving our customers.
We also have a good start on merging the capabilities of the functions of the 2 companies in the areas like finance HR IT supply chain et cetera.
And lastly we also have received positive feedback from customers and suppliers that the transition post-closing has gone well.
While still early we're off to a very good start on our integration efforts.
Thus we remain committed to the cost tax and revenue synergies we announced back in January as listed here on Slide 16.
Starting with cost.
We have identified cost synergies of approximately $100 million and are now developing specific implementation plans.
These include reducing corporate costs which you would expect with 2 public companies.
About 1/3 of these cost synergies were day 1 synergies that we had targeted and we've already achieved those synergies and we'll see the benefit of those in the second half of this year.
We also see potential synergies in the purchase of raw materials and working -- we are working through different options and opportunities there.
And we expect this combination will result in improved manufacturing and supply chain processes across all of our businesses.
We remain highly confident that we will achieve a $100 million run rate of cost synergies by the end of 2013.
Moving next to tax synergies.
These remain a source of value for the acquisition.
Solutia has approximately $1.3 billion of NOLs that we can utilize over the next 15 years of which 1/2 will be utilized on the next 3 years on an accelerating basis.
There are also foreign tax credits well in excess of $150 million that can be utilized over the next 10 years.
And the combination of Solutia's geographical profile and efficient tax planning should still enable us to reduce our corporate tax rate to approximately 31%.
On the revenue synergy front we have been working closely with our businesses since close and we continue to have the confidence that these are real but will take some time to realize.
We also believe Eastman will bring strong commercial capabilities to supplement the existing Solutia businesses which will improve overall profitability in the medium and long term.
In sum we are on track to achieve the targeted synergies in each of these areas.
Let's turn to Slide 17 and talk about capital allocation.
At first I'd like you to point to the bottom of the page in the banner listed there.
We are on track to meet or exceed our target of $1 billion of free cash flow over the next 2 years.
And you can expect we'll remain balanced in allocating that free cash flow with a bias towards deleveraging over the next 18 months.
While we do so you can also expect we'll continue to pursue value-creating growth.
On capital expenditures the combined Eastman and Solutia capital expenditures for 2012 should be approximately $500 million with $400 million for heritage Eastman and about $100 million for the Solutia businesses in the second half of the year.
On debt I already mentioned that we issued $2.4 billion of public debt and the new $1.2 billion term loan.
On joint ventures and acquisitions besides the new Regalite joint venture that Jim just discussed we are also on schedule for our joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation for 30 000 tonne -- met tonne acetate tow capacity which is scheduled to be online mid-2013.
On the dividend it continues to be reasonable for investors to expect that as we continue to grow earnings that the dividend would grow also.
And of course that will be a discussion we have with our board.
And as we achieve an acceptable level of deleveraging share repurchases will be considered as part of our capital allocation choices just as we've done in the past prior to Solutia acquisition.
The main message here is that we are on track to deliver very strong cash over the next several years and beyond and we will be disciplined in our capital allocation choices.
Finally turning to Slide 18 I'd like to invite you to join us at our 2012 Investor Day in New York scheduled for the afternoon of November 5.
We're again holding the event at the Sentry Center in New York City.
This meeting is a great opportunity to share with you our vision and our growth plans showcase the depth of our product lines and our product innovations and give you a chance to interact with senior leaders of Eastman.
I'll look forward to seeing you there and with that I'll turn it back over to Greg.
Okay.
Thanks Curt and this concludes our prepared remarks.
Debbie we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And we'll take our first question today from Dave Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jim just on the Solutia businesses can you comment on perhaps second half expectations?  If you did 241 of EBITDA in the first half what would you expect their EBITDA to be in the back half of the year? First of all I just want to say what a little smart aleck you are for your head -- for your title on your alert "guidance reaffirmed corrected."  I'm teasing you because I felt a little funny about that.
I'll get to your question on Solutia but I felt a little funny about that because we did beat and then here we are we didn't raise our guidance.
And I know that goes through people's minds.
And you're kind of getting to it asking about Solutia's second half.
And obviously we're just getting to know these businesses getting to see the decisions they've made recently let me put it that way.
I would guess the second half will look something like the first half maybe even a little lighter than the first half.
We'll -- just talking from an EBITDA perspective.
But I don't have a lot of surety around exactly what those numbers are going to be.
That's why we kind of kept it at $5.30.
We can see our businesses are performing quite well quite strong.
We can see the option as we got inside Solutia how quickly we can get in there and make things happen we'll see.
But I'm guessing second half if we use roughly the first half that's probably not bad.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And Jim just on the propane propylene benefit in Q2 can you comment on that? And you mentioned it will be a little bit narrower in Q3 and Q4 as well? Yes.
I mean -- but it's going to be a great year for the spread.
I talked about how I wanted to kind of get away from talking about that.
We even sized it for you 1 year just so you could see that it wasn't all that huge for us.
And yet it feels really good when it's going our way I got to tell you.
It is a nice wind at our back so the spread's going to be there.
Again the one thing as people think about spread and they look at some of the other names one of the things they got to remember is the way we go to market.
And we're really just exploding through to derivatives and we're trying to be more stable for our customers in terms of pricing.
So we're not always getting every last penny when the raws go up and the flip side we don't always give it back.
And so partly what you see great quarter this quarter where that lag was probably working for us.
Margins come in a little bit over the next couple of quarters when maybe the lag's working against us.
But we've got a little bit different strategy than some of the guys who were a little uptight from us you might say.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly any restocking destocking trends you can call out in the businesses in June and/or July? That's a good question.
I didn't really see anything that caught my attention.
Curt looked at the orders.
I guess the orders were staying fairly strong when we looked at our order book before the conference call.
But that's thinking more of the heritage Eastman businesses.
But I didn't really hear a lot of comments on customer destocking restocking...
Yes.
David when we look at -- you've heard us talk about or looking at our order books 3 weeks and 8 weeks out.
Generally speaking those trends remained to be pretty solid.
Probably the only exception where we saw some weakness was some packaging and durable goods in Asia in our Specialty Plastics business.
And we'll take our next question from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Jim your pricing in PCI was a little weak with -- and that's understandable given lower propylene prices.
The recent oxo contract settled down 10%.
So it just seems that this pricing weakness is likely to persist in second half.
So wanted to get your comments on that and what can you do to offset some of this weakness? Greg is trying to get my attention.
So you've got some color you want to...
Well no I mean I agree.
It was down 5% and that's very much reflective of the lower propylene prices.
And as we just talked about in terms of lag sometimes it takes a little while for the pricing to catch up with the lower raws and so you might see some of that in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And the second question was on again a little bit to follow up on propane to propylene.
You could have a situation where propylene is a bit weak but as we approach winter propylene could go up especially given that you've got new propane export terminals starting up.
So given that what's your outlook in second half and beyond? I don't -- it seems like you're asking the same thing to try and get a different answer different ways.
I mean you're right.
The winter can move propane around some.
We do typically do some hedging in the wintertime to try and shield you guys from that to a certain extent so you don't have to talk that much about it.
I would say overall the markets have not done a fantastic job of calling where propane propylene spread's going to go.
I remember last year with some trepidation we talked about how this -- we ought to have a little bit of a tailwind at our back and it's probably a pretty decent tailwind at our back this year.
But you're right no one can predict what the winter's going to do so that could move your raw material.
I'd just once again remind people that our pricing strategy on the derivatives really doesn't just track 1x the propane ethane.
And I guess the only other color I'd give you P.J.
is obviously it's the ethylene side that is quite beneficial when I look at year-over-year comparisons propane to propylene fairly similar as we think about what the year's going to look like.
But the ethylene is the one that's outperforming.
And you know we keep half of that internally and sell half.
We'll take our next question from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Jim you're expanding Regalite capacity so often it's becoming a challenge to keep up with the various projects you're in.
So with regard to your latest joint venture here with YPC in China maybe can you just talk a little bit about the relationship with YPC? What the size of the Regalite business is today to the extent that you can comment on that as well as margins? And do you expect this level of growth to continue over the intermediate term? Just a little bit more color around this hydrogenated hydrocarbon business will be helpful.
Yes.
I mean it's one of the bright spots.
And when we lay out how we're reorganizing the company and our reporting segments you're going to have more of a -- you're going to have more visibility into this business because it's the adhesives piece that's going to be with the plasticizer piece.
And you're going to see a couple of really strong growers with decent earnings decent double-digit earnings.
So overall one of the bright spots deserves the capital some of the better returns when you line up all your capital projects.
A relationship with YPC is exactly what would you -- what you would want.
You'd want a partner like a Sinopec partner.
You'd want to be in China.
The other part you didn't ask but that deserves some credit we got fantastic relationships with the multinational global customers here very strong.
I mean it's with them that we're comfortable.
It's our relationship with them that gets us the comfort to go ahead and do this expansion because we can see where the product's going to go that comes out of this plant.
We know the -- basically know the names for who's going to be taking this product who wants this product because this market's been so tight.
So I mean I could go on and on on this segment.
I don't want to size it for you.
You can probably get an indication of size when you look at some of the expansions that were done.
I mean this is more than just a Regalite that's in there.
Do we talk about the revenue for this -- for Regalite specifically? I don't think we ever have but good growing business significant.
You're going to see more of it when it's put together with the plasticizer business.
Research Division</strong> Is it safe to say this is a premium-margin business for you? Oh yes.
The hydrogenated hydrocarbons is the good stuff.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
Then second question Jim I understand you're hard at work extracting the various synergies.
But to the extent that the external environment today is presumably weaker than what everyone would've thought several quarters ago are there additional levers that you can pull in terms of cost extraction restructuring initiatives either on the legacy Eastman side or on the legacy Solutia side? And I guess similar question for CapEx in terms of cash maximization.
How are you thinking about that in terms of contingency planning? The answer is yes.
Most smart management teams won't talk exactly about all the different levers that they could pull.
You're right that the economic environment is not quite as good as we'd want them.
But let's face it Europe's pretty much in recession right now or at least the bulk of Europe is in recession.
And so the way I'm looking at it I'm seeing what Solutia looks like when one of its major market segments is in recession.
And if I think about it as we head to being more diversified as we are so we're not as quite as dependent on North America and get diversified by geographies and by markets there's always going to be something that's a headwind.
There's always going to be something that's a tailwind.
I happen to think that's one of the strengths of Eastman right now that as you look across the company there's -- we can talk positively about the frac-ing spreads but then kind of moan together about what Europe looks like.
Long term I think this is going to steady out our earnings and help us continue that double-digit earnings growth.
When I look within Solutia and think about the synergies I feel really good about the $100 million.
In fact if you'll let me just a little back of the envelope the way I think about this sometimes if you think about interest expense we've picked up being about $100 million a year and the synergies we're going after being about $100 million a year and then if you get aggressive on your synergy targets over time and say maybe we can get a little more out of that and say "Well I issued some extra shares.
What's the dividend carry on those extra shares I issued?" you could get to the point with time that your synergies were basically covering your carrying costs of the data buying this thing.
So therefore what you got left is the cash flows off of the business less the CapEx that pay off your debt.
And again because of the environment yes negative economically but strong financial market-wise this one's going to look really good.
I can look inside the businesses and see that some of the stuff some of the decisions they've had to make which admittedly have had more of a short-term focus they've been more restrained in terms of coming out of bankruptcy I can just see things already that we're going to do differently as we focus on a balance between short- and midterm say results.
And very confident that you're going to see what these businesses can really do.
It will take us a couple of quarters here for a lot of that to kick in.
I agree with Curt.
I think it's -- the timing will be through '13 that we'll be able to capture these synergies.
I'm sure we'll be looking at $100 million as a floor and saying "We've got to do better than that."  In terms of other levers let's be honest.
They've pulled a few levers back in the last recession and did some things.
I don't see anything as dramatic as they did 3 or 4 years ago for us.
I think we're going to be able to focus much more on the opportunities how we can help them in product development how we can help them in manufacturing how we're going to accelerate some of the stuff they wanted to get done capture the value earlier.
But having said that I think we got a bit of a track record and I think we should get credit for knowing how to handle ourselves in various different economic environments.
And when we say we're going to do 5 30 this year and next year is going to have a 6 in front of it we're going to be taking the actions necessary to make that happen.
We'll take our next question from Edlain Rodriguez with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question on CASPI [indiscernible] Jim.
Back in April you had mentioned how on all of CASPI's business lines were up within at high levels with many products now being sold out.
How has that changed since then?  And how do you see the domain data mix for the second half of the year? Well I wish I could go ahead and do this quarter over and over and over again.
That would be pretty cool.
I don't remember saying there was a lot sold out.
I know in particular we were talking about the resins business being on allocation and quite tight.
On some of their other businesses particularly their polymer some of the really high-margin stuff maybe stuff that we're the only ones in the world who make it we never let the utilization rate get too high without debottlenecking that in some capacity.
So it's rare that on the -- I was using the phrase really good stuff -- the really good stuff the stuff that we're the only ones who make it's rare that we would ever get into a sold-out situation.
We just don't want to ever do that to our customers.
So we got the juice left to meet it.
I think the issue probably comes down more to the demand we see around the globe in the different end markets.
And guys it's tough out there.
One of the things I'm proud of is that we were able to deliver these results the way the world looks right now.
I mean Europe is a mess.
And then you can go kind of market by market whether it's building and construction particularly durable goods things like that.
It's quite soft out there so we'll see how CASPI does.
I mean I think last time we gave guidance for the full year we thought they'd be around 3 80 or so.
And I think they're going to do better than that obviously with what they've got under the belt already.
But we'll just have to -- we'll have to see how they do.
But I'm not worried about capacity or our market share things like that.
If anything it's just more that end market demand in places like Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay makes sense.
All right one quick question like longer term like in terms of acquisitions.
I mean now that you have Solutia like do you feel that the portfolio is complete now?  Or do you still think that there's some more room for more additional bolt-on acquisitions in the Eastman legacy businesses? And where do you see there's a need for that? Okay.
we'll start with our mandate.
Our #1 mandate is to grow the value of the company and particularly grow the earnings of the company so we're going to do that on 2 legs.
And of course there's always the organic growth.
You're asking about the inorganic piece.
We just took a really big step with Solutia.
We deserve a little bit of time to get it under our belt.
I wanted to echo by the way Curt's comments.
The employees of Solutia have just been fantastic.
I think they're pretty upbeat about being part of a larger chemical company.
We're not meeting any resistance when it comes to getting synergies and getting things done.
In fact there's a lot of excitement about how we can grow these businesses together.
Part of that excitement comes from -- that we'll have the ability to do bolt-ons in their existing businesses if we see the opportunity but also in the core businesses.
And having said that we got the opportunity.
We'll have the financial strength to do that.
Of course top priority for cash is paying down debt here in the near term.
But then the issue is is there really much in the way of bolt-ons out there?  And that's kind of where you were coming from.
We'll just have to see.
I mean I was -- I got to tell you I was a little disappointed we didn't see more bolt-ons in the 2010 2011 timeframe.
We did a few in the plasticizer world.
There may be some more out there but we take such a disciplined approach in terms of what we're willing to pay and does it drive us in the direction we want to go.
But I don't want to pull up a lot of hopes for there's going to be a lot more bolt-ons or something coming.
If it makes sense we'll do it but I'm not sure how many there are in the core businesses.
We'll go next to Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> On the Solutia part itself I guess one it wasn't under your control but how did that 1 15 number kind of come in relative to your expectations for the business sitting from the outside? And then when you think about moving from a nearer-term view that the Solutia management had to kind of your medium- to longer-term view does that really mean that margins are going to come down as we're going to have to put some more SG&amp;A R&amp;D through these businesses to get them to grow more over time? Yes let me start there.
That's not the signal I was trying to send.
Let me start with the beginning of your question the 1 15.
Yes that was a disappointment no doubt about it.
I was hoping that they would do a little better.
I can understand that 3 months before your company gets sold that you might not expect crackerjack results.
I know that they had some things that I might think of as more onetime or at least I hope they're onetime like some bad debts adding to environmental reserves things like that.
But still it was a disappointment.
It was mainly around Europe.
It was mainly Saflex in the photovoltaic business.
And I think we know how to help both of those businesses.
When I talk about short term versus medium term it doesn't necessarily mean spending more money.
A lot of this has to do with how you approach the market and some of the decisions you make in terms of your contracting your pricing either relationships you build with your customers et cetera.
So maybe you're not just going quarter-to-quarter maximizing earnings.
Maybe what you're trying to do was think a little bit longer term with your key customers and take a longer-term approach to value capture out of the marketplace.
So I think I said it before I see opportunities for things we will do differently.
And I'm guessing that you won't be able to see much of that through the rest of this year that '13 will be a year of transition.
And when we get to 2014 you're really going to like the way these businesses look.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then shifting to Specialty Plastics a little smaller business.
But copolyesters was taking some pretty good market share so for volumes to be down that significantly was a surprise to me.
Do you think there was an inventory effect there? Can you talk a little bit about -- more about the market share you're taking with copolyesters and what's happening with volumes there? Yes I can.
I mean -- and maybe Curt wants to add some color because I feel like I'm doing all the talking here.
But I can tell you the place I see that got hit was really the durables.
And Mark Costa's given me the example yesterday about Jim when the economy's tough people just aren't out buying new blenders and new durable goods that might have our copoly unit.
You saw a nice pickup in the CT cellulose triacetate that goes into the displays in flat screens.
That really helped Asia and helped that business sequentially.
But I would say they're very much exposed to the durable goods part of it.
They've got a lot of work under way to move their mix to things more like medical et cetera but that takes time.
I'd say on the Tritan line the second line we brought up we filled that first one out really fast.
I'd say we got kind of spoiled on that one.
Tritan when you think about the markets it's going into it's fighting the same kind of durable goods battle right now so that was flat.
And it's probably going to take us a little longer to fill that second line now but that doesn't shake my confidence.
I can see the value proposition.
I know we've got a good product.
I know we'll take share from some of the competing materials.
I don't know if there's anything...
The thing I might add is that some of their businesses are more economically sensitive than others.
The great thing about that we've made the investment.
We have the capacity so when those end markets come back this business is well positioned to improve its performance.
We'll go next to Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate your comment about you deserve maybe credit for some stuff that you guys have done over time.
But I guess when I look at your margin structure it sort of says specialty.
But when I look at your multiple it screams commodity.
And maybe this is a function of your historic legacy in polyethylene and PET.
But I'm just curious what can you guys do or how do you think you get to a reasonable shareholder investor regard for your portfolio when it seems stuck sort of in the history? I very much appreciate the question.
It's one that quite often we ask people on your side of the desk.
Look we all know multiples are sticky.
We know there's lots of CEO's out there who try and jawbone them up et cetera.
I never thought that really has any kind of lasting impact.
I do think it -- a lot depends on how we talk about ourselves and think of ourselves and how we represent our businesses.
So just to be very open talking about things like volume doesn't sound as much like a specialty business as just talking about end markets and growth in end markets.
And as we roll these businesses together and we get our new segments I think it's going to be clearer to people just the results of all the work that's been done and what we see as our prospects for growth in our margins.
So I always have a hard time if someone says specialty versus commodity.
And then you say "Well define specialty " and then you get 5 or 6 different answers.
But to us what we're driving and I think people are going to have to eventually recognize is we're driving year-over-year earnings growth.
And we're doing it whichever way is the most efficient and makes the most sense.
We have a great financing market.
We saw an opportunity with Solutia to pick up some quality businesses and put it into a portfolio of other businesses that have strong cash flows.
So you really don't have to leave opportunities on the table like maybe you do if you come out of bankruptcy and were pretty inhibited in your cash flows.
And I think it's just a matter of time.
But how quickly the market gets there I'm not sure.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask you on your portfolio in the quarter you had a 1% price decline which was clearly far better than a lot of commodity companies.
But it was still a decline.
You mentioned you're trying not to price your products on sort of a cost basis.
So for a typical Eastman product how often do you reset pricing and how do those contracts look? Yes I mean as much as I'd love to say it's just all specialty part of that is the fact that the raws came up.
We actually expanded spreads in the company overall when I look at just price versus raw materials and energy it actually expanded a little bit.
But much of our markets much of our businesses the pricing is more quarterly annual in some places like fibers.
Probably the correct way to do it is to have pricing formulas that are more monthly frankly monthly to quarterly.
But again it just depends on the product.
So that would be true for the more heritage commodity-like stuff for the more specialty stuff that's priced off of value proposition some of the stuff in CASPI for example will just get repriced once a year.
Fibers is once a year.
Some of the Solutia businesses are just once a year.
So we'll try and hit the right mix the right blend working with our customers and what works for them.
We'll go next to Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> One of the themes of Eastman since you announced the Solutia transaction has been your tax savings.
And yet in the second half you now think that the tax rate will be 34%.
So did you run into obstacles that are keeping you from using some of the NOLs or some of the tax strategies that you thought you could employ? I'll let Curt take this one.
Jeff no the answer to that is no.
What you're seeing right now is just simply the effect of a more predominant earnings mix of U.S.
versus outside the U.S.
We think over time that will correct itself.
As it relates to implementing tax planning or tax efficiency structures we're in the process of doing that today.
A lot of that will be put in place the end of third quarter some going into fourth quarter.
So we do believe we'll see the benefit of tax structure.
And so we will get to those benefits.
And if you get some reasonable return to the mix of domestic and foreign earnings that's what gives us comfort to get to that 31% rate.
On the usage of the NOL we're still highly confident to use that.
You saw in our S-4 we thought that number's going to be about $675 million.
We still feel good about that number.
Maybe it will be even a little bit better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I don't think that you expected that your tax rate would be that high for the second quarter.
And I think about the conditions under which you bought Solutia and that was a world in which ethylene prices were $0.55 a pound.
Then order of magnitude they dropped into the high 30s now they're in the low 40s.
So presumably the raw material synergies that you expected from Solutia really should be much larger than what you originally expected.
So are you getting more -- because you must have higher pretax income with this higher tax rate.
So are you getting more raw material synergies that you forecast in the second half that's offset by a higher tax rate? Let me start of then Curt may want to add.
But again the tax rate had more to do with where the earnings are.
And as you know the way most companies get that lower tax rate is by having more overseas earnings and lower tax jurisdictions.
When I think about raw material synergies it's not what price ethylene is at any one point in time.
It's what we're going to be able to do within our supply chain in terms of buying their raw materials et cetera or the swaps that we'll do with other companies.
So I don't know Curt do you want to...
Yes Jeff if you're talking about 2 aspects of your question.
I think first of all as it relates to the tax rate yes that tax rate is higher than we'd probably envisioned back in January.
So if you think about just kind of our expectations at that time what you're seeing is Eastman's businesses are probably doing a little bit better.
Solutia's business is doing a little bit worse.
But then offsetting some of that tax rate impact is the better financing that we had in place.
As it relates to the $100 million of cost synergies we have assumed some modest improvement in raw material savings and logistics savings.
I think a year or so from now we're going to -- when we talk about and report on about how we did against those synergies I think we'll do better than that particularly in the raw material side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly in the last conference call you talked about I think in 2015 being able to buy 300 million pounds of propylene or effectively something like that from PDH producer.
I guess now it's clear that that's enterprise.
So when you did that deal do you have to pay an upfront fee that gives you cost economics? And if you do is it $100 million or $50 million or -- if you don't why is it rational for them to just give you manufacturing economics in propylene? Yes actually Jeff there's no upfront fee.
And in fact there's a contract that gives us propylene even sooner than the plant being finished that's also advantaged.
So we'll get some benefiting before the plant comes online.
Why does it makes sense for them? Because they have the surety of a nice credit like Eastman taking a big chunk of their offtake and they build up the plant.
I mean they really could accept a lower return.
It's really a good return by the way but they could accept a lower return because they have such a low-risk project.
At least that's the way I would analyze their side of the table.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I noted that you said that you guys had the second-highest quarter this past quarter.
So that would give you the silver medal but we're all expecting gold here.
Can we see gold-medal performance in the third quarter? That's going to be tough.
That's going to be tough.
My guess we're not really giving quarter-by-quarter guidance but if you were a betting man you would say it's going to look similar to the second quarter.
Now realize we didn't go into it a lot.
There's going to be a lot of noise and confusion because when you buy a company you write all their inventories up to market and there's all that kind of stuff we're going to have to guide you through.
But assuming that the world kind of holds together here you're probably going to have a similar -- speaking just of the heritage businesses a similar kind of quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> But my guess is then there is some level of accretion that comes at Solutia.
So I mean you're really only -- you're guiding to an average of 1 34 per quarter the next 2 quarters is what you're guiding to with that 5 30 number.
And realize some of the headwinds here though.
I mean you just -- Curt was talking about one with Jeff on the tax rate being a headwind.
The Solutia businesses are underperforming where we hope they'd be this year.
Not worried because we think we see that what we can do with those businesses and there's still fantastic value in the long term there with those businesses.
The interest expense came in a little better than what we thought.
I mean we've got this mix of headwinds tailwinds and we're just trying to give you the straight-up that it's looking like 5 30.
I mean as one of the reports said maybe I had a little bit of a cushion the last time we said 5 30.
It's -- we got to do a little more work to hit it this time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well let's take a look at Solutia.
You said -- I think you say you know how to help those businesses.
So you said Saflex in Europe was obviously difficult.
Global auto builds are pretty good.
So globally I would anticipate Saflex is doing fine as a product but obviously in Europe it's suffering.
But you're getting growth in the U.S.
you're getting growth in Asia.
So then that begs the question photovoltaics.
What's your game plan on that business? Just on Saflex first of all Europe's an important market for them so they -- hopefully they've talked about that before.
But it is their more profitable market.
So $1 of sales in Europe is not the same as $1 of sales in Asia.
And so that's -- so it hurts when Europe's down.
You think about the automakers in Europe et cetera I don't see that being a long-term trend.
We see that coming back.
And in terms of photovoltaic what can I tell you? We didn't think we paid a lot for it as we value the company.
I think we've said that before.
They are definitely under pressure.
We deserve a little bit of time to assess what a turnaround plan would look like the probability of success on that turnaround plan for that business.
And we're not the most patient people.
The shareholders of Eastman are not always the most patient people and I would expect we'll have more to talk about on that what our path is going forward on Investors Day.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay All right.
And I was struck by Curt's comment that you expect to spend $500 million this year of which $100 million is Solutia in the second half of the year.
I mean that seems like a rather high number for Solutia.
Very high number for Solutia.
Don't annualize that.
Yes and if I might add one of the growth aspects that Solutia brings is expansion options in Kuantan Malaysia to serve the Asian market.
Obviously that is one of the levers we'll look at as we continue to look at how the economies are shaping up.
And we'll see if we have to make adjustments for that.
But that's kind of where we're at to start out of the  gate.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
My early betting line is that you don't spend $500 million this year but that's just me.
And lastly Jim you flagged out the Fibers' buying pattern being a negative in the second quarter.
Is -- were those business just traditionally lumpy good lumpy bad? Second half of the year lumpy good? Yes I got 0 worries about Fibers Frank.
I mean if I put my list of worries down on a piece of paper fibers doesn't even show up on the page.
So it was in Asia it was the classic customer buying pattern.
I think we're going to be close to selling out on tow this year so I'm not worried about which quarter it comes in.
I think for the year they're going to have a very good year.
We'll take our next question from Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Curious about in PCI how much Sterling and Scandiflex added to volumes since you haven't anniversary-ed those 2 acquisitions? Well it did help.
They're not huge.
I don't know Curt if you've got any comment.
I tell you it did help but not as material number on a year-over-year basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on your cellulose esters and triacetates and LCD are your -- is your mix somewhat geared more towards panels than LCD TVs? Because we saw certainly some weakness in LCD TVs in the developed markets.
I'm just curious it seems like you performed a little bit better than the overall market.
What was driving that? Yes I'm not sure and I don't know exactly what the mix is between the 2.
I know we're in several layers on the screens.
I think that usually what moves our results is more the customers and their inventory positions.
And I know they got fairly light in inventories and had a lot of make-up to do after the first quarter.
And so I think that drove it.
So I don't if you can extrapolate our results to the end market results because the way this supply chain works is not always the most logical.
So I think our customers have their inventories get fairly low and then had to play some catch-up and do some buying.
Okay.
And Nils if I could just come back to remind on Sterling.
We talked about the acetic acid business that came with that.
That's about $100 million of revenue a year.
The real benefit of that plant acquisition will be as we start up this new PC asset plasticizer asset you'll start seeing that benefit over the coming quarters.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I think you said you could get to $200 million at some point in a couple of years.
Is that still...
Yes that's still -- that's still the path.
Yes absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Just a question on Europe.
It seems from at least your comments during the call it's a lot worse than expected.
And yet in the prepared kind of slides you said it doesn't seem to be deteriorating anymore.
So could you help parse those 2? What are you seeing that suggests that it's not getting any worse?  Because it certainly sounds like from your comments that it's not too good.
Yes I hear you.
The bit about it being worse than expected I was really thinking more of Solutia's business and their exposure to Europe and how that went with the auto builds being negative in Europe year-over-year versus the rest of the world.
So for the -- for our heritage business or for the combined entity I don't think there was that big a difference between first and second quarter if I look at the volumes that -- how they came off a little bit more in the second quarter than what it was for the whole first half of the year right? Yes but a notch.
But a notch is like -- difference being 6% for the half and 7% in the quarter something like that.
So I don't know maybe there's a bit of hope in there as well but I just -- as we look at the order patterns that we can see talk to the customers and I just had 2 weeks in Europe getting -- hitting a bunch of countries and our different locations et cetera.
It seems to be a disconnect between the talking heads on TV back here and what the guys in the trenches in Europe are seeing.
So our best guess I'll just say it that way our best guess is that Europe just kind of putters along down here to level it's at through the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one last question if I may.
It seems like at least on your currency in Latin America you didn't suffer nearly as much as a headwind as many of your peers who saw large single-digit declines.
What is -- is there a different exposure to your business that you're able to offset that? What caused it to be less of a headwind? So you're talking about the euro I think is what you mentioned? Research Division</strong> Latin America actually.
Latin America?  I mean I think....
Instability [ph] in currency the only thing I can think.
Yes it comes down to how we price some of our products that we export to those marketplaces.
And we'll take our final question from Andrew Feinman with Iridian.
I was just wondering if you could give us any update on Tritan 2 and acetylated wood? Yes thanks Andy.
It's exciting stuff.
I mean I mentioned Tritan a little bit earlier that it's probably going to take us a little longer to fill out that second line than maybe we first thought.
It's not frankly hardly anything to do with Tritan everything to do with the economy and the durables goods markets et cetera like I was mentioning before.
But I'd say that's fantastic product we will fill the line out.
It is going to take share from the other materials it's just going to take us a little bit longer.
On the acetylated wood and thanks for giving me a chance to talk about it.
In the market right now both pro-channel and big-box channel getting the results in obviously still early.
I think we're going to have good customer acceptance.
We're learning some stuff about coding versus not coding et cetera.
But I think we've got a good one there but we're going to want to do it a measured pace.
When you deal with the retail market you only get one chance to put a good brand out there so we want to make sure we do it the right way.
I can tell you just from a manufacturing point of view the little semi works if you want to call it that plant that we built here in Kingsport running very well getting more capacity out of it than we thought typical Eastman fashion people continually finding ways to improve the process get in this case more board feet out of the same plant.
Decent market acceptance but we've got some fine-tuning to do in terms of how we go to market what the end product looks like which segments we go into.
So still a bit early but overall quite positive.
Okay.
This concludes -- thanks again for joining us this morning.
A web replay and a replay in downloadable MP3 format will be available on our website beginning at 11 A.M.
this morning.
Have a great day everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference.
Have a great rest of your day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay thank you Mara.
And good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Jim Rogers Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Josh Morgan Manager Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover 4 items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's third quarter 2012 financial results news release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-K filed for full year 2011 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for third quarter 2012.
Second earnings per share and operating earnings referenced in this presentation exclude Solutia acquisition financing transaction integration and inventory costs and charges as well as asset impairments and restructuring charges net.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the Solutia acquisition transaction financing integration and inventory costs and charges and the asset impairment restructuring charges net are available in our third quarter financial results news release and the tables accompanying the release available in the Investors section of our website eastman.com.
Third this presentation includes sales revenue and operating earnings on a pro forma combined basis assuming the acquisition of Solutia have been completed prior to third quarter 2011 that compares post-acquisition results to pre-acquisition pro forma combined results.
For more information on pro forma combined results see the Solutia acquisition section in our third quarter financial results news release.
Also on October 15 we furnished to the SEC a Form 8-K with pro forma combined historical financial information for our new segments.
In the said 8-K you will find sales revenue operating earnings and depreciation and amortization for 2009 through the first half of 2012 for our new segments.
And lastly we have posted the slides that accompany our remarks this morning on our website in the presentation and events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Greg.
And good morning everyone.
I'll start on Slide 3.
As is my normal practice I will start by holding us accountable for our key outlook statements.
As you're aware we were able to close the Solutia acquisition on July 2 meeting the midyear commitment we made to you back in January when the deal was announced.
Let me reiterate how excited we are to have Solutia as part of the Eastman and how confident we are in the value this transaction will create both in the near and long term.
We will go into greater detail during our upcoming Investor Day highlighting why these businesses are so attractive and fit so well with our strategy.
In his section Curt will also give a brief update on how the integration is progressing as well as provide a summary of the transaction from the standpoint of the opening balance sheet.
Next back in July we indicated our expectation was for full year 2012 EPS to be approximately $5.30 and we slightly raised that expectation and I'll talk more about that in a moment.
And lastly we indicated we expected to generate $1 billion of free cash in 2012 and 2013 combined.
Again we are on track to deliver on this commitment.
While I don't want to give too much away out of the great story we will share with you on November 5 what I will say today is that given all of the portfolio work we have done over the last several years including the Solutia acquisition we now have a portfolio of businesses that we expect to produce solid consistent earnings growth and cash generation for years to come.
On Slide 4 I'll hit the Eastman corporate results.
You can see sales revenue on a pro forma basis declined slightly as lower selling prices primarily due to lower raws and energy costs were partially offset by higher sales volume in most segments.
Pro forma combined operating earnings increased due to lower raw material and energy costs and higher sales volume partially offset by the lower selling prices.
Third quarter EPS was $1.57 which is a record for our company demonstrating the strength and diversity of our businesses during a challenging economic environment.
I will also point out that we had a lower-than-expected tax rate during the quarter which Curt will discuss in his section.
Moving next to Slide 5.
And as this is the first time we presented results under the new structure.
In each of the segment sections I will take a moment to remind you the major components of each business.
Of course we will give you a much more thorough overview in 10 days during our Investor Day.
Beginning with Additives &amp; Functional Products.
This segment consists of the rubber materials product lines from Solutia's former Technical Specialties segment and the specialty polymers and solvents product lines of the Eastman's former CASPI segment.
Sales revenue for Additives &amp; Functional Products was relatively stable down 1% as higher volume in solvents were offset by lower selling prices due to lower raw material and energy cost particularly for propane.
Operating earnings were up substantially as higher volume and lower raw material and energy costs more than offset those lower selling prices.
We expect the Additives &amp; Functional Products segment to deliver strong results in Q4 albeit with a typical seasonal decline in volume.
Next on Slide 6.
The Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers segment consists of the adhesives product lines formerly in the CASPI segment and the plasticizer product lines formerly in the PCI segment.
Sales revenue was unchanged with offsetting factors.
Volume increased as we continue to realize the benefits of customer substitution from phthalate plasticizers to Eastman's broad portfolio of non-phthalate plasticizers largely offsetting the increased volume with lower selling prices in response to lower raw material and energy costs.
Operating earnings increased as higher sales volume and lower raw material and energy costs more than offset those negative lower pricing -- lower prices.
We expect the Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers segment results to decline somewhat in the fourth quarter due to normal seasonality.
On Slide 7 is the Advanced Materials segment.
This consists of Eastman's former Specialty Plastics segment and Solutia's former Performance Films and Advanced Interlayers segments.
Sales revenue was unchanged as higher volume was offset by the negative impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar and lower selling prices.
Operating earnings declined primarily due to lower sales volume in the Advanced Interlayers product lines due to the weakness in Europe and the negative impact of lower capacity utilization.
In the fourth quarter we expect Advanced Materials earnings to decline due to normal seasonality and decline in demand particularly in Europe and Asia and our efforts to reduce our inventories.
Specialty Fluids and Intermediates is on Slide 8.
This segment consists of the specialty fluids product lines from Solutia's former Technical Specialties segment and the oxo and acetyl intermediates product lines from the PCI segment.
Sales revenue declined 10% as lower selling prices were partially offset by higher sales volume.
And the lower selling prices were primarily in our olefin derivative product lines and in response to lower raw material and energy costs.
For example propane and ethane prices declined by 1/3 or more in the third quarter 2012 compared with third quarter 2011.
As with Additives &amp; Functional Products and Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers the Specialty Fluids and Intermediates segment receives about 1/3 of our propylene spread benefit and the majority of our ethylene spread benefit.
Operating earnings increased substantially as lower raw material and energy costs and the benefit of our favorable olefins position more than offset lower selling prices.
Fourth quarter operating earnings for the Specialty Fluids and Intermediates are expected to reflect continued solid volume but also a seasonally higher propane cost.
On Slide 9 is Fibers.
And as you might expect we did not change this segment.
Fibers sales revenue increased due to higher selling prices in response to higher raw material and energy costs particularly for wood pulp.
Operating earnings were flat as higher selling prices were largely offset by higher raw material and energy costs.
Fourth quarter earnings for Fibers are expected to continue to be strong.
And finally on Slide 10.
As we enter the seasonally slower fourth quarter the global economic outlook continues to remain challenging.
Our view is that Europe will remain stable at a recessionary level.
In Asia Pacific particularly in China growth has slowed but we are not seeing any signs of further weakening.
And we expect the U.S.
to remain solid as it has all year.
We are expecting higher raw material and energy costs towards the end of the year.
For example we expect propane prices to increase as we move into winter as propane is used for heating particularly in the Northeast.
We have extended the shutdown of one of our crackers in Longview Texas by approximately 3 weeks to the middle of November due to a need for additional maintenance on unit equipment and this is expected to have a slight negative impact on results in the quarter.
And given our outlook for a stable economy we expect our businesses will remain strong as they have throughout 2012.
As a result we are slightly increasing our 2012 earnings per share expectations to a range of $5.30 to $5.40.
And this would be more than 10% over our 2011 EPS and would be the third year in a row of double-digit earnings growth for Eastman.
I expect that trend will continue going into 2013 and look forward to sharing more with you during our Investor Day on November 5.
And with that I'll turn it over to Curt.
Thanks Jim and good morning everyone.
I'll begin on Slide 12 by reviewing our solid cash performance in the third quarter.
Operating cash was $353 million driven by solid net earnings.
Free cash flow for the quarter was strong at $197 million.
Capital expenditures were $120 million during the quarter.
For the year we are reducing our expectations for capital expenditures to approximately $450 million.
And of course during the quarter we paid our dividend of $36 million.
This continued solid performance keeps us on track to meet our commitment of generating over $1 billion of free cash flow in 2012 and 2013 combined.
Next on Slide 13 are some detail on our tax rate for the quarter.
It came in below the 34% we projected primarily due to 2 factors.
First we settled income tax audits both in the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
during the quarter.
These resulted in approximately $8 million of benefit.
In addition we benefited from the reversal of tax reserves due to the expiration of relevant statute of limitations and this was about a $5 million benefit in the quarter.
These factors won't recur in the fourth quarter and as a result we are expecting our fourth quarter rate to be approximately 34%.
For the year we expect our tax rate will be approximately 33%.
And for 2013 you should expect that the rate will be lower and I'll give you more details on that during our Investor Day discussions.
On Slide 14 is an update on the Solutia integration.
We made good progress since the deal was closed on July 2.
We have completed our opening balance sheet and much of that is now reflected in our results.
Our new segment structure is now in place and work has been underway since the deal closed to implement the structure.
And I must say our newly aligned businesses have been operating very effectively as demonstrated in our results in the third quarter.
As Jim mentioned earlier we will cover each segment and their respective strategies when we hold our Investor Day.
One of our most important priorities is to continue to retain key talent from this acquisition and we've been successful to date.
The feedback from our new employees have been very positive and their professionalism continues to be outstanding.
We also continue to make good progress with our functional consolidation of areas including finance HR IT and supply chain et cetera.
The bottom line:  We have made great progress on the integration and we remain very confident we will achieve the synergies that we've discussed with you in the past.
I'll end on Slide 15 with one last reminder that we are hosting an Investor Day on Monday November 5.
We're again holding the event at the Midtown Sentry Center at -- in New York at Third Avenue and 48th Streets.
We will begin with lunch at noon and expect to conclude around 4:30.
Through the day we will share with you our vision and our growth plans showcase the depths of our product lines and our product innovations and give you a chance to interact with the senior leaders of Eastman.
I look forward to seeing you there.
And with that Greg I'll turn it back over to you.
Okay thanks.
Mara this concludes our prepared remarks and we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We go first to David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jim some talk about the MLP structures for olefin assets.
Can you talk about your thinking about dropping down some of your olefin assets into an MLP structure? Yes we actually noticed that so thanks for bringing it up.
It gives me a chance to talk about what we've been able to do in Texas.
Then I'm going to turn it over to Curt to get specific on MLPs.
But just a quick review: I'm fairly proud of our track record on our crackers and what we've done.
We got a jump on that restarting crackers when we saw how the world was changing and we've been benefiting from that for a while.
And then we got a really good contract with Enterprise which takes care of our internal needs and gets us as producer economics.
So that got us up to the point where we've taken care of ourself and then we could look and say "Is there further value we can create?" And judging by inbound calls that mainly Curt has to take my sense is the world thinks there is more value we can create there.
And so then the IRS came out with this letter -- and let me flip it over to Curt.
Yes.
David so we're aware of the July 2 ruling letter.
Like many in the industry we're still evaluating what this might mean for Eastman as a source of value creation.
It's a little harder to think it through completely with our existing operating assets given the integrated nature of our plants but we're still doing that.
It clearly becomes an additional factor to consider with our nonoperating assets like the idle cracker that we have sitting in Longview Texas or even the potential future investment in the olefin converting unit that we've discussed previously.
And as Jim mentioned it's fair to say we've had a variety of interest expressed by others in these options even before that ruling came out.
But it's really too early to exactly determine what the best way to create value here.
I have a lot of confidence in the business team that manages these assets.
And Eastman will be judicious in our evaluation.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just on the operating businesses Jim Curt can you talk about how Crystex performed in the quarter? Yes.
I think it was fine.
I mean -- let me put that in context for you though.
In other words it was similar to year-over-year and similar to last quarter.
And if you think about the marketplace they're in -- in fact not just Crystex a number of our product lines and not just Solutia either guys -- our heritage businesses.
I mean it is a tough world out there.
Europe is definitely in  recession.
I mean I guess there's pockets of strength like Germany but definitely a recession in Europe.
Asia softened up quite a bit during the year.
Even North America as much as we say it looks good on a relative basis it's really nothing to brag about traditionally when I look back at past years and how strong we have run in the past.
So Crystex Saflex our own polymers.
I mean I think they're doing well in what looks like very down markets.
And I guess the proof's in the pudding: with everything we got going on macroeconomics doing a big integration of a large acquisition like Solutia and we still post record earnings.
I'm very proud of the guys.
Research Division</strong> I just last Jim.
Can you quantify the impact of the extended cracker downtime and the inventory reduction in Advanced Materials in Q4? Yes.
And I'm glad you raised that.
I mean I've put it in my comments because I read some of the early reports from you guys and you're all kind of scratching your head "What about the fourth quarter?" It sounds like you're actually taking us down.
And so we got bit.
It's not huge.
It'll be I would guess less than $0.10; of course we're not back up and running that either so -- but it's not like I say a big number but it's enough to take a little of the bloom off the rose or whatever.
So again I think back and I say yes.
But at the start of the year if you told me which way the macroeconomic world was going to go and that you would end up with some -- a cracker issue at the end of the year and you'd still be able to add to your forecast and what you said you would do versus having to come down like some of the other folks have had to do I feel pretty good about the strength of our businesses.
But yes it's going to bite us for probably less than $0.10.
For our next question we go to Morgan Stanley for a question from Vincent Andrews.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us your view on propane? Obviously you expected it like most people would to go up because of the winter but there's a -- pieces out there that it's actually going to move meaningfully higher regardless of the winter.
So what are your thoughts? Yes I guess we're not in the latter camp at least not yet so we're still just thinking seasonally on propane.
Obviously it came off quite a bit year-over-year.
And again just for everybody on the call who may not be as deep into this because it's not that big a part of our business anymore but we're really interested in that spread over the propane ethane through our derivative products.
And we tried to factor in all the movements we can see when we gave you that fourth quarter guidance that there might be a little squeeze on that spread in the fourth quarter and that's why we shook out where we are.
We'll talk more about next year but I can just tell you I don't see it hurting us next year let's put it that way.
I think we'll continue with the kind of strength we had in that spread this year into next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly could you talk a little bit about Saflex? I know it's an annual contracting business.
And obviously European autos have been weak this year so how do you feel about volume and price in that business going into next year? Yes it probably just a little too early to talk about it.
Actually we have Mark Costa in Europe right now chatting with a few of those customers getting to know them a little better talking about relationships longer-term game plans which is the way we like to work with our customers.
We're obviously a major key supplier with a very strong product line.
I think there was some ground loss last year by the Solutia team as they looked at trade-offs between Europe and Asia.
We're going to try and be smarter about that this year.
But I won't be able to give you any more color.
Probably even on Investor Day it will be hard to give more color on that unless Mark's got something he can share with us coming back from Europe.
And our next question will come from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk -- I mean obviously great results but can you talk a little bit about your volumes by geography in the third quarter and what your expectations are? Yes I guess.
I'm doing this from memory and the guys will help me out because I told Greg ahead of time if I got a regional question he was the man because he's got this stuff nailed.
But I know volumes are up in Asia and that was probably -- attribute that to our Fibers business.
Latin -- and well I shouldn't go to Latin America.
Let me turn it over to Greg rather than me trying to do it.
Greg? Yes.
So in Asia certainly we had a good quarter.
I'd say that was probably driven by the Fibers acetate tow.
We also had a good quarter in Specialty Plastics in Asia maybe a little bit down in Specialty Fluids and Intermediates.
If you think about North America North America was down but that was -- on the revenue side it was down but that was more of a pricing story.
Volumes were kind of flattish maybe up a little bit in North America.
And then as you would have expected we did see some down volumes in Europe given the economic situation there.
LLC Research Division</strong> And you would anticipate those trends to play out in 4Q? Are the bottoming or...
I think the -- one of the bigger trends in 4Q is just going to be the seasonal impact on us Frank.
I've been here long enough to learn that that's not to be underestimated.
So I guess most of the business typically come off in the fourth quarter.
And I guess as I listen to other companies talk we really don't have much different to say about the regions of the world and what we see on the end market demand and others.
I just -- I appreciate the fact that our portfolio of businesses is diverse enough across customers markets geographies et cetera that when something seems to be weak like European autos we got enough other places to pick up the slack and continue growing the earnings.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned in the Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers segment that pricing followed raws down.
Can you talk about the ability or inability to hang onto pricing in that segment? It's similar to a number of segments that it's -- in many areas it's a spread game.
There's -- in adhesives in particular when the market is being quite tight you haven been able to hold onto spread and you've seen spreads increase not just for us but competitors as well in the adhesives market and strong demand for those hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins that go into diapers et cetera.
And so that has been a good business not only for us but for our customers typically.
Plasticizers I would say just my experience is a little more transparency there and so you're a little more likely for pricing to move with the raws.
But I would say overall again it's a spread game and that's what we play.
We now go to Edlain Rodriguez with Lazard Capital.
Research Division</strong> Jim just a quick follow-up on the pricing issue.
So for the fourth quarter as we expect prices to move -- I mean raw materials to go up like propane do you expect to see prices for many of those products moving up as well? Or is there a lag in when you're able to do that? Yes it's a little bit of a lag.
So that's -- I think I shot a quick comment in there earlier that there'll probably be a little squeeze in the fourth quarter.
You know what I mean?  We had a little benefit in the third so you probably get squeezed in the fourth.
I try not to worry too much about it quarter to quarter and that's why I stepped back and said this was a very good year for that spread.
In particular the ethylene spread was very good this year.
And next year I don't -- it may come in different parts different quarters but next year I would guess the spread will continue to be a real strength for Eastman.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just another question on the integration of Solutia.
I mean now that you have it under your belt like how comfortable are you with the synergy numbers you gave prior to the closing of the deal? And any progress on that any update on that? Yes.
Curt's accusing me of having amnesia because somehow the $100 million we promised is turning into a floor and we're looking for higher numbers.
But let me turn it over to Curt because he -- Curt is the lead on the integration.
So let's just remind ourselves of the 3 buckets and let me just talk through it briefly.
The first bucket is taxes.
We feel very confident that we'll capture the tax synergies we discussed both in the form of using the NOLs 1/3 of which we'll use over the next 3 years as well as implementing tax strategies that'll get us towards that 31% tax rate.
On the cost synergies we have broken those cost synergies down into 3 categories:  The first about 1/3 being corporate cost that go away day one and we've achieved those.
Secondly functional costs where we have redundancies.
We've captured some of those.
More require -- others that we have identified really need it as we go through implementation of systems going into the 2013 year.
But if you look at the cost synergies combined I would guess by the end of the year of that $100 million we're probably going to be halfway there on a run rate basis.
I would also like to highlight just the business synergies.
And there's really as we talked about business synergies they're a little longer term but I still like the opportunities that are there.
They're the long-term revenue synergies we talk about like in Advanced Materials that'll give opportunities for those businesses to figure out how to bring better value to our customers.
Secondly I also think there's going to be an increase in scale and capabilities of manufacturing and technology.
That's going to accelerate some of our product development of our gen-2 acoustic product lines given our polymer science capabilities as well as we look to improve the reliability and cost operations pursue debottlenecks everything else at these sites because Eastman's good at that.
And then lastly I also think we will continue to accelerate the development of commercial capabilities such as contracting and pricing.
So when you put those all together I feel very good about the achievement of the cost synergies and the long-term potential in this transaction.
Research Division</strong> And just quickly on cash flow.
I mean you continue to generate a very strong cash flow.
Acquisitions are probably off the table for now because of Solutia.
Can you remind us what the priority for cash is going forward again? Yes I'll let Curt do that in a second.
But just on acquisitions: You're right in terms of where our priorities are.
And let's generate the cash let's get this thing under our belt pay down some debt.
Having said that we have the financial strength.
We have the bandwidth that if there was something that was just exceptional we don't have to let it go by without getting our dog in a hunt.
But I mean the odds are that the way we would set the hurdles would be so high for us to find something interesting enough that we would want to get involved with a small bolt-on and I do mean small.
I mean it would be nothing of size.
Odds are it's going to get just the way you laid out which is we'll generate the cash we'll pay down the debt and then we'll look around for other ways to grow.
And do you want to just comment on use of the cash? Yes.
So uses of cash our priority is our investment-grade credit rating; we remain committed to that.
So we will have a level of deleveraging as we finish up this year and as we go on towards the end of next year.
And our commitment is roughly to pay down $1 billion of debt during this time frame.
But as we do that and as we demonstrate progress on that then that does allow us to look across the different buckets of capital allocation.
Bolt-on strategic acquisitions Jim talked about we have the ability to look at even looking at share repurchases and when is it time to start thinking about that at least to offset dilution.
So we have -- we will have options to think about as we get a start to next year and make progress on our deleveraging.
And we now go to P.J.
Juvekar from Citi.
[Technical Difficulty] Hey P.J.
we're going to -- you need to get near the phone.
Your line's bad.
Yes we -- P.J.
we can't hear you.
We go now to Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to delve a little bit into the Additives &amp; Functional Products volumes.
Can you break down a little bit where you're seeing the volume growth if there's any sort of niches within that business that are particularly strong? And then the second thing can we clarify: When you say that you think 2013 will be up at least 10% from 2012 just to be clear on the base is that just off of your report to EPS or off of a pro forma including Solutia for the first part of the year? Yes so let me take it in pieces.
I mean the -- quite a bit of volume strength and the strength in the solvents market right now.
And I assume not just us but you're seeing that with the competitors.
I think we have a bit of advantage because we are so North American based.
And so you can really see the flow-through of our spread and then kind of how we segmented our market and North America is the place to be for that.
So that is a lot of the strength that you see in that area.
In terms of the 10% up I mean basically we're saying it should have -- it's more than 10%.
We're saying it should a 6% in front of it next year.
And so that's our -- that's what we're shooting for.
And that's something -- to get to that greater-than-6% is basically you're off of that 5 30-ish type of base 5 30 5 40 base.
It gets some benefit of having Solutia full year integration benefits but then also you're looking for growth within those businesses.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And there's isn't any real tax swing that's helping there; that's just off of the organic side correct? There'll be some tax benefits.
We'll -- as I mentioned in my comments we'll not be at a 34% 33% tax rate going into next year.
We expect a lower tax rate.
So there'll be some benefit of a lower tax rate.
And we'll go again to P.J.
Juvekar.
Research Division</strong> Can you discuss demand for Solutia's Crystex product given the slowing tire demand? I guess a couple of tire companies have come out and lowered their forecast.
So between the outlook going forward and then quickly is solar a non-core business for you? What was the last part of the question? Is solar non-core...
Research Division</strong> Is solar business -- is that a non-core business? Yes so on Crystex I mentioned before that it's -- I would call it kind of steady right now with a -- at a -- let's say a reduced level if I can put it that way so when I looked year-over-year and sequentially not huge changes.
That's another area we're in the middle of discussions for next year.
I think P.J.
in the long run -- and this may sound a bit conceited but I think our business guys are going to be a little smarter about that marketplace and so we're in negotiations now.
I don't want to add a lot more color but I'm bullish on that business in particular our position and what we can do with our cost position and our scale et cetera long term.
So that's definitely a very good business.
I love the fact that we're across all the tire guys all the regions replacement versus OEM et cetera.
I mean we've got a good exposure there.
I look at the results and think about what's going on in the tire market around the world right now and just you can kind of salivate on what it's going to be like when there's a recovery in the transportation sector in tires.
So again we'll see if we have some more color on it but fantastic business with long-term good forecast for that business.
On the photovoltaic business I guess that's gotten some press from others earlier this week or last week.
It would be really hard for me to say that's core for Eastman.
I think that long term there's value there.
It's hard for me to believe there isn't somebody else who would see more value or that it would be more core for than Eastman.
But we haven't made any decisions on that yet and when we do we'll let you know.
You might remember I did have that report up to Curt so that the P&amp;L guys did not have to spend time and be distracted by what's a fairly small business for us.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then quickly Jim you mentioned that you're going to take inventories down in maybe you're -- like Performance Films.
Is that a fourth quarter comment? Or do you believe that you can run Solutia assets with lower inventories? Yes.
Actually the comment was more around the Specialty Plastics business.
Although -- so to be honest to you between now and year end I'm going to be looking at it across the whole company.
I mean by now you guys are starting to know us.
We somewhat conservative we try and remove all the hurdles road blocks that are hitting our targets.
I very much want to have next year's number have the 6 in front of it.
I want us to be able to run well next year.
I think just with all the uncertainty financial cliff et cetera it's prudent not to walk into year end with excessive inventories.
I think we'll be smart about it.
There are some place on the raws where we actually want to build inventories because I can see what's happening pricing wise.
Finish good inventories; it's usually better if you're lower but you have to pay attention to where you're going to have turnarounds et cetera.
So we're willing to make the sacrifice on operating rates a little bit to watch our inventories but it's not a blanket statement.
What I said earlier was really pertaining more to Specialty Plastics than anything else.
We now go to Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jim I was wondering if you could talk a little more explore this fixation on olefins and spreads.
And it seems a little bit odd to me but can you tell us from the pro forma Eastman what percent of revenues might come from ethylene and propylene derivatives? And then within that subset how many products do you have that are like polyethylene or sort of first-level derivatives where there's pretty quick pass-through versus more negotiated pricing with your customers? Yes.
Let me make a general comment then maybe either Curt or Greg may want to hop in.
It's not a big part of our business anymore.
And with Solutia it's obviously become a smaller piece.
I can't ignore it.
It's been a real tailwind for Eastman so as much as I would rather talk about the longer-term things and our derivative products and where we're growing the company et cetera it is clearly a benefit to have crackers in Texas.
And we laid out which segments share some of that benefits some years better than others.
But again to me it's not the main driver for why you'd want to be in Eastman or what our performance has been and in terms of total shareholder performance which goes all the way back to '09.
But maybe Curt or Greg do you want to just size it for the guys? Yes yes.
The only other thing -- I don't know that we can -- we should size it today but I mean we're going to have an Investor Day in just a few days as we've mentioned and obviously this will be a topic that will be discussed at that day.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe an angle around that: I think you guys mentioned some caution about propane into the winter.
But if I look at the strip price today it's basically a flat line all the way through winter right around the dollar which is just about where propane is today.
So is there enough liquidity in that market where you could derisk your fears about propane -- near-term propane pricing? Yes.
And don't think of it as a fear per se we're just trying to tell you what we think could possibly happen.
It's -- you're pretty safe going into a winter saying propane may go up.
We do do some hedging.
We factored in what we know about the lag in pricing in our expectations when we gave that guidance.
So I'm not looking for people to get real worried about the spread near term.
We're just trying to be prudent in saying hey that would be a logical expectation that propane can move up at the end of the year and you're -- you probably wouldn't have a chance to follow us well with your pricing.
And we're are also -- we are prudent in terms of we do the hedge raws.
We hedge currency we hedge interest rates.
Research Division</strong> You made one comment on the tire markets which I found kind of interesting about needing some enthusiasm there.
But I guess if I look at the replacement markets particularly in Asia where the car park is finally getting to the age where there will be sort of a first round of replacement -- or replacement tires outpacing OEM and volume.
Can you have it down Europe but an up total Eastman because of the growth in the other markets in those kind of end market? I would think so.
I mean we can go back and look at it but I would think so.
I mean remember somehow Europe overall is -- because we did Solutia somehow people think we have huge exposure...
[Technical Difficulty] And Bob do you still got mute? Yes that's Bob's.
Somehow people all of a sudden are more worried about Europe whatever.
I mean it's still like less than 1/4 of our sales for the company overall in Europe.
It is more important for the tire market clearly.
We know the big guys are there in Europe and that's good business for us.
But again you got to think longer term around the globe.
And you're absolutely right to point to Asia and frankly North America South America.
I mean again I'd take a longer-term view and I'm thinking these businesses can perform the way they are right now with the way the world is.
We got some serious upside ahead of us.
And now we go to Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Some of your competitors in filter tow are rationalizing capacity.
Are there any opportunities for volume gains in the context of that? Well I think the biggest impact on volume for us in tow will be when our JV comes up in China.
So you'll see some increase there.
But again take a little bit longer-term view of the fibers market fairly steady market.
You got that growth in Asia offsetting the rest of the world basically.
And I like our position I like having an asset in Korea I like having a JV in China.
I love the cost position that we have here in Kingsport and that we can serve our European customers from what we've got in England in Workington.
It's been a fairly steady market.
I'd say most of the players in the industry have been quite disciplined.
I don't expect any of that to change.
And what's hard for you to see I guess when you look at the numbers is some of the numbers move around inside our business.
Like this past quarter yarn was fairly weak as you might imagine given what's going on in clothing retail et cetera and tow was quite strong so -- but overall I expect fairly steady shares with us picking up a little bit because of the China JV.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Your general working capital management was pretty terrific in the quarter.
Did you drop your operating rates in the third quarter relative to the second to get your inventories all in line? Or did your operating rates really not change very much versus the second quarter? Operating rates did come down third quarter over second quarter by a little bit.
Again it blows my mind that -- I mean we were in the 80s I'll say that much or at least for both the heritage business.
And as you might imagine the Solutia business would have been lower than Eastman's level.
And yet we set record earnings.
And the best I've ever seen this company do operating-rate wise is about 92% 93% in the quarter.
And so again I realize that there's been investments made.
We're living with that kind of fixed cost fixed burn right now but I got the capacity to grow on a lot of areas deliver record earnings not fully utilizing all of my capacity across all the lines.
So that part feels pretty good to me.
To tie the utilization rate to inventories is probably giving us too much credit.
I would say part of it had to do with just the raws coming down.
And I'll let Curt comment.
Actually Jeff I -- just to be -- to make sure we're completely transparent.
So if you look at the cash flow statement on Table 5 you see inventory actually being a source of cash flow.
But it -- just keep in mind purchase accounting: We rolled up inventories $75 million and turned around and sold it.
So $75 million of that benefit that you're seeing is actually because of that inventory turn.
If you take that $75 million off of that inventory and we actually increased inventories in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You're spending quite a lot on developing businesses relative to last year.
Is that turning out to be a good investment or a less good investment? Overall a good investment but it's also a lever Jeff.
I told you before our high priority in having a 6 in front of next year's number.
So we pretty much only work on things that we think have long-term value but we can control the pace on which we work on things.
So as we see the world slow down for example we've talked internally about -- we could slow down on our perennial wood product.
We don't have to keep to spend up at the level it is.
We could slide that out a little bit.
Other areas like our microfibers I think it's going to be full speed ahead.
So yes I think we're spending the money prudently.
We can gate how fast we spend that money based upon the economy and the opportunities we see.
And no bones about it: We got to be disciplined.
We can't fall in love with something if something's not cutting it.
We got to be willing to move on.
But it is good we're trying to set up some long-term growth and you got to spend some money to do that.
But I'll just say it one more time: We can control the rate at which we spend if we need to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly I think Curt said that he had immediately gotten corporate costs out.
And so that means there's call it I don't know $65 million of costs still to come out.
And it looks like you think that you're going to get I don't know another $15 million in the fourth quarter.
If you had to look at your segments where's the $65 million going? How do you allocate the $65 million across your segments? And how do you allocate the $15 million for the fourth quarter? And I got a bunch of VP GMs waiting for Curt to answer this.
Answer this question and you've got to answer it before we set our targets for next year.
Look Jeff I mean that's an art not a science as you well know.
As I mentioned we'll probably be at least a 50% run rate on that $100 million.
So we're probably going to be on a run rate basis around that $50 million.
The corporate cost tends to get shared amongst the group most noticeably the 2 large businesses when Solutia Crystex and the Saflex product lines -- but again what you're doing with that synergies you're also then leveraging the infrastructure you have at Eastman which gets shared by all the group.
But I'd say a good portion of it will be shown up in Advanced Materials and Additives &amp; Functional Products and the rest kind of split amongst the groups as we get more of those synergies next year on the cost.
Research Division</strong> I --- Curt is it -- would it be a simple benchmark just to say revenue would be -- for someone outside the company revenue would be a good way to look at it in terms of a rough share...
If you're talking about just corporate costs revenue would be a rough shares so it's functional...
So Curt for modeling purposes if they just want it by revenue: It's not bad.
Our next question comes from Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> A question about your Additives &amp; Functional Products.
In the release you mentioned some competitor manufacturing outages helped with the volume.
Is this a market share gain? And as those outages come off will you lose that volume or do you think you may hold onto it? Yes I'll let Greg jump on that.
Yes.
So this -- it was really in the solvents product lines and that's really some capacity that was down as a result of hurricane Isaac around August and so obviously that's back up.
But that was really what we were referencing in that reference.
Research Division</strong> And then it seems like Latin America continues to show significant strength for you relative to peers.
And I know obviously you got some filter tow -- or fiber excuse me going through Mexico.
So is it mainly the Mexican business that's driving those results or there's other businesses in there too that are doing well? No.
And I don't think of Fibers as being a big player for us in Latin America really.
So it's more Brazil would be the biggest then Mexico.
There's a time at which that was reversed and now they're -- and then it was 1/3 1/3 and 1/3 for the rest of Latin America.
Now it's probably Brazil is slightly bigger.
I think we have an excellent management team down there.
We get -- probably a better mix of products gets sold in the Latin America.
In general probably more specialties get put down there.
Greg you want to add...
We did a small acquisition down there as well.
Well if you're just talking about growth in revenue yes we did do a plasticizer acquisition in Brazil.
But overall Latin America has been a good market for us.
It's just not as -- I'd love for it to be a bigger percentage of our business.
Got it.
And then finally would you update us on the Tritan expansion? Is that -- are the volumes fully sold out there? And just how the plant is operating.
No not -- I never expect it to be sold out this quickly.
When you got one of those big 30 000-ton lines it usually would take a couple of years to fill out.
We got a little spoiled with the first line that it filled out so quickly.
We had some favorable tailwinds with bisphenol A3 et cetera.
This will be a more traditional fill-out -- in fact maybe even a little slower just given how the economy is going.
I would say overall the acceptance of Tritan is still quite strong.
And when we get to Investors Day you're going to see a slide that shows a bunch of brands that have bought into Tritan and it's -- you're going to love that slide.
We now take a question from Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> When you look ahead to 2013 can you talk about the puts and takes? So you'll have the JV coming up in tow in China.
You talked about some benefit this year in the solvents from the hurricane.
Can you just kind of walk through the laundry list of things that might be pluses and negatives as we look next year year-over-year that happened this year that won't happen next year? And Duffy I can and will and we will do it 10 days from now.
So the story at the Investors Day will be much more about 2013 actually out to 2015 and we'll hit it then.
I -- the guidance I'm giving today is we still expect the 6 in front of the number.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then if you look that CapEx that you've reduced here just recently can you walk through what are those things that you're foregoing at this point? And kind of was it just macro environments that drove those decisions? I think what you have there is a set of business guys and manufacturing teams that are being disciplined with the economic outlook out there.
So I think we're just kind of slowing the pace of some of the investments that we have out there.
There's no one single project at this point that we singled out.
We are taking our time to study and evaluate the Kuantan expansions in Malaysia.
We're thinking through the timing of our expansion such as the Texas City.
But a lot of it is just more economic and just being cautious where -- when we should spend the capital.
We now move to Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Jim if I put the Fibers business on the side as an unchanged segment if you will and consider the other 4 where do you think trailing 12-month margins would compare to normalized levels? So that is to say are there any of these 4 segments that you think are materially above or below what you would consider kind of a prospective normalized level? Let me get Curt or Greg to help me on this.
But just -- I can tell you to start I don't see the macroeconomic environment to be anything like what I would call a normal level.
I do think we're worse than what I hoped the average economy is going to be over the next 10 years.
The States maybe not so.
I mean the States is decent.
It's -- you have to start getting into the segment by segment so to the extent we have businesses that have housing related or transportation related you got to believe that's below normal environment and -- in my mind.
And so then you will look at the individual businesses and how they're performing -- and we've given ranges for different businesses in terms of where we think their earnings will be in terms of margins and then you can compare where we are today.
But on the -- Curt do you want to add where you see things going?.
Yes.
I think the -- we'll get into the margins.
I think the only area that I'd just maybe point out today that is probably below its potential is Advanced Materials.
There's been significant investments made in that business line.
Some of their end markets are pretty soft.
Those investments have been made.
We're ready to get the returns off those investments; we just need a better global environment and market environment for the Advanced Materials segment.
The rest of them are pretty solid and we'll get more of that into the Investor Day.
Yes.
And if you get within the segments I mean you can't -- to try and be balanced solvents is clearly doing quite well right now which is making up for the rest of that segment that is probably below some kind of average trend line.
But I agree with Curt; we can get into it during our Investor Day.
Research Division</strong> And then just wanted to come back to the subject of the capital budget.
Some of your peers across the industry have made pretty wholesale changes.
It sounds from your comments like you'd be making more surgical changes to it but could you comment on what the level of maintenance CapEx would be for the combined company now in case you did need to take a more significant change approach there? Yes I'll let Curt give you that.
But I will say we do like we're on a bit of a different path than some of the other companies.
We did a lot of the heavy lifting over the last 3 years in terms of our portfolio.
I also think that doing the Solutia acquisition gives us a clear path to how we keep growing earnings double digits.
So while others may be out there kind of wondering how they're going to do it and they're not posting record quarters and they're having to kind of scramble and go at it from the cost position we think we've always been pretty disciplined on cost.
I'll just give you one example that I've wanted to squeeze in I'm going to use your question to do it.
But just on things like headcount we use a phrase around here "It's easier not to hire than to fire." And so when we announced the Solutia deal we put a hiring freeze on different functions to free up spots for some of the people to help us get those synergies et cetera.
I mean we just think a little differently.
So we're in growth mode right now.
You've seen that we can be disciplined.
You see how we acted in '08 '09 how we can handle cash not just on the capital line but across working capital our expenses et cetera.
So that has not changed.
We're there if the world turns south on us.
And with that Curt what do we usually say maintenance is? Well it's a -- heritage Eastman we used to talk about a $200 million type of number.
Heritage Solutia is probably a $50 million maybe a little bit more type of number.
So about $250 million is kind of the profile capital maintenance that we require plus or minus 10%.
For our final question we'll go to Bill Young with ChemSpeak.
2 quick things.
Could you please bring us up-to-date on the progress you -- being made on your new additives for tires? And of course the Solutia acquisition seems to transact pretty well.
And secondly maybe a little more transparency if you have it on the Performance Films area.
Yes let me -- I'll start with Performance Films.
I don't know how much more we want to say about the additive for tires other than I think tires are going to be very very good for us.
The -- I think it was already in that line "Baseball is going to be very -- been very very good to me." I think tire is going to be very very good to us.
And in fact let me just hit that now: We're using our technology in a number of ways across a number of markets.
Tires is a place we know from the Eastman side from resins.
Obviously the Solutia product is very big in that marketplace as well.
We're finding ways to work together with customers.
We think we got something pretty good that we'll talk more about on Investor Day in terms of solving some of the problems the tire makers have and that could be quite attractive.
Realize every time you work on something like this though with the product life cycles and how long it takes to get into tires et cetera it's not a quick turn-pop.
So it takes a little while to get -- to create that value.
What was the second part? The...
Performance Films.
Yes this is one I like.
I got to admit I didn't know much about it.
In our part of the world people don't put a lot of films on their cars.
Asia they do.
I think it has some of the best growth prospects in the portfolio.
I think it's an area where we underestimated how much Eastman can help in terms of manufacturing operational excellence type stuff commercial processes.
So this is one I like and I we would -- the guys from Solutia who work in this business already appreciate being part of Eastman in terms of the problem-solving.
Okay.
You're having problems in Asia now; you emphasized that before.
You said it's a big product in Asia the Performance Films? Yes.
Yes and I think that business is dependent upon some new auto sales levels that they come off.
And that business will be impacted but there'll be more innovations and more others we could penetrate.
Okay.
Thanks again everyone for joining us this morning.
A web replay and a replay in downloadable MP3 format will be available on our website beginning approximately 11 AM this morning.
And if you didn't hear we're having an Investor Day on November 5.
We look forward to seeing you there.
If you have not RSVP-d please do so.
Thanks very much.
Again ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
We thank everyone for joining us.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay thank you Tiffany and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Jim Rogers Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Josh Morgan Manager Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover 4 items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual events or results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's fourth quarter and full year 2012 financial results news release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our Form 10-Q for the third quarter 2012 and our Form 10-K to be filed for 2012.
Second earnings per share and operating earnings referenced in this presentation exclude mark-to-market pension and OPEB losses and gains Solutia acquisition-related costs and asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the excluded items are available in our fourth quarter full-year financial results news release which can be found in the Investors section of our website eastman.com.
Third this presentation includes revenues and operating earnings on a pro forma combined basis assuming the acquisition of Solutia had been completed prior to first quarter 2011 that compare post-acquisition results to pre-acquisition pro forma combined results.
More information on pro forma combined results is in our fourth quarter and full-year financial results news release.
Lastly we have posted slides that accompany our remarks for this morning's call on our website in the Presentations and Events section.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Greg.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
I'll begin on Page 3 and the numbers are in.
We had another outstanding year in 2012 the latest in a series of outstanding years reflecting the significant improvements we've made which have resulted in Eastman becoming a portfolio of specialty businesses.
There were numerous accomplishments throughout the year with some of the more significant listed here.
We began the year by announcing the Solutia acquisition and with Solutia we have broadened our global footprint brought together complementary and adjacent technologies and diversified our end markets.
We believe we're in the early stages of seeing the significant value that this acquisition will bring to Eastman.
We also continue to add capacity in key markets where there's a secular trend driving growth and where we have a technology advantage.
A couple of examples from 2012.
As the market continues to switch from plasticizers with phthalates to non-phthalate plasticizers we completed the retrofit of an asset we acquired from Sterling to our proprietary Eastman 168 non-phthalate plasticizer.
Earlier in the year we started our second line of Tritan copolyester and Tritan volume increased almost 25% in 2012 as it penetrates markets including medical and durable goods with a superior value proposition.
And as passengers demand improved features in the cars they drive including noise reduction we increased capacity in Belgium of our advanced Saflex PVB sheet which offers enhanced acoustics performance among other properties.
Going forward we'll continue to meet the needs of our customers with expansions in growing markets.
Moving next to the earnings growth.
With 2012 EPS of $5.38 we've delivered greater than 20% compounded annual growth for EPS over the past 2 years and nearly 40% over the past 3.
And given the strength of our cash generation and the importance we place on returning cash to shareholders in December our board increased our dividend to 15%.
And I remind you this is our third increase in 2 years and we have increased the dividend 36% since the beginning of 2010.
Going next to Slide 4.
As is my normal practice on these calls I'll take just a few minutes to hold us accountable and review some of our key outlook statements for '12.
As previously mentioned we closed the Solutia acquisition in 2012 doing so on July 2 thereby meeting the mid-year commitment we made to you last January when the deal was announced.
Next in October we raised our full year 2012 EPS expectation to a range of $5.30 to $5.40 and then reiterated that expectation at our Investor Day in December.
We came in at the high end of that range and I'll talk more about that in a moment.
We also indicated we expected to generate $1 billion of free cash flow in 2012 and 2013 combined.
With our cash generation in 2012 and our expectations for 2013 we are on track to exceed this projection as Curt will cover in his section.
Lastly we committed to being disciplined in our capital allocation and if you look at how we put capital to work through the year and really over the last several years I think you'll agree we've been disciplined and focused on returns.
Overall 2012 was a terrific year for Eastman and it has positioned us well for profitable growth going forward.
On Slide 5 I'll review the Eastman corporate results for the fourth quarter.
Pro forma combined operating earnings increased significantly fourth quarter 2012 versus fourth quarter 2011 as lower raw material and energy costs more than offset lower selling prices.
The earnings increase was broad-based with almost every segment showing a year-over-year increase and our operating margin increased 370 basis points to 15%.
Fourth quarter EPS was $1.19 an increase of more than 50% over the year-ago quarter.
As many of you know fourth quarter has not always been our best and I'm smiling as I say that but I hope you'll agree that this is a very strong performance in an uncertain global economic environment.
Moving next to the full year results on Slide 6.
Pro forma combined operating earnings increased in 2012 as lower raw material and energy costs more than offset lower selling prices and higher operating costs particularly for labor and maintenance.
As was the case in the fourth quarter the earnings increase was broad-based with almost every segment showing improvement.
In addition our operating margin for the year was 16.3% a 90 basis point improvement over 2011.
Full year EPS was $5.38 on the high end of the range we provided you back in October and a record for Eastman Chemical Company.
This is now the third year in a row that we have delivered double-digit earnings growth the first time in our history as a public company that we've been able to achieve that.
Given our portfolio of specialty businesses we are well-positioned to continue to deliver double-digit earnings growth in the coming years.
Now I'll start on the segments with Slide 7 where I'll begin with Additives &amp; Functional Products.
For both fourth quarter and full year operating earnings increased year-over-year mainly due to lower raw material and energy costs partially offset by lower selling prices which were mostly in the solvent product lines.
Within the segments solvents product lines had the strongest 2012 mainly due to 3 factors.
First we've been taking action over the last several years to leverage our assets with a better product mix and we're starting to see the benefits from these actions.
Second there's high capacity utilization in the U.S.
for the industry as no significant capacity has been added for the last several years.
Key end markets including autos are rebounding and the strong shale gas position in the U.S.
is enabling exports globally.
And third solvents continue to benefit from producing versus purchasing olefins and for solvents this is mainly propylene.
For full year 2013 we expect Additives &amp; Functional Products to have another strong year increasing operating earnings to approximately $410 million driven by solvents product lines continuing to see strong volumes and gradual improvements in the tires market partially offset by higher benzene costs for our anti-degradants product lines.
Moving next to Slide 8 in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
Fourth quarter operating earnings increased slightly as lower raw material and energy costs and an 8% increase in sales volume more than offset lower selling prices.
The higher sales volume was a result of continued substitution of phthalate plasticizers with Eastman's non-phthalate plasticizers.
Full year operating earnings also increased primarily due to a 5% increase in sales volume which was partially offset by higher operating costs including labor and maintenance and costs associated with the start-up of non-phthalate plasticizer assets at our Texas City facility.
Looking forward to 2013 we expect Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers to increase operating earnings to approximately $280 million primarily due to continued growth in the non-phthalate plasticizers.
Advanced Materials is on Slide 9.
Fourth quarter operating earnings declined year-over-year due to lower capacity utilization which was primarily the result of efforts to reduce inventory in the PVB sheet and specialty materials product lines as well as weakened demand in specialty copolyesters.
For the full year operating earnings declined due to lower capacity utilization and additional costs related to expansions.
And as a reminder we increased capacity for Tritan copolyester cellulose triacetate to serve the displays markets Saflex and Flexvue to serve the electronics market during the year.
Looking forward to '13 we expect Advanced Materials to increase operating earnings to approximately $250 million due to increased volume in both specialty materials and performance films higher value product mix in Advanced Interlayers and improvements in fixed cost absorption as we begin to fill out recent expansions.
Next is Fibers on Slide 10.
And once again they delivered an outstanding year.
Earnings in both the fourth quarter and for the full year increased due to higher selling prices with the increased selling prices for the full year partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs particularly for wood pulp and higher operating cost.
Sales volume declined both for the quarter and the year within the acetate yarn product line and was a result of overall weak demand in the apparel market.
Through 2012 the Fiber segment has now grown earnings for 9 consecutive years and we expect 2013 to mark a decade of consecutive earnings growth due to continued strong acetate tow volume and higher selling prices.
I'll finish out the segments on Slide 11 with Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates.
Fourth quarter operating earnings nearly doubled compared with the year-ago period as margins increased due to lower raw material and energy costs particularly for propane more than offsetting lower selling prices.
For the full year operating earnings increased by almost 30% and the story is similar as lower raw material costs more than offset lower prices and higher operating costs.
The operating margin for the year was 14.5% right in the middle of the 13% to 16% range we expect for this segment.
Looking forward to 2013 we expect operating earnings for Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates to be approximately $380 million as olefin spreads are improving so far in 2013 and we also expect improved volume and mix in fluids.
One other item I want to cover here is our thoughts about actions we may take at our facility in Longview Texas including the one cracking unit that's currently shut down.
And we've had a team working on options for a number of months now as they are currently engaged -- I should say and they are currently engaged with multiple external parties that have strong interest in a variety of different options.
And these options include some of the parties potentially building a derivative plant at our Longview site.
While it is difficult to predict timing one common theme as we've been in discussions with third parties is an interest in getting something done the first half of this year an interest we share.
So for now we see value in the options we are discussing and we will provide more details when we can talk about it.
That brings me to Slide 12 and an update on our Perennial Wood growth initiative.
In here we're shifting our strategy for Perennial Wood in 2013 and narrow the focus down as a result reduce the spend for this growth initiative.
The change in strategy is due to the insights we obtained by launching into what was frankly a difficult building and construction market particularly for decking in the first half of 2012.
It's also due to the refining of our technology which gives us an improved coating for our decking product.
In 2013 we will narrow our decking marketing program to the Boston market and by the end of 2013 we'll be in a position to reassess this growth initiative and determine the best path forward.
We remain confident in the value proposition of our Perennial Wood product and believe that the additional market understanding that we'll gain in 2013 will position us to make the best decision for this initiative by the end of the year.
I'll end on Slide 13 with our outlook for 2013.
As I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks 2012 was the latest in a series of strong years for Eastman Chemical Company and we're confident that in 2013 we will build on this strength.
Our world-class technology platforms and leading positions in attractive end markets position us well to continue to deliver consistent superior value.
And we enter 2013 with a number of tailwinds including excellent progress on the integration of Solutia expansions capital expansions serving customers in growing end markets and the increased benefit of producing versus purchasing olefins.
We also know global economic uncertainty continues and Curt will speak more to the economic assumptions that underlie our expectations.
When we put this all together the result is that we are increasing our 2013 guidance to a range of $6.30 to $6.40 which would be growth of between 17% and 19% over 2012.
This would mean that we would have grown EPS from about $2 in 2009 to well over $6 in 2013 and I think with a clear path to EPS of approximately $8 in 2015.
Now with that I'll turn it over to Curt.
Okay.
Jim thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I'll begin on Slide 15 by reviewing some financial highlights for 2012.
Cash from operations in 2012 was $1.1 billion.
This is well above our 2011 total of $625 million and is built off of a solid base of earnings good discipline with working capital and the expected use of NOLs acquired from Solutia of approximately $150 million in the year.
Within these free cash flows we spent $465 million in capital expenditures which was slightly more than our guidance earlier of $450 million.
We also paid dividends of $192 million which includes the $45 million of accelerated dividend payments the board authorized to pay stockholders on December 31.
With the strong free cash flow generation we paid a total of $250 million on the $1.2 billion acquisition term loan and ended the year with $249 million in cash.
Thus our net debt at the end of 2012 was $4.5 billion.
Next I'll mention several items that impacted our fourth quarter results and that are excluded from our non-GAAP results.
During fourth quarter 2012 Eastman recognized a mark-to-market loss for pension and other postretirement benefit plans of $276 million.
This was due to a reduction in the company's assumed weighted average discount rate versus prior year partially offset by an increase in the pension asset values.
In addition we also had asset impairment and restructuring charges of $83 million primarily related to 4 items.
First was termination of an operating agreement with a third-party site in Brazil and related facility closure costs.
This site produces Santoflex anti-degradants and Saflex PVB resin.
We will continue to meet customer demand with our other global manufacturing sites.
Second was discontinuance of the company's project to modify existing coal-based utility assets in order to meet recently enacted environmental regulations and instead changing 50% of our furnace capacity to be fueled with natural gas.
Third was inventory and other costs related to the change in strategy for Perennial Wood that Jim just covered earlier.
And lastly severance related to the acquisition and integration of Solutia.
Finally we had costs of $11 million related to the Solutia acquisition in the form of integration and costs related to the step-up of inventory.
Moving next to Slide 16 and our key assumptions for 2013 to help you with your models.
Consistent with the outlook discussed at our December 2012 Investor Day we expect global GDP in 2013 to be slightly above 2% with the U.S.
staying steady and coming in around 2% Europe close to 0 for the full year and China near 8%.
For the tax rate we expect our 2013 rate to be approximately 31.5% with the exception of first quarter where we will see a $10 million benefit from several business tax credits recently extended by the Congress that will bring our net rate to slightly below 31% all in for 2013.
We also expect to see a decrease in other corporate costs of $25 million in 2013 primarily to reduce spend in Perennial Wood and we expect the fully diluted share count to be approximately 157 million shares for the year.
Moving next to Slide 17 where I'd like to give you some sense of how Eastman is working hard on multiple fronts to deliver consistent year-over-year earnings growth.
Jim highlighted the remarkable earnings improvement the company has made the last several years.
Our evolution to a portfolio of specialty businesses will significantly contribute to more consistent earnings growth.
We believe this is the key attribute to being valued as a specialty chemical company.
We recognize within our portfolio there are some product lines that are more commodity-like in nature and other factors that could impact our ability to contribute to more consistent earnings growth.
Thus we have taken additional actions.
First and foremost our heritage businesses have worked hard the last 5-plus years improving our pricing systems contracting strategies and commercial capabilities.
This ensures we are able to work with our customers to deliver on our value proposition.
If products are less differentiated we try to tie pricing to underlying raw materials.
We enter into multiple-year agreements to help lift the trough while reducing the upside et cetera.
We are bringing these same disciplines to enhance the practices of our recently acquired businesses.
In addition we have an ongoing hedging program that we will use to help our businesses manage raw material volatility and to allow time for prices to adjust.
We will in some limited cases also hedge the margins on some of our bulk olefin sales.
For example we have locked in approximately 50% of our bulk ethylene sales at margins similar to 2012.
We will also hedge currencies on a short-term tactical basis and in some cases longer-term strategic basis with the goal to remove volatility in earnings due to currencies.
You can see this at work with our 2012 revenues which declined by just over 1% due to exchange rate movements.
And we are continuously working to improve productivity both to reduce our overall costs but also to identify opportunities to reduce volatility in earnings and cash flows.
I highlight this today just to reemphasize the focus of the men and women at Eastman is to deliver consistent year-over-year earnings growth.
Next moving to Slide 18 and an update on Solutia integration.
As the slide indicates we remain well on track with integration efforts.
For the cost synergies we closed 2012 at greater than $50 million on a run-rate basis and we have every expectation that number will exceed $100 million on a run-rate basis by the end of 2013.
On tax synergies we are well on our way to use more than half of the $1.3 billion of NOLs starting the second half of 2012 and extending through the end of 2014.
We have also put in place initial tax structures to lower the effective tax rate and we will continue to pursue other opportunities for further improvement.
Not included on this slide but worth noting are the revenue synergies.
While these are no -- longer term in nature and more difficult to quantify at this point I believe we have upside in this category and that we'll further strengthen this value -- this will further strengthen the value of this transaction.
As I've mentioned before we have successfully retained key talent.
For example we've retained 97% of critical key talent identified and we continue to be impressed with the capabilities our new employees are bringing to the Eastman team.
Finally a functional consolidation remains on track with the system integrations that are currently under way.
On Slide 19 I'll walk you through our current estimate for free cash flow.
We currently project operating cash flows of roughly $1.3 billion in 2013.
This is due to continued strength in earnings.
This cash flow will also be impacted by cash outflows related to increased working capital as a result of increased sales and larger geographic footprint funding of balance sheet accruals such as the annual environmental funding of roughly $35 million for legacy solution sites and restructuring accruals such as that related to the termination of the Brazilian operating agreement.
We will have some additional Solutia restructuring and integration costs that are excluded from our earnings projections but will impact our operating cash flows and finally the level of contributions to our U.S.
defined benefit plans which is currently estimated to be approximately $120 million.
We expect capital expenditures to be approximately $525 million this year.
This capital includes both growth capital and infrastructure capital.
In 2013 we expect an increase in infrastructure capital as we integrate recently acquired sites initiate the change with coal-based furnaces in Kingsport and other needs.
In regards to our Kingsport facility we currently use coal-based furnaces to provide electricity and steam generation for this site.
As we evaluated both operating and capital costs to maintain this furnaces we have elected to convert 50% of our capacity to  natural gas.
We have signed an agreement with Spectra Energy to expand their natural gas pipeline to our site.
The capital required for this conversion is approximately $90 million and is expected to be completed in 2016.
This capital cost is significantly lower than what would have been required to modify the underlying coal-based furnaces to meet changing regulations.
I would like you to note this has no impact on our coal gasification process and Eastman will continue to use coal in the future as both an energy source and a raw material.
Our capital expenditures will be weighted more towards the second half of the year due to normal operational trends as well as the timing of our key growth projects such as the planned Crystex and PVB resin expansions in Malaysia.
Putting this all together we expect free cash flow generation to be between $600 million and $650 million in 2013 with the midpoint of this range representing a growth rate of greater than 30% over 2012 levels.
Just to close on Slide 20 I'll remind you of our disciplined approach to capital allocation.
Already mentioned we expect capital expenditures of $525 million which is similar quite honestly to 2012 when you factor in the $51 million Solutia spent prior to the close of the acquisition.
This reflects our commitment to continue to pursue attractive organic growth projects across our portfolio.
On the debt side we paid down $250 million of the $1.2 billion acquisition term loan in 2012 and expect to pay down a significant portion of the remaining balance in 2013.
This remains a priority for cash in 2013.
On joint ventures and acquisitions we will be progressing with our 2 announced joint ventures: the acetate total joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation expected to be online mid-2013 and the Regalite hydrogenated hydrocarbon resin JV with Sinopec expected online in 2014.
In addition we will continue to evaluate opportunities for strategic bolt-ons.
Lastly we expect to continue returning cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases in order to offset dilution.
During 2013 we will probably be a little bit behind offsetting current and expected dilution but we should be in a position to offset dilution and then some by the end of the year and going into 2014.
With that thank you for your interest in Eastman Chemical Company and I'll turn it back over to Greg.
Okay thanks Curt.
Tiffany this concludes our prepared remarks and we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Duffy Fischer of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The question I had we've had pretty steep propylene pop in January and people are thinking there's going to be another move in February.
I guess for you guys can you talk about the key propylene derivatives and how you think those markets will pass on that price increase? I mean where you will be able to get it quickest and how long that lag will be? Sure Duffy and it's one of those things where as we move to more of a specialty I would have thought we'd be spending less and less time on this.
On the other hand I must admit I'm enjoying the exposure we have at this time because you're right.
Fourth quarter we got helped with propane particularly staying down and then this quarter it looks like we're going to get helped with the other end of the spread with propylene moving up.
And by the way we're just in January.
So I try not to get too carried away about what the spread's going to do this year.
One of the key places you see it is in our solvents business the propylene that shows up in the functional products the Additives &amp; Functional Products segment.
I guess as I look at it there's a range.
The other place would be in our intermediates business.
But as I look at it it's a range of how far downstream you are how much transparency the customers have.
Certainly I think we're much better at pricing and moving things along quickly.
It'll depend again by how much it's specialty how much it's commodity but we'll definitely see the effects of this move in propylene in those 2 segments in the first quarter.
And some will then flow over into the second quarter because of the lag.
But it's hard to break out just do -- would you average in 1 month 2 months 3 months.
In the past it's been as long as 3 months.
I think we're much faster than that now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the changeover at Kingsport to gas why half -- I mean it seems like kind of half pregnant.
If it made sense why not go 100%? Or was it -- that was just enough to get you over the hurdle what you needed to do regulatory-wise? So you're one of those poker players who always goes all-in on every hand? Research Division</strong> Well unfortunately sometimes wrongly.
No I mean we try and be judicious.
We -- one of the main drivers was the whole regulatory environment not only what we're facing with Boiler MACT and something called BART but just trying to look down the road a few years as to where do we think this country is going.
In the past we've always looked at it and coal was always so advantaged that you just swallowed hard and paid all the regulatory changes you had to make paid for all those changes.
Now with the outlook for natural gas and as compared to Central Appalachian coal it's really a push on the economics.
So then you go to the capital cost and Curt gave it to you $90 million compared to something that was probably a couple of hundred million north of that for getting coal in compliance.
So you knew you were going to do something.
Then the issue is how much do you do.
This amount allows us to avoid that capital meets all our regulatory requirements and then some.
Plus frankly we tend to like the idea of being -- for our energy needs here at our major site half gas half coal.
We think that kind of plays to what we talk about so many other places in terms of being diversified and trying to smooth out earnings.
So net-net a good result.
It's a shame in a way we had to eat I think $17 million but we couldn't just sit on our hands earlier.
We had to get going on the engineering to be in compliance to meet the timeline.
And then of course the world for shale gas just moved gas prices moved and we got a much better alternative so we had to scrap the plans to change our boilers over.
We'll take our next question from Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give us a little more granularity on what's going on in 2 of the key markets from the Solutia acquisition maybe on a regionalized basis for both auto and tires.
We can.
Frankly there's some other players out there who have been out ahead of us who have done a pretty good breakdown guys who are directly in that market and almost totally dependent on that market you might say but I don't think you're going to get any new insights from us.
But as we look at tires around the world obviously the States is coming back.
Europe is still very much down negative again this year in '13 and Asia seems to be improving.
One distinction I'll draw so that you don't just think about auto builds is realize we're more dependent on frankly commercial activity because of the truck tires being more important to us than the car tires.
So that's one comment I can probably make globally is I think we're still at a lower level of commercial activity.
And so when I think about a business like Crystex to me it just seems like such a great business and we're not getting to see it shine.
So I was trying to think of an analogy.
It's like having this champion surfer and right now we just have 2- and 3-foot waves and we keep waiting for the big waves to come so we can see what this businesses can really do.
Plus we've got a Kuantan expansion that we'll probably get going on later this year that's going to make some fairly dramatic changes in their cost position in terms of their fixed costs their variable costs.
We'll be able to go back and retrofit existing sites for that.
So while I think we've got a fantastic business the markets are not allowing us to show just how good that is.
What was the other -- was there something else besides tires you wanted to hear about? Research Division</strong> Just autos generally but my suspicion is you'll give me the same response.
So let me ask a different question if I might which is in the context of your 2% global GDP can you give us a sense of where you see volume growth across the division? Yes I mean what you want to drive is volume growth in everything except maybe Fibers.
You won't see it until they get their JV on because they're running so hard right now.
I mean just volume in general Bob.
I wish we'd had a little more this past year frankly but there was some things that slowed us down.
And net-net I can't complain too much.
I mean I think we had a really good year.
We need to get the volume growth going in the future.
Most of it will hinge upon capacity additions so getting more hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins getting that thing going in China will be fairly significant for us filling out the lines we've already built like Tritan and CTA and we'll get volume growth and mix change with the acoustic interlayers because that's a great product and that ought to be growing nicely.
Would you want to add anything Greg? [indiscernible] Yes that's -- we've been talking about that.
That one I think I can count on for some time to come is the switch on the plasticizer side.
Realize too that we got a couple of competitors out there.
We didn't put it in our prepared remarks but SK came on with some copoly volume this past year.
Kalama came on with some volume in the benzoate plasticizer arena and so we're trying to be smart about how we make pricing volume choices this past year to preserve as much shareholder value as they go to fill up some of those expansions.
But for example I think Specialty Plastics business which we don't break out anymore but they came under some pressure this year because of what I just said about SK and they wanted to work down some inventories at year end.
I expect that Specialty Plastics business to have -- get back to setting a record in 2013 again for earnings so -- and that will demand some volume growth so things like Tritan will have to continue to grow which it will.
We'll take our next call from David Begleiter from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jim the entire -- was the entire guidance increase versus December was that due -- just due to the propane-propylene spread being wider earlier in the year? It was due to the fact that I didn't think you guys would let me stay where we were.
I mean I'm only 1 month into the year.
So I got to tell you we felt a little sheepish having just stood in front of all of you in December and then we come out 6 weeks later or whatever and we said "Hey we're probably going to do a little better than we told you." But yes that was the major change I could point to is just propylene moving up and we're going to get it in price.
I mean we deserve it and that's what's going to happen and so...
And Jim if I could add also we're probably showing a little bit more decline in the corporate other spending because of the Perennial Wood adjustment than we were probably thinking back in December.
That's true and -- but a lot of times people only want to add in the positives and there's things going the other way.
So I got benzene and paraxylene -- the same way propylene is really good not as big an impact but benzene and paraxylene hurting us.
So we try to pull it all together and give you our best thoughts just like we did back in December on how we're going to end the year.
Research Division</strong> And Jim what were the Perennial Wood losses or costs in 2012? That was -- I'll let Curt give you the specifics but just on Perennial Wood I mean this is still something I like.
We just got to be smart about it and we said our top priority was hitting the earnings goals and so I'm not going to do anything that -- or say it another way I'm going to give myself as many cushions as possible to have as high a probability as possible of hitting the earnings targets all the way out to 2015.
So we like the product.
We got to work on the economics of the product which includes more than just decking.
It gets to what else can you do with the wood can you -- how do you approach porch flooring and potentially siding furniture trim all the other things you can do with a good product like this and make sure the economics work.
But as for the actual change and write-down Curt? Yes David if you look at that $126 million of other corporate costs which as you know is corporate R&amp;D programs et cetera Perennial Wood is roughly $50 million of that number.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly Jim just on Crystex you mentioned some competitive intensity back in the meeting in December so maybe some lost share.
With the Kuantan expansion and lower variable costs fixed costs could you at least maintain if not grow your share in Crystex this year and going forward? Yes we'll see.
I mean my top priority is in that business is the value preservation the setting ourselves up nicely such that when Kuantan comes online and we have that lower cost we're smart about our position in the marketplace because we're the big guy in the marketplace.
And we'll have not only lower cost but we're probably going to have some additional functionality with our product too which will be another way of separating our products out from the also-ran guys.
So when it comes to share sometimes you're willing to make trade-offs to make sure you make the right pricing decisions.
Long term I feel like when this industry has to run hard we'll probably pick up share during that time.
So we'll just see.
We need a little help though.
We need a little help from the marketplace.
We need a little more commercial activity a little more truck tires being sold.
We'll take our next question from Mr.
Andrew Cash of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I heard your favorable forecast for Advanced Materials for '13.
So I'm just curious if you look at the PVB business are contract negotiations complete there for this year? And if so in what quarter would you expect the PVB volume to start increasing? Yes it's a good question.
I don't know.
I mean you identify the business that has the steepest hill to climb over the next year as well they should.
I was pleased with where we got to on the contracting for the interlayers business I think Mark Costa and his team did a great job there.
They told me upfront it was probably a 2-year process to get back to where you want to be in terms of having the right mix with your customers in regions et cetera.
I do think the acoustic product's going to be a big help in terms of improving the mix which helps your margins maybe also get you the -- get you back on the volume growth side.
Biggest factor is probably outside of my control and that probably gets back to just general economic activity.
So I don't want to try and pick out a quarter but I like the direction we're going.
As you look at that segment though don't forget about the copoly business the Specialty Plastics business and like I said they took it in the -- how do I want to say this they took a P&amp;L hit.
They took a bit of a P&amp;L hit last year purposely working down inventories the right thing to do.
The inventories had gotten a little high and they did a lot of that in the fourth quarter.
That can be a pretty powerful contributor as that business comes back strong this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
Just to follow up going back to the propane could you just put in ballpark figures for us the increase in Eastman's earnings in 2012 as related to the spread between propane and the price of the derivatives? Yes and you're picking propane but I guess you mean propane ethane in general or do -- are you really...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes the whole complex yes.
Well we're probably not going to give you the exact number.
I can tell you it was significant and what we say in our statements Curt is we try and cap it out for people...
Yes it's less than 20% of our total EBIT.
EBIT yes less than 20% of EBIT but it was significant.
It was a nice move in our direction.
We'll take our next question from Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Question on Advanced Materials again.
I mean when you look across the forecast you guys have for 2015 and in margin targets it's certainly the one that has the longest bridge to get there the 14%.
So what really needs to happen to make sure you can meet this target? And how much relies on macro versus controllable factors and versus your 3 big products: PVB Tritan and CTA? Yes so I'll make a couple of comments.
Greg may want to chime in too because he's sitting over here looking at me like he's got a better answer than I do.
But I mean like I said on the last question I mean they got a steep hill to climb.
They're very confident by the way though.
I mean when you look at the EBITDA percentage that they have to grow it's nowhere near the same.
Because they got a pretty big installed base and they got capacity they can fill out that we've added.
And so you ought to see a faster ramp-up as they fill up something like the CTA line et cetera the interlayer capacity we had.
And it's also a place where in particular the interlayers where Europe has held them down below what I would say is a normal -- kind of normally how that business should look.
So partly you're looking for Europe to come back out of the doldrums and partly you're looking to fill up capacity you've already built and so they should be levered to faster growth in the EBIT line than perhaps some of the other businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And back on the Specialty Plastics I know that you mentioned the SK expansion but it seems like there has been lower utilization and weak demand all year.
Is there any type of share shifts? I mean in the past copolyester was kind of the tween-er between acrylics and polycarbonate.
Has any -- has there been any kind of end product share shift between those two that might also be affecting demand on the copolyester side? Well I'd say -- we said we thought demand was off some.
So I had a little bit of double -- really a triple whammy.
I had a competitor filling up some capacity.
We had probably soft end-market demand although I wouldn't say really losing anything to polycarbonate for sure because polycarbonate of course is struggling with that headwind of high benzene costs.
And then we had intentional working down the inventories which that was not insignificant.
That had a pretty good P&amp;L impact.
So I think copoly with Tritan in particular Tritan's taking share from other competitors other plastics.
I don't know Greg what would you -- anything you want to add to that? Nope nope.
I think that's it.
I mean the packaging...
Did I scare you off from saying something? I'd say the packaging market has been soft for a while.
Yes that's true.
That's affecting not just copolyester but a lot of different products.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just finally is -- acetate yarn has had some issues in the past year.
Obviously your tow is doing fantastic and you've got expansions there.
Is there a point when acetate yarn is no longer core for you? Or is there anything there that in terms of the integration of your facilities that even if you might not want to be in the business anymore it's going to be hard to disaggregate it? Well others have clearly exited.
So it's a logical question.
I wouldn't necessarily use the word core but it sure helps us run our stream better.
I mean so could we move from yarn to just tow? Yes we could.
But right now the economics are in favor of us staying in the yarn market.
I mean it's a positive cash contributor even -- in fact it's never been a negative cash.
It's always been positive cash and absorbs cost helps us run the lines full and even when the EFO on that business is negative.
The other thing I'd say is it's really just not that big anymore.
So if I was sitting outside the company I wouldn't spend a lot of time on yarn.
We feel compelled to talk about it because it can move things at the margins but of course the big horse is the tow and then the acetyl intermediates the flake that we sell.
We'll take our next question from Mr.
Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First could you just give us a little bit of update on the contracts with Saflex and Crystex? I know in particular you were talking back in December about trying to get some improvements in the structure of that going into '13.
So just first on that.
And then secondly -- why don't we go with that first? Yes.
Yes and I'll only give you oh so much color other than to say I'm pleased which hopefully that carries some weight.
It is I realize a 2-year process.
I would say we've done a better job than has been done in the past of segmenting out the really key customers the ones that are important to us working with them where do they see value added where should be thinking multi-year how should we be thinking about pricing structure with those customers and I can tell you I'm pleased.
I mean Mark Costa has been personally involved out there with some of this and we're building relationships quickly.
We're approaching it differently perhaps than they did in the past in terms of not just working with the purchasing department but really wanting to be in there with technology and the whole gestalt if I could so -- and we try and make smart trade-offs between volume and price and you don't chase volume in Asia just because you want to say you're growing in Asia.
You take volume in Asia when you can make money there.
And we respect all our customers all regions of the world but we know where our bread is buttered.
And that's what this past contracting strategy reflects and that's true for -- I guess I mainly had Saflex in mind once I was talking but Crystex would be something similar.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a sort of separate follow-up you mentioned SAP integration in the prepared remarks and you might have talked about this in the past I just don't remember.
But can you remind us which -- either you had SAP or Solutia had it or neither of you had it or what's the process that you're doing? And I'm going to let Curt comment on that.
I just want to make a general comment about integration and then I'll let Curt talk about it because Curt's one of the guys driving it.
I would have guessed that by now I would have had some kind of disappointment in the integration.
I mean I've been around a while and to do an acquisition this size usually something doesn't go the way you want.
So I knock on wood as I say it but it's -- this has been a good one.
This one's going the right way.
We're hitting our milestones.
We're hitting -- we're exceeding our costs and revenue synergy goals and so I like what we see.
On SAP Curt? Yes if you look at just briefly on SAP they had -- part of their shop was on SAP so we're migrating that over.
That would be in Advanced Interlayers.
Another part of their portfolio which are the Tech Specialties was -- Solutia was even under a path of getting ready to convert that over to SAP and that is one we will continue.
Those are the 2 big horses we convert in 2013.
And we're an SAP house...
And we're an SAP house.
Single-instance global SAP house.
Everything's on SAP.
A lot of good talent on both sides of the house on SAP and we know how to get this done.
We'll take our next call from Mr.
Chris Nocella RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Oxo alcohol prices have been strong in Asia recently and I saw you guys put an announcement out as well.
Is this just a push-through of propylene? Or are you guys seeing particular strength here? No.
There is strength in the markets that picked up in the fourth quarter.
And of course we got an operation in Singapore and that's been doing better.
That had one of its better fourth quarters in some time the way I remember it.
So there's definitely strength in that market as well as you have the wind of -- tailwind this time of what's going on with propylene.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and there's also been some talk amongst your peers over the last couple of days about improvement in China.
You guys had a nice 6% to 7% growth in that region the last couple of quarters.
Are you seeing a pickup kind of as we're sitting here today in that business? Or is it just trending along the same trajectory? No I think you'd have to say it's picked up.
I mean I don't have January results.
What I've got so far as I've looked at kind of how the year's kicking off with volumes.
And one there's pretty much an uptick everywhere except maybe the adhesives business; but two I'd say Asia is definitely picking up.
We will take our next question from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Jim Curt your margins in Additives &amp; Functional Products have held up quite well despite the weak tire demand that you talked about.
So are Crystex margins holding up? Or are coatings margins coming in to help out with the raw material benefit that they have? Both but more the latter.
This is where we talk about the solvents as well as some of the old pieces of CASPI some of the additives from CASPI and it's quite quite strong right now.
You know our North American presence is good and what you're going to see more of not just us you're going to see more of is with this -- with what's going on with natural gas in this country you're going to see products being globally competitive that in the past logistics might have held you back and now you're going to be shipping some of the stuff around the world.
Research Division</strong> Okay and can you just make a comment on the Crystex margins please? I guess I would say more holding their own holding steady is probably the best way to think about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a couple of things on ethylene.
You mentioned about the restart of the cracker and the derivative unit at Longview.
At today's raw material prices can you just ballpark the impact? Of if you restarted the cracker? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes hard to do because what we're talking to people about is that you wouldn't just the run the cracker and then sell the output.
You would probably -- I think I had it in my prepared remarks you can probably put something additional on our site and take it to a derivative.
But look at it this way we're running now on 3 crackers.
Cracker 4 is the larger of the 2.
This would be equivalent to 1 of the 2 smaller crackers.
I don't know we can --- you can probably back into the volume impact of a cracker.
It's about 300 million pounds.
300 million pounds and so then you can do your math P.J.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then Curt did you say that you locked in ethylene sales at 2012 margins and the margins...
We have.
Well let me just make sure we break it -- if you think about our total ethylene that we produce about half of which we consume and put down into our derivatives that remaining half is what we call bulk ethylene and about 50% of that we have locked in at 2012 spreads.
Research Division</strong> No my point was 2012 margins were great but in 2013 here margins have gone up even higher so you wouldn't see that benefit? For that -- well a couple of comments first of all they've been -- they were great in December and early January they've pulled back a little bit since.
But yes the comment's going to be of that 50% of bulk ethylene sales we've locked it in and we won't see the upside or the downside [indiscernible].
And I'll take your guarantee that they're going to stay strong the rest of the year.
I really appreciate that.
We'll take our next question from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hey Jim I lost some money today.
I bet my team that the CEO spotlight was going to feature Greg for running a successful Investor Day and in fact you stopped it altogether.
Did anybody at Eastman deserve the CEO spotlight? I thought about that and then what I've been told is our prepared remarks already go long to the point that you guys don't always get all your questions in.
So honestly if I was going to do it today I would have done it on the integration team.
So I'll do a 3-second: Integration team doing an excellent job by Curt and Mark and seriously I am pleased with that.
That is just going about as good as you could expect.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well regardless I lost money anyway since you didn't highlight Greg.
Curt I find it rather curious that you talked about on track to exceed $1 billion in free cash flow yet you're going to fall behind in terms of offsetting dilution on the share count and you're going to get to the share buybacks kind of later in the year.
Can you expand upon that? Yes what I mean by that is just simply with some of the dilution that occurred in the fourth quarter probably expect some additional dilution the start of the year the timing is such that our buyback as you've heard me talk before is I got to make a little more progress on the deleveraging before we start fully doing all those purchases.
So it's just a matter of timing and how the math works on the '13 calculation.
But by the end of the year we'll be there and then some.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right okay fine.
And then you also talked about you think that there's upside in terms of Solutia revenue synergies.
Can you expand upon that? Yes if I look at the synergies the ballpark of $100 million off of their original revenue base is about 5% of revenues -- or 5% of revenue.
So when we look at the project listing that this integration team is managing there's different levels of probability.
So when we talk about the 5% of revenue the $100 million we're highly confident in that number.
As you go down the level of probability of success for the remainder is it possible we can get to 6% of revenue? Yes.
Is there a chance we can get to 7% of revenue? Possibly.
He was talking about revenue synergy too though.
Oh you're talking about revenue synergy? I'm sorry I thought he was percentage.
The revenue side I would say we're off to some good start on the commercial practices.
I think we need a little more time on the longer-term aspects of the programs that we've talked about the tires et cetera.
But if I look at commercial activities and practices I think there's some real benefits we're already starting to see in our numbers and there's more to come.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then can you give us an update on your thinking regarding the photovoltaics business? Yes honestly I haven't thought a whole lot about that one lately because as you know when we divvied up the businesses I gave that one to Curt.
So Curt what's your...
Right now photovoltaics is a tough marketplace.
We're continuing to evaluate some options and we're still working through those options but either way it's not a material item to Eastman but we're working through the strategic alternatives.
LLC Research Division</strong> And any thought on -- as to when we might get a go no-go keep or not keep type of decision? I would say within the next quarter or 2 we're going to have some...
Yes we're not going to be talking about this forever Frank.
We'll take our final question from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a very quick one then are you seeing any areas or regions where they're -- you're seeing demand destruction in response to attempted price increases? I would say I review pricing every month and I would say this is in most areas one of the better pricing environments finally than we've seen in a while.
So part of that is just thinking about the things that are propylene-based.
Part of it is some areas that are tight such that customers are more concerned about making sure they have surety of supply than they are the last penny.
Anything doing with packaging is still tough so some of the adhesives.
Parts of the adhesives is still tough.
Other parts the hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins still a tight market.
So if I had to make a general comment it wouldn't be so much regionally.
Europe would probably be the toughest region and I would guess packaging would be the end market that would be the toughest.
Okay thanks again everyone for joining us this morning.
A web replay and a replay in downloadable MP3 format will be available on our website beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m.
this morning.
Thanks for your interest in Eastman.
Have a great day.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on the Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay thank you Michael.
And good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Jim Rogers Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Senior Vice President and CFO; and Josh Morgan Manager Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover 4 items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual events or results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's first quarter 2013 financial results news release and in our filings with the SEC including the Form 10-K filed for 2012 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for first quarter 2013.
Second earnings per share and operating earnings referenced in this presentation include Solutia acquisition-related costs and charges.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the excluded items are available in our first quarter financial results news release which can be found at eastman.com in the Investors section.
Projections of future earnings in the presentation exclude mark-to-market pension and OPEB losses and gains Solutia integration costs and any asset impairments and restructuring charges.
Third this presentation includes revenues and operating earnings on a pro forma combined basis assuming the acquisition of Solutia had been completed prior to first quarter 2012 that compare post-acquisition results to pre-acquisition pro forma combined results.
More information on pro forma combined results is in our first quarter 2013 financial results news release.
And lastly we've posted slides that accompany our remarks for this morning's call on our website in the Presentations and Events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Greg.
And good morning everyone.
Let's go over to Slide 3.
As is my normal practice on these calls I'll take just a moment upfront to provide an update on our most recent outlook statements.
First of all we continue to make good progress on the Solutia integration.
Curt will provide you with more color in his section but I just want to reiterate how pleased I am with how the integration is going and how well these businesses and our cultures are coming together to create value.
Next in February we raised our full year 2013 EPS expectation to a range of $6.30 to $6.40 which would be a 17% and 19% growth rate over 2012.
And today we're reaffirming that guidance as on balance our portfolio of businesses continues to perform well despite an uncertain economic environment.
We also said we expected to generate between $600 million and $650 million of free cash flow in 2013 and we're right on track to achieve that target.
Finally we committed to remain disciplined in our capital allocation.
And if you look at how we've put capital to work this quarter and really look at our track record over the last few years I hope you would agree that we have remained disciplined and focused on the returns.
On Slide 4 I'm reviewing the Eastman corporate results.
Operating earnings increased first quarter 2013 versus first quarter 2012 with lower raw material and energy costs more than offset lower selling prices.
For example propane prices declined over 30% year-over-year while on a corporate basis total corporate selling prices declined by 1%.
Almost all segments had higher year-over-year earnings with the largest increases being in Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates and Fibers.
And our operating margin increased to 17.5% almost a 200 basis point improvement year-over-year.
So first quarter EPS was $1.62 an increase of almost 1/3 compared with the year-ago quarter.
First quarter earnings were a strong start to the year in what remains a difficult and unpredictable global economic environment.
On Slide 5 I'll highlight our results by geographic region.
As you can see the U.S.
and Canada remains our largest region on a percent of revenue basis with Asia Pac a strong second and then Europe and Latin America.
Revenue in North America was down about 5% but this was a typical price/raw story.
As I mentioned earlier propane down over 30% year-over-year in the quarter and this resulted in some lower prices for derivatives in the U.S.
Asia Pacific revenue was up 11% and the increase was a combination of both volume and price.
There was particular strength in our Fibers Advanced Materials and Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates segments with the SFI improvement coming against an easier comp in first quarter 2012.
Revenue in Europe was down 3% and given the state of their economy this was solid performance in my opinion.
And Latin America revenue was down $4 million or about 3% as well.
We continue to see our geographic diversity as a source of strength for our portfolio and our first quarter results are indicative of that.
Moving next to the segments in the Slide 6 where I'll begin with Additives &amp; Functional Products.
Sales revenue increased primarily due to higher sales volume.
This was particularly true for solvents as we are benefiting from a strengthening U.S.
building and construction market.
For tire additives both in soluble sulfurs and anti-degradants volume was relatively flat.
And given our estimate that global tire market demand was about flat year-over-year in the first quarter we feel good about holding our share here.
And this positions us well for when the market inevitably begins to restock inventories as tires need to be replaced.
I'd also add for the anti-degradants business that we are in the process of implementing a price increase to try and recover some of the margin loss to significantly higher benzene costs.
Operating earnings for the segment increased slightly as lower raw material and energy costs and the higher sales volume were partially offset by lower selling prices.
We also had lower capacity utilization in the first quarter of 2013 for rubber additives as back in the first quarter of 2012 the business was preparing for expected outages and increases in demand.
So it was a tough comp for rubber additives.
The operating margin for the quarter remained at just under 24%.
And looking at the full year we continue to expect operating earnings of approximately $410 million which would be a strong result in a challenging economic environment.
So overall I'd say Bradwick [ph] and his team are doing an excellent job with this segment.
Moving next to Slide 7 in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
First quarter results were disappointing in this segment due to several factors.
For adhesive resin product lines unfavorable trends in both demand and supply impacted our results.
On the demand side the consumables market particularly packaging continues to be soft.
And on the supply side greater availability of key raw materials helped to loosen the non-hydrogenated market while lower-priced competitive material was also a headwind.
For plasticizers we are facing aggressive competitive pricing from both manufacturers of phthalate-based plasticizers trying to defend market share as well Asian producers who in response to slower growth at home have increased exports to Europe and the U.S.
While we expect operating earnings to -- operating earnings to increase sequentially in the second quarter and for first quarter results to be the lowest quarter of the year in 2013 we are reducing our full year operating earnings guidance for this segment to approximately $225 million.
With that said we remain confident in 2 secular trends that will continue to drive growth for this business.
First solid growth from increased use of hygiene products such as diapers in fast expending markets particularly Asia.
And increased usage of hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins in case and carton packaging adhesives.
And second substitution of phthalate plasticizers with non-phthalate plasticizers in Europe and the U.S.
But to get back to the kind of earnings we expect from this segment we're also going to need stronger global economic growth to help as well.
Advanced Materials is on Slide 8.
And it bounced back from a tough fourth quarter to report solid first quarter results.
Year-over-year sales revenue increased primarily due to higher sales volume particularly for interlayer product lines and Tritan copolyester.
And to give you an example Tritan volume was up about 40% year-over-year mainly in the durable goods market.
Operating earnings increased due to the higher volume and improved product mix.
We're selling more premium products in this segment acoustic interlayers Tritan copolyester V-Kool-branded window films and this is driving mix improvement and earnings growth.
The operating margin for the quarter improved year-over-year to just over 11%.
For full year 2013 the Advanced Materials segment continues to be faced with a challenging business climate including weakness in Europe and lower demand for packaging.
Despite that we expect operating earnings will approach $250 million for the year driven by the improving product mix and higher asset utilization.
Next is Fibers on Slide 9.
And it seems each quarter the results set the bar even higher.
Revenue increased with both volume and price up.
Earnings were a quarterly record at $114 million.
In addition the higher volume in prices operational performance has been excellent with our asset tail stream running at a very high-level and benefiting from the de-bottlenecks we completed last year which are resulting in lower unit cost.
For full year 2013 we are raising our earnings expectation to approximately $430 million and we expect earnings to be slightly higher in the first half of the year compared with second half based on how price and raw material and energy costs flow through our accounting system.
Lastly to update our progress on our joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation to expand acetate tow capacity in China.
I can report that we're on track for the facility to come online during the third quarter.
We expect qualification of material will take place through the end of this year.
And therefore we expect to begin seeing earnings through our equity investment in the joint venture in early 2014.
I'll finish up the segments on Slide 10 with Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates.
Operating earnings increased significantly year-over-year due to lower raw material and energy costs primarily for propane which were partially offset by lower selling prices.
The operating margin for the quarter was just under 16% an increase of about 400 basis points over the prior year quarter.
Sequentially operating earnings increased slightly going from $93 million in fourth quarter '12 to $95 million in the first quarter this year.
You'll recall that we had an operational issue at one of our olefin cracking units in the fourth quarter that had a slight negative impact in those results.
Well we also had a separate issue with one of our crackers in the first quarter that had a slightly larger negative impact on results than in the fourth quarter of last year.
I know this is disappointing but frankly I see these types of issues as common across our industry.
In addition to the cracker issues I would add that a lot of the benefit of lower propane costs was already in our numbers in the fourth quarter partly due to LIFO.
So although we did benefit from an improvement in the propane and propylene spread in the first quarter a significant portion of that was already in our fourth quarter numbers.
In 2013 we will also benefit from an additional furnace on our type 4 cracker providing an additional 100 million pounds of ethylene on an annual basis.
Looking at the full year we continue expect operating earnings will approximate  $380 million which would be very strong performance.
I will end on Slide 11 with an update on our 2013 outlook.
We started the year with very solid results from our portfolio of specialty businesses and we continue to benefit from our leadership position in attractive end markets from the diversity of the end markets we serve and from our broad geographic footprint.
However global economic uncertainty continues with particular weakness in Europe.
And raw material and energy costs continue to be volatile including for propylene paraxylene and benzene.
And taken all of this together we are maintaining our full year expectations which we had increased in January for 2013 EPS of between $6.30 and $6.40.
This would be our fourth consecutive year of double-digit earnings growth if we achieve this.
And I remain confident we are well-positioned to continue to deliver double-digit earnings growth for the next 2 years and beyond.
With that let me turn it over to Curt.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
I'll begin on Slide 13 by reviewing some of the financial highlights for the first quarter.
We generated $5 million of cash from operating activities in the quarter.
Net earnings were solid.
Working capital increased for normal seasonal requirements.
And we made an $11 million contribution to the U.S.
defined benefit pension plans.
Moving to free cash flow for the quarter.
You see it was a negative $83 million a good result in what is typically our seasonally lowest quarter for free cash flow.
Also keep in mind there was no dividend payment in the first quarter as we elected to pay the dividend to our shareholders in December of last year.
Finally our cash balance which includes cash equivalents was $178 million at the end of first quarter.
Our tax rate for the first quarter was 28.7% reflecting the $10 million benefit we noted in our February guidance resulting from the extension of the R&amp;D tax credit and allowance for the tax retransfer of offshore dividends.
We expect our tax rate for the remainder of the year to be approximately 31.5%.
On Slide 13 I'll walk you through our current estimate for free cash flow in 2013.
Consistent with our previous guidance we project operating cash flow of roughly $1.3 billion.
The full year operating cash flow estimate includes our projection for continued strength in earnings as well as the following items: slightly higher working capital as a result of increased revenue and our broader geographical footprint with the working capital we built in the first quarter working down through the remainder of the year.
Funding the balance sheet accruals such as the annual environmental funding of approximately $35 million primarily for legacy Solutia sites and restructuring accruals for site closure in Brazil.
Any additional restructuring and integration costs are excluded from our earnings projections.
And finally we anticipate contributing approximately $120 million to our U.S.
defined benefit plan this year.
Also consistent with our prior guidance we expect 2013 capital expenditures to total approximately $525 million.
This capital spending will be more in the second half of the year due to the normal operational trends as well as the timing for key growth projects including our specialty fluids expansion in Wales.
So putting this altogether we reaffirm our 2013 free cash flow expectation to be between $600 million and $650 million with the midpoint of this range representing a growth rate of greater than 30% over the 2012 total.
Next on Slide 15 I will provide an update on the integration of Solutia.
As the slide indicates we remain well on track to achieve the synergies we expect -- expected when we acquired these businesses last year.
We are also on track with the retention of key talent which is at 93% of what we identified.
We recently achieved one of our key integration milestones with the successful system migration of the rubber additives product lines which is a part of our Additives &amp; Functional Products segment over to our SAP system.
For those of you familiar with SAP migrations you know this is a very complicated process.
To give you a sense this migration itself impacted 1 300 people at 19 different sites and locations in 12 countries.
The implementation went as well as we could have expected and these businesses are now fully operational in our SAP system with seamless impact to our customers.
I just want to recognize all those involved in achieving this outstanding result and milestone.
And we are on track to migrate over to the remaining former Solutia businesses into our SAP system later this year or early 2014 time frame.
All in all we continue to make great progress with our integration efforts and our synergy targets.
To closeout on Slide 16 I'll remind you of our disciplined approach to capital allocation.
As previously mentioned we expect capital expenditures of $525 million which reflects our commitment to pursue organic growth across our portfolio.
On the debt side paying down a significant portion of the Solutia acquisition term loan will continue to be a priority for cash throughout 2013.
During the first quarter we did reduce the term loan balance by $200 million using our strong balance sheet to access attractive funding in the commercial paper market.
Moving next to joint ventures and acquisitions we will continue to progress with our 2 announced joint ventures the acetate tow joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation expected to be online on the third quarter of this year and our Regalite adhesives project joint venture with Sinopec expected online in 2014.
And we will also continue to evaluate opportunities for strategic bolt-ons.
Lastly we expect to continue returning cash to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
During the first quarter we repurchased $32 million of Eastman common stock.
With that thank you for your interest in Eastman Chemical.
And I'll turn it back over to Greg.
Okay.
Thanks Curt.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Michael we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Jim in Adhesives I think you mentioned a couple of issues.
It sounded like you're experiencing some market-related weakness on the packaging adhesives side.
And then I heard you mention an issue on hydrogenated hydrocarbons related to some meaningful cost dynamics.
So I'm wondering if you could flesh those out a little bit more and comment on the expected duration of these issues and whether or not there's anything company-specific at work in either category? And Kevin how did I know the first question might just be on adhesives? Guess what when we had our business reviewed guess where we spent some time.
Look long term I like our position.
There's nothing company-specific negative to Eastman but you do have softness in the packaging market which is part of it.
I think one of the reasons the results were worse than most all of us expected was it wasn't just demand it was also on the supply side.
And the best I can understand it speaking somewhat generally if you had probably several years now tight raw materials where customers can quite often worry about whether they're going to get the supplies some of your competitors couldn't have certainly make all they wanted to make.
And then if those raws loosen up you have more of availability of supply customers don't need to keep their safety stocks and inventory.
And so you had a bit of a double whammy.
You had soft demand and then you also had more supplier or at least a comfort level with customers on supply.
That second thing doesn't last forever so they go ahead and take their inventories down skinnier.
They're more comfortable doing that knowing that they're likely to be able to get product.
The overall demand issue is one that you're going to be able to watch as easy as me in terms of when general level of economic activity picks up and packaging in particular picks up again.
So it was a disappointment.
I think we still like the hydrogenated hydrocarbon outlook.
We like the outlook for diapers in the emerging markets et cetera.
And that trend's not going away anytime soon.
So long-term feel fine short-term we got caught on both demand and supply.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question if I may Jim on Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates.
You referenced the operational issue at Longview.
Can you give as a sense of I guess the absolute impact to that in the first quarter and remind us of what it was in the fourth quarter? Just trying to get a sense of what the sequential delta might have been in that segment related to the operations side? And I'll probably let Curt chime in on this too.
But I thought you might be the one to ask this question Kevin since you're high man on the numbers.
And it obviously without the upset we wouldn't have gone all the way to your number let me just say it that way but we would have been between your number and our number.
Yes I'd say the impact on the first quarter is roughly $10 million and the fourth quarter's a little less than that.
And we'll take our next question from Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you update us on your cost-reduction initiatives and what you think the ultimate savings will be from the integration of Solutia? Let me let Curt pick that up because he's the lead man on that.
Well what we've mentioned in the past Jeff and this still holds true.
Our target is over a run rate of greater than $100 million by the end of this year on those integration savings.
We did talk about there's different levels of probability of other projects we've identified so that $100 million target we talked about was roughly 5% of the acquired revenues.
There is a possibility that could be a 6% number which would be another roughly $25 million and there's a remote chance that it could be 7% another $25 million.
So it's just a range of probability we're working on.
And some of that you won't see until 2015 if it were to come to fruition.
In addition we continue to make good progress on the operational commercial side of Solutia and I think you're starting to see that in the benefits.
And then lastly it's within our culture we have a culture of continuing to focus on productivity and trying to drive unit costs down and you heard some of that -- Jim talked about today in our asset deal stream to some de-bottlenecks et cetera.
So part of it's still synergies part of it's just operational excellence we expect and have been able to achieve.
And Jeff if I could just tag on I mean a lot of times people look at spread and spread widens out and they say they just got more price so the raws went down.
We don't talk a lot about it but we still got all the basic programs going on part of our culture in terms of Six Sigma and cost monitoring the headcount labor cost et cetera.
So we're trying to fight it on all angles and that's about the only way you can deliver these kind of results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly you had such a nice price raw material margin in your Fibers business.
Now selling these shutdowns Spondon [ph] facility late last year did that tighten up the global supply demand balances efficiently to sort of allow for greater industry pricing? Is that the reason why it widened out so much? I would not point to that because they also added capacity and of course we're both adding capacity in China.
But no denying we're running at very high utilization rates.
The whole industry is.
Part of our benefit is and again we don't always talk a lot about it but we just operationally ran very well in terms of cost.
And then there's also a benefit that comes from in the first quarter how the pricing flow through versus the cost flow through.
So usually your first quarter you're getting a little tailwind if I can that maybe all of your cost say higher wood pulp et cetera haven't flown through for full 3 months or you've probably gotten more of your pricing.
And that's way we tried to guide that for Fibers the first half of the year is probably going to look better than the second half the year and not because of any change in the marketplace simply because of how those costs flow through.
And we'll take our next question from David Begleiter of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jim I think you also called out some weakness in plasticizers in the quarter.
Is that weakness do you think permanent structurally? Or is it -- was it temporary going forward? Yes.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder so how temporary is temporary? I mean you've got some plasticizers guys who've been losing the share who are reacting trying to use price.
We also had if I remember correctly kind of soft market in Asia.
So they ship more of the stuff to maybe higher-priced markets Europe and the States.
Long term the non-phthalate trend it's not going to change it's not going to go away.
It's -- we're not going to see high single-digit growth rates in the non-phthalate plasticizer side.
So I still expect growth good growth there.
The real weakness came more on the adhesives side this quarter than the plasticizers side so that's really where more of our focus is right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just in SFI Jim how should we think about a narrowing of the propane propylene spread in Q2 versus Q1 and how would it impact your numbers? Well it does it like it's going to narrow and that's what drives me nuts.
When it's widening out everything thinks I should be raising guidance et cetera.
And we're trying to say "Guys it's only 1 or 2 months." and then -- so it's going to come to go back the other way.
I try not to look honestly.
I try not to look quarter-to-quarter.
I try and think for the year.
I think overall for the next several years we still got a tailwind here.
Let me just point out one other thing though when you look at that segment it's not just that spread propane propylene I also got a really nice fluids business in there.
And the fluids business didn't quite do what we would have hoped in the first quarter and that is more as I'm learning because again those shipments when they have major fills et cetera can kind of move from one quarter to another.
So they should -- the fluids business should do noticeably better next quarter over first quarter.
But yes I would think the spread will come in some.
But overall I think that this segment's going to have a great year.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly any update on the fourth ethylene cracker at Longview? Yes I mean I said last time I have little chagrin.
I don't have more to tell you.
All I can tell you now is we got site visits going on we've narrowed the list down to a few parties.
Midyear is probably when we'd hope to be out with something.
I can honestly say that I worry a little bit that guys are spending too much time or they're building the anticipation up too much on this one.
I mean we're a pretty good-sized company and restarting another cracker or doing something with the excess ethylene that would probably take 2 or 3 years to get in place anyway.
I hope they're not buying our stock on that waiting for that shoe to drop and for us to tell them what to do because we think we got a great portfolio of businesses.
But yes hopefully midyear we can kind of spell out who we're going to work with and what it's going to look like.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Jim you mentioned more aggressive competition from Asia in the adhesives business.
Is this a function of the weak economy over there and you think this sort of ebbs and flows as their own home cooking improves and they won't have to seek out other markets or is this just sort of a standard product cycle issue where it's becoming more intense? I think I was mainly talking about plasticizers on that.
Yes that's okay.
But let me just talk about Asia in general.
And basically we had pretty much all the segments but Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers had pretty good results in Asia.
And it seemed like we were seeing something a little different than a lot of the guys were talking as we were going around beginning of the year our last conference call et cetera.
I don't know that we're that exceptional except I like our portfolio of products in Asia.
So filter tow being such a major product for us in Asia gives us pretty good Asian numbers usually quarter-in and quarter-out.
I know that in -- as I look forward just to give you some little anecdotal stuff I think on the oxos it's going to get fairly competitive there.
I think butanol for example under price pressure in Asia right now.
So yes we had a good first quarter in Asia.
I would think I'm pleased that it's our second largest region let me say it that way.
But we take nothing for granted in Asia and I think the hardest thing is figuring out segment-by-segment what's going in with inventory levels in Asia because I just think they're masters at moving those inventories around when they think it's to their advantage.
Research Division</strong> And could I ask a separate question on Crystex? It seemed like there was some consternation among investors that that such a great ride that had to end at some point.
I didn't get that sense from your comments so could you talk a little bit about what's going on in the market there and in particular pricing? Yes.
I disagree that it's something that has to end.
I mean we have the best product in the marketplace.
We have the best cost position.
The way I look at this -- in fact I went through a few of the Solutia businesses if you want.
But the way I look at this and this is a great business and you're seeing it probably at its weakest because of what's going on in the general tire marketplace.
So we held volumes in Crystex which I think is a good thing.
A year ago they were running their utilization rates a little harder so the comp was going to be tough for us.
They had all kinds of rational why they ran harder a year ago but let's just say we think we're running it very prudently today in terms of how we're running our plants.
When the tire market comes back I think that's -- we're going to get to see how good this business really is and also when we pull the trigger and do our Kuantan expansion and get some further cost reductions because of process improvements I think that's also going to be quite a positive.
So people they should not judge the tire additives business by the way it looks right now.
This is fairly tough marketplace for them.
I'll just say similar thing with interlayers where you got Europe so soft.
I mean I just know that's a better business than you're seeing today.
But you're seeing it down because of Europe.
If I look at the fluids business sold out fantastic business.
We're going to have the wherewithal to add capacity and so that's going to meet or exceed our expectations.
The films business is probably the highlight.
That's one that's doing the highest above our expectations.
And we'll -- I think maybe next call or so we'll try and focus -- and I'm looking over at Greg.
I think we'll try and focus in a little more on films to give you some more color.
Because I don't want you to ignore that.
Some of our best growth rates and great products and some real opportunity we see there.
So I mean -- so you got 2 of the muscle players from Solutia that I think you're seeing at low points and the other businesses are performing very well.
And we'll take our next question from Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just to go back to PVB interlayers at the Investor Day you made a comment you thought the old management had made an error around kind of a price volume decision about a year ago.
So as that anniversary-s this year where you guys or are you guys able to get back the volume you think they lost? Yes that's a good question.
And I think if I remember correctly we talked we kind of had a 2-year game plan for doing that.
We've got a long ways in the first year so we're pleased with the contracting strategy we did.
We got more price in Asia we got more volume in Europe and that's exactly what we wanted.
So yes overall I think we're getting the right response from the major customers.
They want a long-term player somebody's going to work with them.
And we've had to accommodate customers where necessary to make sure that we had the market position we wanted with the key players in that industry.
But yes overall I'm pleased with what we've been able to accomplish in 1 year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then another comment from the Investor Day.
I thought you guys had forecast you would grow about half the market in Crystex because you needed to make room for kind of the #2 and #3 player that brought on some capacity but it seems like you're holding volume.
Has their capacity rolled into the market and is it just going smoother than you thought? Or are we still waiting for that capacity to come online? Yes I'm pleased to what we've been able to do in the Crystex market but let me -- Greg you want to add some color? I was just going to add that when we talked in Investor Day we were talking about growth rate that might be in the 5% range for tires.
And what we're seeing right now is flat.
So when we're talking about growing half of what the market's growing the market has to be growing and we're not seeing that right now.
But we held.
I'm pleased with how we did share-wise in Crystex.
Research Division</strong> But did the capacity from those competitors come online? Or -- because the growth rate will be where it'll be but if people bring on capacity and they're willing to use price to get into the market I thought that's why you guys were going to back off and basically just make way for them so that it didn't hit pricing.
But that's what I'm trying to figure out.
Did they come online or did they not come online? Yes.
I understand your question and I can't remember specifically.
I know that the kind of capacity adds we had were small from numerous players and so I just assumed honestly they were coming on...
I've not heard any discussion amongst our business about any change in outlook of how that capacity is coming on.
So I wasn't aware.
It's not like there was one big step function coming on.
But I can't give you anymore color than that.
And we'll go next to Andy Cash with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on the acetate tow there's some raw material pressure coming from the cellulose side.
Could you give us your index? What you think raw material costs will do for acetate tow over the course of the year.
And also what sort of volume change year-over-year do you expect for the business full year? Yes let me hit the raw materials side and just remind folks on the major wood pulp we do in annual contracts.
So we know what the cost is there.
I don't see that moving around.
What we were trying to say is we didn't get a full 3 month's worth of that cost in the first quarter -- the increase in the first quarter.
You also don't get quite a full 3 months of the pricing in the  first quarter either but it slanted a little more to where you get less of the raw material cost.
So I don't want to  mislead anybody.
Obviously business doing great.
We're covering our raw material costs outperforming due partly to that spread also partly to just great operational excellence.
Fibers is pretty tight right now.
So I don't know -- Greg were we seeing much more volume this year versus last year? Low-single digits which is pretty consistent with where we were in the first quarter.
Okay.
By the way the other piece that moves around there is -- it's small is yarn but yarn is not causing any swings.
It's pretty much steady.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then some of -- if I could ask one other question about some of your growth businesses.
You alluded to V-Kool doing well.
Could you talk about -- just give us a ballpark of the range of growth you're seeing for V-Kool films on acoustics and also Tritan side? Yes.
They're good numbers.
Why don't I let my CFO -- you want to say the percentage increase? Tritan was 40% V-Kool I think was a strong double-digit on.
It was at 20% or something like that.
I don't -- when we were -- the acoustics I think was 30%.
I mean these things I just wish they were bigger so that these percentages would be off a bigger basis.
But yes it's pretty good growth on that.
And that -- but it brings up the bigger point is that stuff that's growing fast is your higher margin.
So you're getting the nice mix improvement like when you sell more acoustics in the interlayers the same thing with Tritan same thing with V-Kool.
I mean those are all good trends.
And so if I got a disappointment I wish we'd had more volume growth this quarter.
But I'm very pleased with the mix changes that we're seeing in our businesses.
And if I could add Jim on top of it what you're getting with those growth rates is we already have the investments made so you're getting the leverage off that.
Yes that's true.
That's true.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just if I could go back to what Duffy was talking about earlier about the PVB.
In the auto area I mean shouldn't your business see a better comps going forward if the auto pundits arrive and the European business is less onerous on a year-to-year basis going forward? Yes that would be -- that would definitely be a help.
Remember the interlayer business is not just the autos.
You've also got the building and construction commercial buildings particularly in Europe.
And so that's quite soft and I don't think that's forecast to turnaround any time soon.
But you're right on the auto side.
And we'll go next to Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> On the adhesives business I know you've got some expansions in Longview and then YPC over the next couple of years.
Is there any way if the market continues to be weak that you might dial back some of those expansions to keep -- prevent operating rates from declining too significantly? Yes well for -- the big one would be the one in China.
And frankly I'm not too concerned about the hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins.
That's -- we're going to need that volume.
And I think we said when we announced it that we also had quite a bit of the output under contract already from that plant.
So not going to be a major risk.
I don't see it screwing up the market because of the segment it's in lets say it that way.
And the hygiene market is growing stronger for the hydrogenated.
So that trend is still there Nils.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then on the interlayers business again.
I mean I think you -- at Investor Day you said that that business was about 50% Europe and yet obviously Asia contributed.
So I was just curious as how much of a drag Europe was because of autos and construction? Yes.
I don't know how to quantify it for you without trying to get in number by number.
I can just tell you that the thing for me on that business was the tough comparison in the last year as well in terms of how they ran the business last year.
But Europe's the one we need to turn.
When Europe turns we're going to feel really good because it is the major impact on this segment.
Research Division</strong> Just finally if I may I think sort of year-to-date charges and whatever from Solutia integration.
Or somewhere in the $80 million range excluding inventory step-ups and everything else how do you -- how does that compare to what you were expecting and how many more charges do you think you might have to take from Solutia? Well I think when you look at what happened in the first quarter we had about $10 million of integration costs from restructuring costs.
Those will kind of continue at that level through the course of the rest of this year.
We'll start to unwind as we finish those major SAP implementations.
So it will be pretty much behind us as we finish the year.
And it's pretty much in line with what we expected when we announced the deal.
And we'll go next to Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim in your prepared remarks you said it's a difficult and unpredictable environment out there.
So of course that begs the question I would like you to do some forecasting here.
You did a nice job of talking about the geographies the Q1 results for the various geographies and the sales movements; this that and other things.
[ph].
Can you give us the state of the -- the current state of affairs whipping around North America Europe Asia what you're seeing there? Yes thanks Frank.
I would say first of all as we give our guidance.
We're not -- we're expecting things to kind of trek along the way it is right now.
So if we had a nice surprise the upside where somehow Europe pulls a rabbit out of a hat we could do better.
But odds are it's going to play out in our opinion kind of the way we're seeing it now.
So you had North America and it's probably the same thing everyone else is in.
North America pretty good Europe frankly still just down and don't really see what the light is at the end of the tunnel for Europe.
I mean I guess in a year or 2 they got to come out of it.
But in general our best play there is to keep an improving mix within that region.
I'd say Latin America just not that big for us.
But when you look at how we were down a little bit volume-wise I think Brazil is probably tougher times than Mexico is.
And then you get to Asia.
And Asia's the one that could make a difference but harder -- I'd say the hardest to call.
I've pretty good idea where Europe is going to next year so pretty good idea the States is going to stay good the next year.
So Asia is a little bit tougher to see.
And there you have to start getting into the segments.
But by and large I think it kind of keeps trekking along the way it is.
So we may have had a little more of a tailwind first quarter and maybe tougher for Asia to keep up at that level.
I don't know I hope that's helpful.
LLC Research Division</strong> So how would you describe the April pace of business versus the Q1 pace of business in Asia overall? Let me ask Curt because he probably looks at that as well.
Yes I think when we look at the order trends April even early part of May we're seeing that same trend of strength in most of our businesses within Asia.
We haven't seen any dramatic upcrease or downwind.
The only -- I just said the antidote of some of the oxos  pricing pressure there like butanol et cetera.
But that's about the only negative I've heard change from first to second.
LLC Research Division</strong> Alright.
Terrific.
And then Curt you described use of cash on the shareholder bullet.
Continued share repurchases to offset dilution yet I noticed that your share count ticked in in Q1.
Can you expand upon the potential that we might see more of that happen as we go forward? Well I'm glad you noted that Frank.
If you look at our fully diluted share count you're right it did tick down a little bit as we implemented share repurchases.
I'd actually point out on an actual share count base it increased.
It's had more to do with the pricing options...
Right.
Options exercise then we had a few shares issued under the old Solutia warrants.
So right now our strategy continues to be repurchase shares to offset dilution as we make progress on our debt pay down as you've heard before.
We'll look at how we deploy that cash further whether we do more share repurchases beyond dilution.
LLC Research Division</strong> Alright terrific.
And then if I could just come back to the Tritan volumes up 40% year-over-year which is obviously an eye-popping number.
Any color around that? I mean operating rates for that unit how is that trending? Do you expect more of that to continue? Yes I think it's perhaps unrealistic to think it's going to have 40% up comps from here on out.
It's had a bang up quarter where market acceptance for the product is just fantastic which not only gives us the volume but allows us to concentrate on the segments of the market as I think things like medical versus some of the other packaging applications that would be less attractive.
It's still going to take a little while to fill up the capacity we got so we're not worried about running out of capacity soon.
We've talked in the past about how you add a monomer plant and then you add lines et cetera.
So I think we're still looking at Tritan not filling up until what? End of next year maybe something like that? But it's -- that's a good part of what's going on within Eastman right now it's how Tritan's -- how the market's responding to Tritan.
And we'll go next to Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the acetate tow business.
I know Asia from a cigarette perspective is I don't know almost 60% of your volume.
But in the rest of the world how -- what level of concern do you have over sort of medium or long-term about when President Obama announces the potential for Federal excise tax pretty substantial in the U.S.
or you see Philip Morris International's volume down mid-single digits in the quarter I mean.
And the potential for further excise tax increases in Europe or in other places.
What level of concern at all is that to you? Well we're not naive about it.
I mean we can see what part of the world we live in and what the smoking trends are here.
We know one is the biggest impacts in the past on smoking has been tax increases.
So you're right to focus on one of the levers that can have a almost immediate impact.
Interestingly enough a year or 2 later you lose some of that impact again.
In other words it goes back up.
But long term I think we all know the trend outside of Asia.
And it'll be a slow decline.
What you're going to want is you're going to want to have the best cost position and you're going to want to have a nice base in Asia and that's what we're building long-term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Curtis if I could just ask you on the free cash flow.
Can you just sort of remind me sort of how it sequenced through the year and just let me know if there's any impact from the sort of maybe in the inventory from the weakness in adhesives and sort of how you see that playing out through the year.
So let me -- first of all on the inventory I can assure that our business and our supply chain guys are keenly aware of kind of our order trends and makes sure we operate consistent with those trends.
So that wasn't a factor.
And as we look at free cash flow as we'd expect we're kind of negative in the first quarter and it starts building through the end of the year.
I don't know maybe our third or fourth quarter will be one of our strongest the second half of the year is where we'll see a significant generation of our free cash flow.
And we'll go next to Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
On the tire side are your customers giving any sense of having a sense for when the market actually turns or are they still waiting on pins and needles? And on the Fibers business is there a point -- I mean how many years can you sort of maintain a good pricing cycle? Or is there a threshold that we should be thinking about where you actually run the risk of creating your own demand destruction separate from tax increases or other government interventions? Yes.
So let me start with the tires.
We just happened to ask that same question when we were having our review.
What are the customers telling you? What can you see? The destocking has been going on in that industry for a while now.
More than a quarter or 2 to the best of our knowledge.
And we also by the way we're humble enough to admit there's other companies who've been dealing with the tire industry a lot longer than us and it's a lot bigger percent of their business.
So trust me there's guys out there who can speak much more intelligently than me about it.
But we haven't seen the turn yet in where people have gone the other way and started to feel like they need to build inventories again.
And I don't think we're getting a lot of feedback on how soon that's going to be.
So it's just one of those where I'm thankful we got such a diversified portfolio of businesses that one business is soft like adhesives something else can kick in.
On the Fibers business I don't really worry about things we would do as a supplier that would cause demand destruction.
I mean the filter's actually the cheaper part of the cigarette.
So to the extent they lengthen the filters and call it a premium cigarette their cost goes down and therefore their margin goes up and we sell more products.
So I think it's what we talked about earlier.
You can just see the long-term trends in terms of developed world smoking on a very slow decline is still growing though in the developing world.
And that -- those are going to be the dominant trends.
And taxes country-by-country can move things around and in particular can cause upset say in a particular quarter for 1 year but then the world seems to adjust.
So the other thing I think the industry has been fairly disciplined about looking at their high cost production facilities and over the years have gravitated to lower cost and to Asia from higher cost and places like Western Europe.
And we'll go next to Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of Crystex I just wanted to -- maybe help us visualize where are your operating rates now? And once they do sort of recover is the leverage higher than what we might have seen in the years passed and maybe give us a feel for how that can shape up? Yes I got plenty of capacity right now.
If that's your question.
And I think there's a track record -- it was a leader by far in this industry the capacity  utilization Solutia and now us.
We're more likely to move utilization rates around and -- than the small competitors are.
But so I'm not going to give you a percentage number on utilization rate but let's just say I've got capacity.
One of the key things to watch for though and you'll get a signal as soon as anybody when we announce we're going forward with the Kuantan expansion and a newer technology and lowering our cost position.
That's going to be a very good sign.
And that is the kind of thing that can give you more leverage than you've had in the past that you got a lower cost process that's actually retrofitable.
So we'll see.
I mean I never take anything for granted.
Don't give you any guarantees.
But I think we got some much better times ahead of us for Crystex.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just curious I know it's still early but there are some companies when you look at the economic backdrop particularly in Europe over the next couple of years sort of the long-term goals seem more difficult and Advanced Materials is one where we needed a pretty big ramp over the next couple of years.
Can you sort give us an update of how you think about that business given some of the commentary that Europe could be weaker? Yes it did have probably the steepest incline in the climb.
Maybe now Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers does.
But I feel better than I did 6 months ago about them being able to hit their targets.
And partly -- remember I got 3 businesses in there so I got the specialty plastics business like I think I said on the last call was going to have a very good year probably the best year ever.
That still seems to be intact.
They had a very strong first quarter.
Performance films is outperforming our expectations.
It has nice growth rates and is becoming a more significant part of that segment although admittedly still the smallest.
And then the interlayer business is where the upside is.
And we do need some improvement in Europe and we do need some global improvement to hit those numbers.
We said that back then so I don't want to pretend like Europe can just stay where it is forever and we're going to be happy.
We do need a pickup in the global economic activity in particular Europe.
And we'll go next to P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So I got 2 questions.
One on Kingsport and one in Longview.
At Kingsport I think you were working on this project to convert your coal feedstock into partly a natural gas.
Where do you stand on that? And then on Longview for your fourth cracker startup do you need a long-term off peak [indiscernible] contract agreement? Let me hit Kingsport.
It's not the feedstock.
It is for energy converting our major powerhouse from coal to gas.
And so we're going to -- for energy purposes we're going to be about half coal half gas.
That's proceeding on pace.
We haven't started fooling around with steel and concrete et cetera but that's going to go in-line with what we would want to have done for regulatory reasons anyway.
But remember the feedstocks coal we gasify coal that's always going to stay that way.
In Longview on the -- you were breaking up a little bit P.J.
so I didn't quite understand what you were asking about the fourth cracker.
Research Division</strong> Yes do you need a long-term customer agreement for off peak? Yes let me say it this way we're not looking to be a bigger merchant player in ethylene.
So when you say do we need a long-term agreement whatever we do with a partner is going to be a long-term -- it's going to be a long-term arrangement whether we continue to own that cracker and operate it or we sell the cracker or what we do with our excess ethylene.
But whatever we do is going to be a long-term solution that's not going to be spot market exposure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And there was a lot of discussion on the tire market.
Can you just breakdown for us your tire exposure to commercial trucks versus passenger cars? Yes commercial is larger than passenger.
I don't remember it.
What do we -- do we use to say 60-40 or something? I mean obviously more than that? Yes.
It's more than that.
More than that okay.
So yes it's more commercial.
But thanks for your question P.J.
And we'll take our final question from John Roberts [ph] with UBS.
You've got a core group of people who's doing a great job on the integration activities.
Do you disband them back into the organization as you work through that or does this sort of set up a challenge for you to try to find some other things to keep these people active on integrating? Let me just say you guys on that side of the call you actually do know something about how to run businesses.
A lot of the questions you've been asking is exactly the kind of conversations we have had internally and that is -- that's another one where you got some synergy having a group together and then the issue is: Do you think you can keep them fully occupied? Curt -- and this is really Curt's baby so let me have Curt on the line.
What we're thinking through is just different scenarios by which you don't know how your M&amp;A pipeline is going to play out so how do you keep that capability within your house.
And there's different ways you can deploy them to keep them busy and if a project comes along you can put them to work on integration.
And I'd have to say our people are just excited about the integration efforts.
They're demonstrating their capabilities and I think we'll keep that talent available should we need it.
And then just as a follow-up it sounds like you're completely dismissing the e-cigarette phenomena.
Which may be correct but I've got some friends and family who really love the product.
And sometimes electronic devices come down in price really fast because of the learning curve and scale they go up.
And so I just wanted to do a gut check  that that's something that you really don't think is on the horizon anytime soon? Yes.
I wouldn't use the word dismissing.
We probably look at things at a depth and sooner than just about anybody else would when it comes to our Fibers business.
But I would say that there is a comfort level that in the near to intermediate term we can pretty much see how demand and supply is going to flow.
It's probably the most predictable market we're in.
And so again I never take anything for granted I don't dismiss it.
But I think we're fairly comfortable we're going to need that capacity that we're adding in China.
Okay thanks again for joining us this morning.
A web replay and a replay in downloadable MP3 format will be available on our website beginning approximately 11:00 a.m.
Thanks again and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on the Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thank you Jenny and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Jim Rogers Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mark Costa President; Ron Lindsay Senior Vice President; and Josh Morgan Manager Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover 4 items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual events or results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's second quarter 2013 financial results news release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-Q filed for first quarter 2013 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for second quarter 2013.
Second earnings per share and operating earnings referenced in this presentation excludes certain noncore or nonrecurring costs charges and gains.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the excluded items are available in our second quarter 2013 financial results news release which can be found at eastman.com in the Investor section.
Projections of future earnings in the presentation also exclude such items as described in the second quarter financial results news release.
Third this presentation includes revenues and operating earnings on a pro forma-combined basis assuming the acquisition of Solutia have been completed prior to second quarter 2012 that compare post-acquisition results to pre-acquisition pro forma-combined results.
More information on pro forma-combined results is in our second quarter 2013 financial results news release.
And lastly we have posted slides to accompany our remarks for this morning's call on our website in the Presentation and Events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Greg and thanks everyone for joining us on a bright sunny morning here in East Tennessee.
I'll begin on Slide 3.
As I always do on these calls I'll take just a moment to provide an update on our most recent public statements.
First of all progress on the Solutia integration continues to exceed our expectations.
We have been one company for just over a year now and I can say we are ahead of where we thought we would be last July.
As is his normal practice Curt will provide you with an update and some more color on his section.
But as I have now stated for several quarters I'm quite pleased with how the integration is going and how well these businesses and cultures have come together to create value.
Next in February we raised our full year 2013 EPS expectation to a range of $6.30 to $6.40 a 17% to 19% growth rate over 2012.
Today we're increasing that guidance again to $6.40 to $6.50 as we see additional strength in both our Fibers and Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates segments partially offset by continued challenges in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
We also said we expected to generate between $600 million and $650 million of free cash flow in 2013 and we're on track to achieve this.
Finally as always management committed to remain disciplined in our capital allocation.
And we continue to believe that prudent resource allocation focused on financial return metrics is what delivers the best long-term performance in this industry.
Now on Slide 4 I'll review the Eastman corporate results.
Operating earnings increased second quarter 2013 versus second quarter 2012 primarily due to higher sales volume in 4 of our 5 segments and higher capacity utilization which lead to lower unit cost.
In particular the Advanced Materials segment had strong volume growth in our Tritan copolyester product line particularly for durable goods and the Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates segment also had a strong quarter with higher volume in both fluids and olefin and the Intermediates contributing nicely to earnings growth.
The operating margin for the quarter was 18.6% a 160 basis point improvement year-over-year and a greater than 100 basis point improvement over the first quarter.
Second quarter EPS was $1.80 Eastman's best EPS on record.
With this level of earnings we are well positioned to achieve our fourth consecutive year of double-digit earnings growth.
So while the global economic environment remains mixed and somewhat unpredictable our second quarter earnings results were a continuation of the strong start we saw in the first quarter.
On Slide 5 I'll highlight our results by geographic region.
Our largest region North America was down less than 1% so basically flat with it primarily being the case of lower selling prices resulting from lower raw material costs.
We had a really nice quarter in Asia Pacific up 11% year-over-year and driven primarily by strength in both our Fibers and Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates segment as well as significant growth in our Tritan copolyester.
You'll recall our first quarter year-over-year growth was also 11% so we've had a very good start to the year in Asia Pacific.
A big factor of play here is in China where our portfolio is benefiting from an emerging middle class and a focused shift to a consumer economy and our portfolio is less exposed to the declining infrastructure spending in the region.
I'll also point out that we have done a particularly good job on execution in this region in particular with some of our oxo alcohols this quarter as our team was pretty nimble and was able to move some material when it made economic sense.
Revenue in Europe was flat for the quarter.
And frankly given the state of their economy this is really solid performance.
And Latin America revenue was up $6 million or about 5%.
So our geographic diversity continues to be a source of strength for our portfolio and our second quarter results reflect that.
Moving next to the segments on Slide 6 where I'll begin with Additives &amp; Functional Products.
Sales revenue increased primarily due to higher sales volume.
This was particularly true for solvents as we continue to benefit from the strengthening U.S.
building and construction market.
For tire additives Crystex insoluble sulfur volume was higher year-over-year while antidegradant volume was lower in what remains a very challenged oversupplied market.
Operating earnings decreased slightly largely due to lower earnings in antidegradant product lines while the operating margin remained above 24% within the range we provided for this business at our Investor Day in December.
Looking at the full year we're expecting second half earnings to be slightly higher than first half as tire additives are expected to benefit from somewhat higher sales volume improved capacity utilization and lower raw material and energy costs in the second half of the year.
And our solvents product lines are expected to benefit from higher sales volume in part due to an expansion of ethylene oxide derivative capacity at our site in Longview Texas.
As a result we continue to expect full year 2013 operating earnings of approximately $410 million which would be a solid improvement over 2012 in an economic environment that remains challenging.
Moving next to Slide 7 in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
Second quarter results for this business reflect ongoing challenges primarily for the adhesives resins product lines where we continue to face multiple headwinds.
First focusing on adhesive resins we continue to see demand weakness in consumables in particular for packaging tape and labels.
Coupled with a weak demand the market is also experiencing increased supply contributed primarily to increased raw material availability resins in particular.
And these factors combined have led to lower selling prices.
In addition customer destocking has also been a factor in the first half of the year but we are cautiously optimistic that this is largely behind us.
For Plasticizers we continue to face competitive pricing from producers who in response to slower growth in Asia and European markets have increased exports to other regions.
We also continue to see manufacturers of phthalate-based plasticizers trying to defend market share.
Looking at the full year we expect operating earnings to be approximately $200 million.
And there is downside risk to this number reflecting the limited visibility we currently have in our adhesives resins business.
With that said as I stated on first quarter call we remain confident in the 2 key long-term growth drivers for this business: first solid growth from increased use of hygiene products such as diapers in fast-expanding markets particularly Asia; and second substitution of phthalate plasticizers with non-phthalate plasticizers in Europe and the U.S.
Advanced Materials is on Slide 8 and they had a strong quarter.
Year-over-year sales revenue increased with contributions from all 3 underlying businesses.
Tritan had another fantastic quarter with volume up over 70% that's 7-0 percent primarily in the durable goods market.
If you recall last quarter we were up around 40% year-over-year.
So we're really seeing strong adoption by the market as we get wins across several applications and geographies.
And as a result we are expanding our Tritan capacity by approximately 25% which we expect will be online around the middle of next year and we continue to evaluate options for more significant expansions in the future.
Interlayers' volume increased reflecting strong demand in the Asian and North American transportation markets and performance films volume was also higher as that business really had a nice quarter.
Operating earnings increased primarily due to higher sales volume and higher capacity utilization which led to lower unit cost as well as improved product mix.
We continue to sell more premium products in this segment Tritan copolyester V-Kool brand window films and the interlayers with acoustic properties.
And this mix improvement along with improved volume and higher utilization is expected to continue to drive our earnings growth consistent with what we told you at Investor Day back in December.
The operating margin for the quarter improved to just under 13% a nearly 250 basis point increase year-over-year.
For the full year we're expecting the distribution of earnings to be similar to the past few years with first half earnings just under 60% and second half earnings just over 40%.
We're expecting a decline in second half earnings due to copolyesters and interlayers manufacturing shutdowns in the third quarter and seasonally slower demand.
As a result we expect 2013 operating earnings to be approximately $250 million.
Given the continuing weak auto market in Europe as well as lower demand in areas like packaging and displays this would be very strong performance we think.
Next is Fibers on Slide 9 another great quarter for this great business.
Revenue increased with both volume and price up.
Earnings were a record at $116 million due primarily to higher selling prices.
For full year 2013 we're raising our earnings expectations to approximately $450 million which means we expect earnings to be slightly higher in the first half of the year compared to the second half as we anticipate higher raw material and energy cost namely wood pulp in the second half based on how these costs flow through our system.
Lastly I'll give you a quick update on our joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation to expand acetate tow capacity in China.
We're on track for the facility to come online during the third quarter.
We expect qualification of material will take place through the end of the year and therefore we expect to begin to recognize earnings from our equity investment in the joint venture in early 2014.
We also expect to begin recognizing revenue and earnings from acetate flake sales to the joint venture during the second half of this year.
I'll finish off the segments on Slide 10 with Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates.
Sales revenue increased year-over-year as we had higher volume in both olefin-based Intermediates products and Specialty Fluids.
For olefins we benefited from having a full quarter of output from the furnace we added to our type 4 cracker which came online at the end of the first quarter and offset from identifying opportunities to move some of our butanol from Texas into the Asian market.
For Specialty Fluids the higher volume was primarily due to the timing of customer sales.
Operating earnings increased significantly year-over-year primarily due to higher volume with lower raw material and energy costs largely offset by corresponding lower selling prices.
Sequentially operating earnings increased by $23 million or almost 25%.
We saw improvement throughout the segment largely due to increased volume which was up 7%.
Also the operating margin for the quarter was over 17% an increase of about 250 basis points over the prior year quarter and about 170 basis points higher sequentially.
For the full year we are raising our operating earnings expectations to approximately $410 million reflecting strong earnings expectations throughout the segment.
I'll end on Slide 11 with an update on our 2013 outlook.
We're at the halfway point for the year and have had very solid results from our portfolio specialty businesses.
We continue to benefit from our leadership position in attractive end markets from the diversity of the end markets we serve and from our broad geographic footprint.
Given our strong first half of the year we're raising our full year expectations for 2013 EPS to a range of $6.40 to $6.50 and this is despite slow global economic growth and weakness in certain markets like European autos and adhesive resins.
We're expecting earnings in the second half to be slightly lower than the first half due to seasonally lower volume.
And I would add that in the third quarter we also have several shutdowns that I previously mentioned.
But in the fourth quarter we expect higher year-over-year capacity utilization which we expect will result in lower unit cost compared to what we had in the fourth quarter '12.
We remain on track to achieve our 4 -- fourth consecutive year of double-digit earnings growth and I remain confident we are well positioned to continue to deliver double-digit earnings growth for the next 2 years and beyond.
And with that I'll turn it over to Curt.
Okay.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
Moving ahead to Slide 13 I'll review some of our financial highlights for the second quarter.
We generated $362 million of cash from operating activities in the quarter primarily due to strong net earnings.
Working capital increased by $46 million primarily due to increased receivables.
We also made a $13 million contribution to the U.S.
defined benefit pension plans and continue to expect the full year contribution will be approximately $120 million.
Free cash flow for the quarter was $216 million with CapEx at $100 million.
Finally our cash balance which includes cash equivalents was $234 million at the end of second quarter.
During the quarter we also incurred $18 million in net asset impairment and restructuring charges primarily for closure of a photovoltaics production facility in Germany.
The site produced ethylene vinyl acetate for use in photovoltaics an end market that has been very weak for some time now.
Our tax rate for the second quarter was 30.9%.
This is a bit below our previous guidance of a rate slightly less than 31.5% with the difference primarily attributed to investment tax credits from the state of Tennessee related to our recently announced future capital expenditures at our Kingsport site.
We expect our tax rate for the remainder of the year to be approximately 31% assuming no dramatic change in foreign earnings mix.
On Slide 14 I'll walk you through our estimates for free cash flow in 2013.
Consistent with our previous guidance we project operating cash flows of roughly $1.3 billion.
The full year operating cash estimates include our projection for continued strength in earnings as well as the following items: first slightly higher working capital as a result of increased revenue and a broader geographic footprint with the majority of the working capital build in the first half of the year to work down in the third and fourth quarters; second funding of balance sheet accruals such as the EVA environmental funding of approximately $30 million primarily for legacy Solutia sites and restructuring accruals for site closures in Brazil and Germany; third any Solutia restructuring and integration costs that are excluded from our earnings projections; and lastly as previously noted an anticipated $120 million contribution to our U.S.
defined benefit plans.
Also consistent with our prior guidance we expect 2013 capital expenditures to total approximately $525 million.
This capital spending will be more in the second half of the year due to normal operational trends as well as timing for our growth projects such as our Specialty Fluids expansion in Wales.
So putting this all together we reaffirm our 2013 free cash flow expectations to be between $600 million and $650 million with the midpoint of this range representing a growth rate of greater than 30% over the 2012 total.
Next on Slide 15 I'll provide an update on the Solutia integration.
We remain well on track to achieve the synergies we expected when we acquired this business last year.
As the slide indicates for the cost synergies we expect to achieve greater than $100 million run rate by the end of this year.
On the tax synergies we're on track to utilize at a minimum approximately 50% of the NOLs by the end of 2015 and I've also put in place structures to help lower our effective tax rate.
For the revenue synergies while these remain difficult to quantify at this point we are excited by the commercial improvements and new product development projects that will be added further toward this transaction.
As we noted last quarter we reached a major milestone in April with the successful integration of the rubber additives product lines part of our key Additives &amp; Functional Products segments over to our SAP system.
And we remain on track to complete SAP migration of the remaining former-Solutia businesses in late 2013 to early 2014 timeframe.
The Solutia acquisition remains a very add -- value-adding transactions for our shareholders.
The Solutia transaction and some of divestitures we have completed over the years Eastman has demonstrated a commitment to evaluate our portfolio of businesses and assets to ensure we are obtaining the best value for our shareholders.
As another example we have been evaluating options with our excess ethylene position as summarized here on Slide 16.
As a reminder we have 4 crackers at our site in Longview Texas.
We have one larger cracker with 800 million pounds of annual ethylene capacity and we have 3 smaller crackers each with approximately 300 million pounds of annual ethylene capacity.
One of these 3 million -- one of these 3 smaller crackers has been idle since 2007.
We use all of the roughly 600 million pounds of propylene we produce and buy about 300 million pounds annually.
We use about 50% of the ethylene we produce with the remaining 700 million pounds of excess ethylene sold into merchant market.
There is a common carrier ethylene pipeline between Longview and Mont Belvieu that is not owned by Eastman.
Our focus has been to look at options to monetize or otherwise improve the economics of the approximately 700 million pounds of excess ethylene position while retaining our reliable and cost-advantaged integrated position for our specialty and proprietary products.
As part of the effort we recognize the safe and reliable operation of our crackers is essential to ensure reliable supply of our materials for specialty and proprietary product production.
And we believe that ownership of our larger cracker is essential for our integrated site integrity.
We also intend to retain the cost advantage of our fully integrated position to propylene since losing this advantage would be trading volatility in propane for even greater volatility in propylene.
Therefore options at our consideration rated -- range from a capacity reservation fee to divestiture of the 2 smaller and one idle crackers.
In addition ethylene could be used as raw material for a new on-site derivatives facility that another party could build or could move offsite over the common carrier ethylene pipeline.
To size this for you over the last couple of years earnings from this approximately 700 million pounds of excess ethylene sales have been between 3% and 5% of overall Eastman earnings.
In terms of status we're making good progress.
The data room has been set up for some time now and there have been a number of management presentations as well as a number of visits to the Longview site and there have been multiple parties that have expressed interest.
In addition there are various complexities to work through such as feedstock mix to ensure adequate supply of propylene for our needs or how to price such propylene if we were to sell any of these 3 smaller crackers.
Furthermore we have assumed third parties would continue to have reasonable access to the common carrier ethylene pipeline.
However earlier this month Westlake the common carrier pipeline owner at the site modified the tariff on the pipeline and effectively eliminated the ability of a third party to move ethylene offsite which had not been the case up to this point.
Eastman yesterday filed a legal challenge with the Texas Railroad Commission which is the governmental entity that regulates pipelines in Texas and we are confident in our position as stated with the authorities.
Resolving this issue has caused some delay in our efforts thus far.
This extra time has enabled additional parties to visit the site peer management presentations and join the process.
However if resolution to this matter is prolonged it will continue to delay our efforts.
One other comment.
As mentioned in the last call we feel investors are spending probably a little too much time on this issue.
We are a large company with a great portfolio of businesses and it doesn't necessarily make sense to me to decide whether or not to buy Eastman stock based on what we do with our excess position-- ethylene position alone.
We will continue to be disciplined regarding decisions with these assets as we've demonstrated with our portfolio the last several years and we'll update you further on our efforts as appropriate.
And to close on Slide 17 we will also continue to be disciplined with our approach to capital allocation.
As previously mentioned we expect capital expenditures of $525 million which is similar to 2012 when you factor in the $51 million Solutia spent in the first half of 2012 prior to the close of the acquisition.
This reflects our commitment to pursue organic growth across our portfolio.
On the debt side paying down a significant portion of the Solutia acquisition term loan will continue to be a priority for cash throughout 2013.
During the quarter we reduced the term loan balance by $350 million and on a net basis reduced our long-term borrowings by $100 million effectively using our strong balance sheet to obtain more attractive funding in the commercial paper market and other sources of funding.
Moving next to joint ventures and acquisitions.
As previously noted in the Fibers section the acetate tow JV is on schedule to be online this quarter.
Our Regalite hydrogenated hydrocarbon resin JV with Sinopec is supported by continued growth in the hygiene market.
When this project is completed it will be the largest hydrogenated hydrocarbon resin asset with a first quartile cost position located in a strategic part of the world.
Working with both customers and our partner we have the flexibility to adjust the timing of this project if it makes sense to do so and we're currently assessing our options.
Additionally we'll continue to evaluate opportunities for strategic bolt-ons.
Lastly we expect to continue returning cash to shareholders in the form of both dividends and share repurchases.
During the second quarter we repurchased 46 million of Eastman common stock and paid $46 million in dividends.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Greg and I thank you for your interest in Eastman Chemical Company.
Okay.
Thanks Curt.
We have a number of people on the line this morning and we'd like to get to as many questions as possible.
[Operator Instructions] So with that Jenny we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will hear first from Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess first off 2 questions on Fibers.
Your volume grew 8% in the quarter after -- I believe it was plus 3% in the first quarter.
I don't normally think of volume growth quite that strong in cigarette filter tows.
So perhaps you could comment on what is driving that strength and whether or not you've gained any share? And then the second piece of it would be the expected impact from your acetate tow JV in the back half of the year as that flows through earnings.
And Kevin we -- this is Jim.
We upfront mentioned too it on the call.
I probably should have said I thought it was very appropriate given the frankly fantastic results of this quarter that the guys who are directly responsible for had a shot at being on the call and getting some of the credits.
So that's why Mark and Ron are on this call.
And with that I'll let Ron justify this question.
Kevin as far as second quarter what we saw -- you've heard us talk about this business having a pattern through the year in terms of deliveries and how we supply certain customers.
So we get some of that noise one quarter to the next and you see some of that in our tow for second quarter.
The -- now we also had in the second quarter excuse me a pop up in some acetate yarn demand as well that helped us with some of that volume gain sequentially.
We've been fairly poor demand environment there and we saw some rebound there as well as some customers deciding to restock a bit in the face of some of that rebound.
So that contributed as well in Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess as a follow-up at the risk of increasing focus on an issue that you think people are already too focused on Jim wondering if you could just elaborate on the pipeline tariff issue what exactly changed there with Westlake and what is your case as to why it's inappropriate and what does it mean for the timing of any action that you may be able to take on strategic alternatives for the smaller crackers.
And I'll get Curt to talk about that as part of the process.
But let me -- well I missed the second half of the question.
Yes I didn't get your question about the effect of the JV.
First off let me just comment that the JV is -- as we -- consistent with what was said earlier but just a little bit more granularity we do have the plant complete from a construction standpoint and have chemicals in it so we're on track there.
As we go through this we tell folks all along that we see the second half of this year as a period of startup getting the plant getting it lined out then qualifications.
So we're going to see most of the impact really starting to hit us in 2014.
We will be selling flake to the JV in the second half and you see that baked into our numbers.
One of the things you won't see quite as obvious in the second half -- first half is we had some opportunities to sell some acetate flake in the first half unrelated to the JV and that'll balance out the "first half second half" comparison a bit.
So it won't be quite as obvious when we see the additional JV the flake sales to the JV in second half.
But I think you're going to mostly see this being an impact in 2014 and following.
And Ron I think you told me mix shows up and volumes as well.
And they're looking at this volume...
That's right.
There's some mix effect there part of that yarn effect part of the flake effect and some tow.
Curt? Yes.
Kevin in regard into your earlier question if you compare the recent tariff versus what was in place previously Westlake has in essence eliminated bilateral movement with the pipeline as well as third party's ability to do exchanges of ethylene.
Through these actions Westlake has restricted use of its pipeline by any other third party beside Eastman.
In regards to timing we just filed our objection with the governing body in Texas and we're still working through the timing.
The good news is we still have various parties interested in our excess ethylene position as we work through this.
But to the extent the -- to the extent that this resolution of this matter is prolonged again it will affect our efforts to get something done.
And Kevin if you're on the Westlake call you might want to ask them what they were doing what they were trying to do when they changed the tariff.
And we'll move to our next question from Robert Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could comment a little bit about the geographic spread of your volumes rightly attributed there -- or characterize that as a favorable trait of the company.
I was a little surprised the U.S.
were -- it would seem industrial productions been reasonably okay relative to the world.
You didn't have a little bit more robust results there.
So maybe talk about the 1 or 2 things that held you back in the U.S.
It's funny in this quarter with how we performed to have anything about something holding us back.
We didn't feel too held back in general.
It felt like a pretty good quarter.
And I'm sitting here thinking I kind of like having about 3/4 of my revenue in North America and Asia at least for the present and the foreseeable future.
Would you want to add a little color Greg and...
Yes.
On North America as Jim mentioned in his comments part of it is just you had lower raws that you had propylene that was down about 3% propane that was down closer to 8% or 9%.
I'd also mention that Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers where they've seen some challenging on May -- on a revenue side about 60% of the revenue is in North America.
And so some of which you're seeing is that challenge as well.
But the remainder of the business was pretty strong in North America this quarter.
Research Division</strong> And could you provide -- I don't know if you guys rolled this up or have at your fingertips but what year-over-year look like in various industries? And I'm mostly interested in auto tire and construction industries.
Go ahead Mark.
Sure.
I'm happy to cover that.
I'd -- what I'd say is that from an end market point of view tires has been relatively stable this year relative to last year.
We've seen some slight improvements in demand on tire demand on Asia but by no means are we seeing any signs of the anticipated restocking events of the tire industry.
It's still somewhere out in the future and there's no clear indication of when that may occur.
In regards to building and construction it certainly have been also solid.
I wouldn't say that this seasonal demand pattern has been as strong as some past ones.
And so as we see this pickup in residential construction in North America there's a bit of a lag effect for our markets like painting a house takes a while before you get around to that step of the process.
So I would call it solid but not incredibly strong from the B&amp;C point of view this -- so far.
But for those key markets again consumables is holding together fairly well.
I would just describe it as solid.
Research Division</strong> And if I may just slip the last one then on the ethylene stuff as well.
Obviously this pipeline can be a challenge.
Is that a 2-way pipeline and then if there's any contract terms with Westlake that could also bust up a deal? Well as it relates to a contract with Westlake as you would imagine when we sold our polyethylene businesses there are various contracts with -- between the 2 respective parties that are not necessarily out there in the public domain.
And the pipeline has the ability to move both directions yes.
And we'll go to our next question from David Begleiter of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jim just on Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers you lowered guidance again this quarter.
What's the change versus what you had back in late April in terms of the guidance? I'll let Ron take that.
Yes.
David I think the view we have is similar in terms of the supply demand kind of picture for Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
And what we're just continue to see is sluggishness in the end markets and as well as some supply that has come on particularly in the resins area and that's just all resulted in a fairly competitive environment out there for pricing.
And so I would say the difference in the last forecast and this one is we just -- we got another quarter under our belt.
We've seen a bit more how the market is shaking out and we're just reflecting that as we look out the rest of the year not a tremendous change in the view of environment from first quarter.
I would say that we still have sluggish markets or sluggishness in end markets.
On the plasticizers side we continue to see in the midst of all of that continue to have nice progress on switching.
If you don't mind just taking an opportunity to highlight that.
We talked about that some but just to give you a sense of it we made the acquisition of the Texas City site sometime back converted a line over -- 1 to 2 over to make non-phthalate plasticizers.
We're filling that out exactly on plan.
It's versus what we thought it could do originally we're at about 90% capacity utilization.
We actually have a lower percent utilization because we've been able to push the capacity a little bit more and have got a second one to go.
So in the midst of all this we still see that good story going on.
But it's still -- we do see a lot of competitive actions around pricing given the softness in the end demand.
Research Division</strong> And Jim you mentioned also a shutdown cost in Q3.
Could you detail those costs and by segment as well? Well we -- I mentioned the 2 segments.
I don't know Curt you want to -- well it's less than $10 million...
Research Division</strong> That's right Curt little less than $10 million.
And we'll go to our next question which comes from Frank Mitsch of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Jim I'm not sure what I'm more impressed with your record earnings or the -- your ability to plant questions on other conference calls.
I can't well -- I don't know if I could be but I'm not on that conference call.
I would be curious just ask them what were they trying to do in that process.
LLC Research Division</strong> It'll be very interesting to see it play out.
On the EVA shutdown in Germany how much more do you have left in the photovoltaics business? Frankly we have left is just going to be some assets we have in China.
However those assets are multipurpose.
We can do other things with those assets and that's what we're going to be looking at is just how do we pick that asset base and maybe support our other Interlayer business and other Advanced Materials segment -- materials.
I don't expect to talk about photovoltaics again on the call.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right that's fine.
And Curt you talked about priority for the balance of the year paying down debt.
And following that obviously with a very good cash flow how should we think about the positioning in terms of M&amp;A or doing more than just offsetting dilution in -- for your share repurchase? Can you talk a little bit more about the priorities the use of cash going -- after you finish making the paydown of the debt? Yes.
Thanks Frank.
As you know we got some pretty good cash flow and feel good about that debt paydown as we get towards the end of this year.
And I think you also know our approach pretty well now on capital allocation.
We're trying to look at across all of the 4 buckets of opportunities trying to find the best opportunities we can.
We are focused on deploying capital for growth and actively looking at M&amp;A opportunities.
I'd also say that our standards for M&amp;A are probably as high as they've ever been in our past and thus we're going to be -- continue to be prudent.
But we are actively looking for ways to deploy capital for M&amp;A and growth.
At the same time we'll continue to be returning cash to shareholders.
Again you can expect an increase in dividend as we work that through our board and share repurchases continue to be a good use of cash.
And as we get into next year we can do more than offset dilution and that will be a viable use of cash as we look across our different options set.
And if I could Curt let me just add on -- so if you back up to what our priorities are our #1 priority growth of the company and in particular double-digit earnings growth throughout the foreseeable future.
In cash the -- we're blessed with this strong cash flow and it's one of the ways -- or one of the things that gives us comfort putting these targets out there.
Obviously I need a lot help from different parts of the world and we've given you all our expectations of what the economy will do et cetera and markets will do.
But having a strong cash flow is a nice cushion to have and that is -- as we go to decide how to use that cash we think about accretive acquisitions our share count et cetera.
And we'll move to our next question from P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
This is Eric Petrie standing in for P.J.
Just on the propylene the propane spreads quite higher propane exports.
Prices really haven't moved much due to high inventory levels.
But as we work through this inventory where do you see propane prices going and the resulting propylene to propane spread? Yes.
So I guess you could -- maybe giving a sense of your timeframe but as we -- let me just take a shot at it.
First off just for the remainder of the year we're forecasting spreads to be slightly down from where they are.
As we're going out as you point out there are opportunities coming on or capacity coming on to export more propane.
And as we look out that there's a variety of views as to how quickly that's going to make a difference given not just the inventories but production.
And so we think on balance there's some upward pressure on propane over the next several years that we could face given that but it's going to be hard to call exactly.
We do things along the way to help deal with volatility.
And propane is -- I think everybody knows we do hedge and we've done some of that this year.
This help smooth things out.
We do still feel like all in that being backwards integrated to propane for our derivatives is a good place to be.
Great.
And then just on Crystex and Santoflex tire volumes seem to be stabilizing.
Where do you see volumes going particularly in the commercial truck market? As well as can you comment on your recent price initiatives in antidegradants from last quarter? Sure.
This is Mark.
In regards to Crystex first we feel good about that business.
It's actually holding together quite well.
Demand has been solid and slightly improving on a year-over-year basis and so that business is continuing to contribute and improve earnings.
So it just -- it's been a solid part of the business.
When it comes to antidegradants the PPDs that we have as we've said before that's a very challenging business.
That's where the year-over-year earnings challenge has really come from for the entire Additives &amp; Functional Products segment.
It has been from this relatively small business.
But we really faced a pretty severe compression last year as benzene prices went up dramatically in the second half of last year and at the same time price competition developed due to the excess supply from the Asians.
We've had some progress in improving price this year.
As we mentioned we've been rolling out some initiatives to do that.
I'd say the improvements so far have been modest.
And certainly benzene prices are coming off or going to help in the back half of this year to the extent that they stay where they are.
But I'd say it's a tough road there and it's an industry that's most likely headed to some further consolidation from our view.
We feel very confident in our position in this industry.
We got the low cost position in the western hemisphere and feel like there -- long term this is a business that will improve from where it is today.
And we will move to our next question from Andy Cash of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Jim Sheehan sitting in for Andy.
You gave some updates on what your expectations are for the full year in 2013 for the various segments.
And I was just wondering if you could also comment on the corporate and other line? If you look at the corporate other line that's developing pretty consistent to what we expected.
Last year the corporate and other line was $125 million of which $50 million was attributable to Perennial Wood.
We've talked about that reduction being cut in half and as well some further improvements.
So I think we've couched that probably around $75 million for the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Could you also provide some more color on your new -- your V-Kool product your Interlayer products? What type of growth rates are you seeing there year-over-year? Sure.
This is Mark again.
The performance films business is having a great year.
In particular the V-Kool products these are our premium products are selling quite well high double-digit earning revenue growth in that business especially in Asia.
So that's -- that part is going well.
Overall I'd say the sales environment in China for auto sales has weakened some but that product is outperforming the industry.
And we will go to our next question from Laurence Alexander of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Walker on for Laurence.
I guess first on Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers what needs to happen for the business to be and to grow sustainably again and how far is it away from tightening? And where do you think profits could get to in 2015? It's Ron.
Okay yes thank you.
Let's see as far as improving what we've seen that has caused the issues here in the last several months has been some weakness in demand and then additional capacity.
So I think the short version is particularly in the resin side we need to see some continued growth and the end use demand soaking up some of that capacity.
And I think it's going to be difficult to call exactly how long that'll take until we see what kind of growth rates are reestablished.
But as to what it takes is we need to see some of that additional product consumed.
We do still feel like we got some good value propositions.
One of the areas there that Jim mentioned is the hygiene market has higher-than-average growth and also tends to need higher-performing adhesives and resins which is what we got in our portfolio and this is the kind of product that we're going to get out of our new capacity in China.
So we're going to get cost position coming our way there as well as we're in the market geographically where we see a lot of the growth opportunity.
As far as 2013 we see the -- as far as the 2 parts of Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers probably getting closer to our original targets in 2015 on the PV side and taking a bit longer on the Adhesives side but it's going to be hard to call at this point till we see a little bit more clarity in just how strong the demand is going to be.
But we are definitely pushing out from our earlier forecast for 2015 hitting those numbers out a year or 2 or so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with the exception of that segment your volumes are very strong across your portfolio.
What did volume grow sequentially? Was this better than normal seasonality? And kind of what kind of volume growth is embedded in your guidance for the back half of the year on a year-over-year basis? Well I think what we'd characterize is the volume expectations for the second half of the year it reflects primarily just lower seasonal demand in our volumes.
I don't think we have a specific percentage out there today but we'll come back you as we get those results.
On the second quarter you -- we always get a seasonal increase in volume first quarter to second quarter and we saw that again.
I mean I actually felt pretty good about the growth we had.
I've looked around at some of the other guys in the industry I don't feel bad at all about the volume growth we had in the second quarter nor our expectations for the remainder of the year.
And we will hear next from Nils Wallin of CLSA Investment Bank.
Research Division</strong> On Advanced Materials have you fully sold out the Tritan capacity as yet? And then if you are expanding my understanding was that originally the expansion you had recently was to basically fill all of your polymer capacity with your monomer capacity.
Does this new expansion require you to expand both monomers and polymers? Nils thanks for the question.
I've been waiting for my Tritan question all day.
It's certainly one the most exciting product launches we've had in the company in our history I think.
And it's grown certainly beyond our expectation this year and we're excited about the prospects going forward.
As you mentioned we are selling quite a bit but we are not at capacity yet.
We still have some capacity to grow at the market but we are moving very quickly to debottleneck that plant and extend its capacity from 60 000 to 76 000 tons which we'll have online next summer so excited about the growth certainly looking at stretching the capacity.
And we also have a much larger expansion and development where we can add a much larger chunk of capacity to continue supporting the market growth.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on the Longview cracker.
If you were to sell the smaller 300-million-pound crackers what would that do to your overall propylene position while retaining your 800-million-pound cracker? This is Ron.
I'll address that.
Curt described our process as selling this excess ethylene position.
We want to retain a good cost-based propylene position to support our various derivatives.
You might recall that the propylene produced at the site is only part of what we need.
We've also got a longer-range supply agreement with Enterprise for when their PDH plant comes online.
All that together will make us fully backwards integrated and propane-based cost for our propylene derivatives.
And so as we go forward with the process our focus has been to sell that ethylene position that merchant ethylene position but retain a propane-based cost position for the propylene.
And we'll go to our next question from Mike Sison of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate you have Solutia's integration going well maybe ahead of expectations as you noted.
Could you give us an update though in terms of sales volumes since you owned it? It certainly -- lot of businesses are a little bit less than we thought heading into this year but maybe frame up where you think the businesses are at across-the-board and what the upside potential could be? I'm going to let Mark hit that because he's closest to it but one of the things he is pointing out to me was to really look at it on a gross margin basis so you don't get confused with the cost allocations.
And I'm jumping down the income statement a little bit beyond what you asked.
But Mark you want to give him some color on the Solutia business? Sure.
As we've discussed in the past going from '11 to '12 we certainly hit some headwinds with the European economy and some of the Solutia businesses given their exposure to Europe.
And that hasn't improved significantly yet but we are very well positioned to grow these businesses.
Overall the gross margin dollars this year will be higher than last year for these businesses.
So they are stable and well positioned for growth.
All the key products whether it's Crystex that Interlayers products performance films have sufficient capacity to support growth and economic recovery in those businesses as you look over the next 3 years.
More importantly the premium products are doing quite well.
So the acoustic sales in Interlayers is very solid growth.
We're setting records in acoustic sales in the last 2 months which are certainly a very strong mix upgrade there.
As I mentioned the Crystex products are doing well and we have several new products in development that we're preparing to launch next year and feeling excited about that.
In Ron's business Specialty Fluids is doing quite well and exceeding expectations.
So overall I think they're very well positioned.
It does require an economic recovery or specifically some end market recovery in tires and building and construction and we need the European economy to solidify and start moving in at least a positive versus negative direction.
But we feel good about it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Then in terms of SAP for the tire additives business great that you got that on there.
Can you maybe talk about some of the benefits you expect to see from that being rolled in there? And one of the earlier ones that you tend get in SAP is pricing maybe an update on that? You hit a great chord for us.
At Eastman our historical growth and earnings performance frankly has been driven by some very sophisticated understanding about our markets and pricing and capturing the full value and using SAP for that insight.
So we've been quite excited to get SAP integrated solution applied to those pricing tools that we've developed into those businesses and are already starting to see some of that benefit.
So we do expect to gain a lot of benefit and pricing insight not just in the rubber business but in the Saflex product range and the performance films product range.
So we expect that to be another contributor for revenue synergies or margins synergies however you want to define it the next few years.
And Mike If I could add as you probably know getting those SAP implementation also then enable us to get those cost synergies as well as continue to pursue additional productivity gains in 2014 and beyond.
And we'll hear from Duffy Fischer of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Jim you've got the $8 number out there and you've talked about it a couple of different ways: one kind of coming from organic growth; and then one using the cash flow.
It sounds like using the cash flow you still feel very strongly that you get there.
How would you handicap being able to get there with just organic growth at this period? Yes.
That's a tough one Duffy and thank goodness I don't have to handicap myself.
I mean we've got a history of using every line of the income statement.
We do what it takes to hit our numbers and hopefully give you a little extra.
But I got the genesis of your question is that you know as I do that it's a tough environment out there.
And Mark was just leading into it with looking for some end market recovery in some of our key end markets looking for Europe to get a little better which was really significant for the old Solutia businesses.
So I would not bet against us frankly.
And as I'm heading out here in a few months I got the highest amount of confidence that the guys are going to do everything they can from our side of the table to make it happen.
But you never get guarantees in life.
As I said you need the economy to give you a little help.
But we're going to use all the tools we got because we think it's really important for our shareholders to keep driving that track record of earnings growth year-over-year.
And that's what separates you from being a more commodity-diversified guy who's up 1 or 2 years and then down 4.
When we start stringing these 4 to 5 to 6 years together of strong earnings growth people have to think about you differently and that's our game plan.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And the on the phthalates and non-phthalates on that mix how much more can the phthalate guys cut price to try to maintain market share.
Are they getting close to their cash cost at this point where you can say that they've pulled about -- or fired all the bullets they can or can they still continue to cut price do you think more from here? It's hard to know exactly.
But what I would say is instead of talking about what they can do I just tell you what our customers are telling us.
They see this as just a -- depending on which one you're talking about how urgent they are but it's just inevitable.
And then ultimately it's not going to be a price issue for them.
It's just a matter of how quickly they make the switch.
Some have seen -- it's just a corporate strategy that it's the right thing to do get on with it.
Others have been a bit more followers and we're seeing that dynamic as well where they may have not have been so interested and they see some of their competitors doing it and now they're -- have gotten more interested.
So I think that side of it is just kind of a near-term dampener maybe.
But all in all we see that dynamic is getting strong and continue.
And we'll go to our last question from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Ian for Vincent.
On Advanced Materials could you quantify how much of the strength was due to auto and transportation demand? Mark? Yes it's Mark certainly.
Advanced Materials had a stellar quarter.
We're really excited about it.
The primary driver of the earnings improvement in the quarter was really Tritan more so than the automotive sector.
So we've had phenomenal growth in Tritan that's very high-margin product for us and it's both volume and mix improvement for the segment.
Performance films also had a very solid solid quarter and improvements with our sales not just in Asia but we actually had very strong growth in the aftermarket window films in North America actually up 8%.
The third contributor was Interlayers in the order of contribution.
And the reason is we see very solid volume growth globally where things are holding together but Europe has been a big part of our revenue as Saflex and an important part of our margin contribution from the geographic mix point of view.
So very solid quarter for Interlayers but not an exceptionally strong one.
The automotive segment overall is growing but depends on where it's growing.
I do want to come back to the underlying mix and the acoustic products has been performing quite well.
Very consistent with our Investor Day presentation our strategy is to drive the mix up have solid volume growth leverage the capacity utilization of this business to improve the earnings and we're seeing all 3 of those levers play out as we've laid out in our strategy.
Okay.
Thanks again for joining us this morning.
A web replay and a replay in downloadable MP3 format will be available on our website beginning approximately 11 a.m.
Have a great day and thanks very much for your interest in Eastman.
And again that does conclude the call.
We would like to thank everyone for their participation today.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Christie.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Jim Rogers Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mark Costa President and CEO designate; and Josh Morgan Manager Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover 3 items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual events or results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's third quarter 2013 financial results news release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-Q filed for second quarter 2013 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for third quarter 2013.
Second earnings per share and operating earnings referenced in this presentation excludes certain noncore or nonrecurring costs charges and gains.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the excluded items are available in our third quarter 2013 financial results news release which can be found at eastman.com in the Investors section.
Projections of future earnings in the presentation also exclude such items as described in the third quarter financial results news release.
And lastly we posted the slides accompanying our remarks for this morning's call on our website in the Presentation &amp; Events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
I'll begin on Slide 3.
And as I always do on these calls I'll take a moment to provide an update on our most recent outlook statements.
First of all we have executed very well on the Solutia integration and we're at the point now where I can say it is largely complete.
Curt will provide you with an update and a bit more color on this topic in his section but let me state again what I've said on several of these calls now.
And that is that I'm very pleased with the success of the integration and how well these businesses and cultures have come together to create value for our shareholders.
Next in July we raised our full year 2013 EPS expectations to a range of $6.40 to $6.50 from the previous range of $6.30 to $6.40 so we raised $0.10.
Today we are adjusting our guidance back down to those $0.10 to $6.30 and $6.40 and I'll talk more about that in a few minutes.
We also said we expected to generate between $600 million and $650 million of free cash flow in 2013 and we remain on track to achieve this.
And finally as always we committed to remain disciplined in our capital allocation.
If you look at how we put our capital to work this quarter and go back to our track record over the past several years I hope you would agree that we have been very prudent in our choices and focused on creating value over the long term.
Next on Slide 4 the Eastman corporate results.
Operating earnings increased third quarter '13 versus third quarter '12 as higher sales volume in the Additives &amp; Functional Products and Advanced Materials segments as well as higher pricing in Fibers more than offset continued challenges in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers and the impact of higher raw material and energy cost.
The operating margin for the quarter was 17% about the same as it was in third quarter 2012 despite weakness in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers and higher raw material and energy cost.
Third quarter EPS was $1.68 and with this level of earnings we remain well positioned to achieve our fourth consecutive year of double-digit earnings growth.
And while the global economic environment remains mixed and somewhat unpredictable our third quarter results reflect the underlying strength of our portfolio of specialty businesses.
Next on Slide 5 I'll highlight our results by geographic region.
And you'll notice we were higher across all regions with our largest North America up 3% as we continue to see strength in the transportation and building and construction markets.
We also had another solid quarter of growth in Asia Pacific up 5% year-over-year and growing 11% in each of the first 2 quarters -- after growing 11% each of the first 2 quarters.
The growth is primarily driven by strength in both our Fibers and Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediate segments as well as significant growth in our Tritan copolyester within Advanced Materials.
As I mentioned on our last call we believe a significant factor is China's transition to a consumer economy and their growing middle class.
And our portfolio is well positioned to take advantage of this transition and less exposed to the declining infrastructure spending in the region.
We grew revenue 3% in Europe which was our first positive quarterly comparison this year and this was driven largely by the Additives &amp; Functional Products and Advanced Materials segments.
In Latin America revenue was up a couple million dollars at just under 2%.
So our geographic diversity continues to be a source of strength for our portfolio and our third quarter results reflect that.
Moving next to the segments in the Slide 6 where I'll begin with Additives &amp; Functional Products.
Sales revenue increased primarily due to higher sales volume across several product groups and this was particularly true for solvents as we continue to benefit from the strengthening U.S.
building and construction market supported by recent capacity additions at our Longview Texas facility for our ethylene oxide derivatives.
Higher volume for cellulose and polymers and Crystex insoluble sulfur also contributed to the higher revenue attributed to increased demand in be transportation market.
Operating earnings increased largely due to the higher sales volume partially offset by higher raw material and energy cost particularly for propane.
Looking at the fourth quarter we expect operating earnings to be up year-over-year but to decline sequentially consistent with our normal seasonality you would expect in this business and higher raw material and energy cost.
As a result we continue to expect full year 2013 operating earnings of approximately $410 million which would be a solid improvement over 2012.
Moving next to Slide 7 in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
Our third quarter result reflects the continued challenges this segment is facing with both the Adhesives and the Plasticizer businesses impacted.
Focusing first on adhesive resins increased competitive supply primarily due to increased availability of key raw materials continues to impact the business unfavorably.
Additionally we continue to see demand weakness in consumables particularly for tapes labels and packaging.
However we expect solid long-term growth from increased use of hygiene products such as diapers in fast expanding markets particularly Asia.
For plasticizers we continue to face competitive pricing from producers who in response to slower growth in Asian and European markets have increased exports to other regions.
At the same time we also continue to see existing manufacturers of phthalate-based plasticizers trying to defend market share.
Taken together these factors resulted in lower selling prices and ultimately lower earnings for this business in the third quarter.
On the positive side we continue to benefit from the substitution of phthalate plasticizers by non-phthalate plasticizers driving demanding growth.
Looking at the full year we expect operating earnings to be approximately $175 million.
Advanced Materials on Slide 8 and they had another strong quarter.
Year-over-year sales revenue increased primarily due to higher sales volume from Eastman Tritan copolyester where volume was higher by greater than 70% year-over-year.
We continue to see strong adoption for the brand across multiple applications and geographies.
And as previously announced we are expanding Tritan capacity by approximately 25% which should be completed by the middle of next year.
Interlayers' volume increased year-over-year mainly due to higher sales of the acoustic product line.
Operating earnings increased primarily as a result of increased demand for specialty plastics products included both Tritan and copolyesters resulting in higher sales volume and higher capacity utilization which led to lower unit cost.
The operating margin for the quarter increased year-over-year to just under 12% an increase of about 160 basis points.
For full year 2013 Advanced Materials remains on track for operating earnings of approximately $250 million.
Next is Fibers on Slide 9 and another great quarter for this great business.
Revenue increased due to higher selling prices in response to higher raw material and energy cost particularly for wood pulp.
Operating earnings were $113 million a nice increase over last year.
For full year 2013 we continue to expect operating earnings of approximately $450 million about a 16% increase over 2012.
And lastly I'll give you a quick update on our joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation to expand acetate tow capacity in China.
The facility is operating.
It's currently in the process of qualifying material.
We did recognize a small amount of revenue and earnings from acetate flake sales to the joint venture during the third quarter and therefore we are on schedule to recognize further earnings from our acetate flake sales and the earnings from our equity investment in the joint venture in early 2014.
I'll finish out the segments on Slide 10 the Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates.
Sales revenue increased year-over-year primarily due to higher sales volume for olefin-based intermediates sold into Asia Pacific as well as improved pricing in several product lines.
Operating earnings were lower year-over-year primarily due to higher raw material and energy cost more than offsetting higher selling prices.
Sequentially earnings declined primarily due to higher raw material and energy cost particularly for propane as well as the timing of project sales in the Specialty Fluids business.
Operating margins for the quarter were 14.5% lower both year-over-year and sequentially but still quite solid.
For the full year we are revising our operating earnings expectations to approximately $380 million and this would be more than $20 million of earnings growth for the year and would be another solid year for the segment.
The next on Slide 11 is our outlook for the full year 2013.
And my main message here is we're on track for a fourth consecutive year of double-digit earnings growth with our outlook indicating growth in 2013 versus 2012 will approach 20%.
This type of consistent earnings growth reflects a few things.
First roughly 2/3 of our sales revenue is in product lines where we have a leading market position.
Second the end market and geographic diversity that we have are sources of strength.
And we continue to leverage our world-class technology platforms in acetyls olefins and polyesters.
So looking specifically at the remainder of 2013 we expect fourth quarter to be seasonally slower the pace of global economic growth remains uncertain Europe continues to be weak but not really getting worse and China is slower in certain end markets including building and construction.
We also expect the challenges for the Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers segment to continue and we expect raw material and energy cost will be higher in the fourth quarter.
So as a result we adjusted our expectations for 2013 EPS to a range of $6.30 to $6.40.
And lastly we added a page and I thought it would be helpful to give you a view of some of the building block actions we are working on to deliver earnings growth in 2014.
So I'm not setting guidance for '14 but I wanted you to have this list.
It's not an exhaustive list.
It does not reflect our views on economic growth nor in the olefin spread but these are items that are Eastman-specific.
So the first category is where we are serving growing markets by increasing capacity for our innovative products.
And first example listed is our Tritan copolyester which we expect will grow by about 50% this year-over-year and where for minimal capital we are increasing capacity by 25%.
It also includes our Eastman 168 non-phthalate plasticizer which has grown by 30% this year and where again for minimal capital we can increase capacity by 15% and are positioned to increase capacity by another 15% in the near future.
And as I've previously mentioned we're on track with our acetate tow joint venture in China.
Second category is improving mix with premium products primarily in the Advanced Materials segment.
And examples here include our acoustic interlayers and our V-Kool performance films both of which have made good progress in 2013 and we expect will accelerate in 2014 as well as our Tritan copolyester.
Third category is technology licensing and it's not really anything new for Eastman.
In 2005 we licensed our acetyl technology to Sipchem.
And then in 2007 we licensed the -- we licensed acetyl technology to Chang Chun Petrochemical.
And you may have seen that earlier this week we announced we have developed with JM Davy a proprietary technology for the production of ethylene glycol which we are bringing to the market for licensing.
We are well positioned to generate revenue from licensing in 2014 and believe it will be repeatable in subsequent years.
The last category we have listed on the slide are synergies from the Solutia transaction including some meaningful commercial and operational synergies.
And we are on track here and Curt's going to give you an update on -- during his section.
When we put all the actions we are taking together we see them contributing somewhere between $0.50 and $0.75 per share in 2014 which keeps us on track for double-digit earnings growth in 2014.
And I'll end by saying how proud I am of what Eastman employees have accomplished over the past 4 or 5 years and I strongly believe the future is very bright for Eastman especially with Mark and his team.
They are the right leaders for the time.
And I'll also just throw in kudos to our Board of Directors.
One of the most important things the board has to do is make sure you have a smooth CEO succession.
And I can tell you so far and I think Mark would concur this this feels about as good as it gets as seamless as it can be.
So very much I appreciate the way the board has handled this process.
And with that I'll turn it over to Curt.
All right.
Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
Moving to Slide 14 I'll review some of our financial highlights for the third quarter.
We generated $427 million of cash from operating activities in the quarter primarily due to strong net earnings.
Working capital decreased by $81 million primarily due to lower receivables.
We also made a $75 million contribution to the U.S.
defined-benefit pension plans on top of the $24 million we made in the first half of 2013.
We continue to expect the full year contribution will be approximately $120 million.
Free cash flow for the quarter was $255 million which is net of capital expenditures of $125 million and dividend payments of $47 million.
Finally our cash balance was $2 222 million (sic) [$222 million] at the end of the third quarter.
Third quarter results were impacted by the $86 million benefit due to an interim remeasurement of our Eastman OPEB planned obligation.
This remeasurement was triggered by a planned change in life insurance benefits during the quarter.
Additionally we also incurred $9 million in costs related to the Solutia transaction and $3 million in restructuring charges for severance associated with the continued integration of Solutia.
Finally our tax rate for the third quarter was approximately 27%.
This is lower than our previous expectation of 31% primarily attributed to an adjustment to the tax provision to reflect the finalization of the 2012 consolidated U.S.
federal income tax return.
We expect our tax rate for the fourth quarter to be approximate 31% assuming no dramatic change in foreign earnings mix.
Next on Slide 15 I'll walk you through our estimate for free cash flow in 2013.
Consistent with our previous guidance we project operating cash of roughly $125 billion (sic) [$1.25 billion].
The full year operating cash estimate includes our projection for continued strength in earnings as well as those items noted on this slide.
We expect 2013 capital expenditures to be approximately $500 million a bit lower than our previous guidance.
The fourth quarter will still be our highest quarter for the year due to the normal operating trends as well as timing for growth projects including our Specialty Fluids expansion in Wales.
So putting this altogether we continue to expect our 2013 free cash flow expectation to be between $600 million and $650 million with the midpoint of this range representing a growth rate of greater than 30% over the 2012 total.
Next on Slide 16 I'll provide an update of the Solutia integration.
As Jim noted we continue to make great progress with our integration efforts.
Earlier in the year I highlighted the successful migration of our rubber additives business over to Eastman's SAP system.
Today I'm pleased to say our Interlayers and Specialty Fluids businesses were migrated at the beginning of October.
This is another major accomplishment as these migrations are quite complicated and our SAP implementation team led by Mike Behal deserves a lot of credit.
And we are on track to move over the remaining former business of Solutia early next year.
While the Eastman team has more work to complete our integration efforts are moving towards -- more towards business as usual as one integrated company.
On cost synergies we remain on track to deliver a greater than $100 million run rate by the end of this year.
This is about 5% of the acquired revenues.
Additional opportunities are being pursued as part of our ongoing productivity efforts.
I expect by the end of 2014 our run rate will be closer to 6% of acquired revenues.
We are also progressing well with tax synergies.
First we were able to implement some of the -- some tax structure changes in the second half of 2012 that have impacted our effective tax rate including the return to provision adjustment I mentioned earlier.
These combined with our other continuing actions we are taking resulted in an expectation that our 2014 effective tax rate will be approximately 30%.
Second we now expect to utilize approximately 2/3 of the $1.3 billion of NOLs by the end of 2015.
All in all great work by our tax team.
From a business synergy standpoint our results are benefiting from improved commercial and operational efficiencies and that will continue in 2014.
In addition we remain focused on long-term product development projects that will further add value to this transaction.
So our integration efforts are going extremely well.
And one final example of that a comprehensive cultural survey was recently completed by Towers Watson.
The results of that survey suggest our 2 strong cultures have effectively been integrated and our combined Eastman culture going forward is comparable to high-performing companies in their database.
So as a result this acquisition continues to be a value-adding transaction for our stockholders.
To close on Slide 17.
We will continue to be disciplined with our approach to capital allocation.
As previously mentioned we expect capital expenditures of $500 million which is similar to 2012 when you factor in the $51 million Solutia spent in the first half of 2012 prior to the close of the acquisition.
This reflects our commitment to pursue organic growth across our portfolio that is aligned with the overall growth in our end markets.
On the debt side paying down a significant portion of the Solutia acquisition term loan has been a major priority for cash this year.
During the third quarter we reduced our long-term debt by an additional $250 million.
The $600 million in total payments we have made since closing the transaction in third quarter 2012 plus the effective use of our strong balance sheet to obtain more attractive funding in the commercial paper and other credit markets has reduced the original $1.2 billion term loan to just $150 million.
In the other 2 remaining areas on this slide we will continue to pursue joint ventures and acquisitions and we expect to continue returning cash to our stockholders in form of both dividends and share repurchases.
During the third quarter we repurchased $35 million of Eastman common stock and paid $47 million in dividends to our stockholders.
Through the first 9 months of 2013 we have returned over $200 million to our stockholders.
So with that thank you for your interest in Eastman Chemical and I'll turn it back to Greg.
Okay.
Thanks Curt.
We have a number of people on the line this morning and we'd like to get to as many questions as possible.
[Operator Instructions] With that Christie we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Jim on Plasticizers and Adhesives when you first came out with the issues first quarter of this year you gave us a number that was lower but it kind of said there was more downside to that number than upside until you got a handle on it.
Now that we've been dealing with that for a couple or 3 quarters do you feel good that we've kind of gotten underneath what the pain will be and going forward we can actually grow from here? Or is there still more downside than upside as you look at that? So Duffy let me make a comment.
And then on this call you'll probably notice that I seem to be doing the shuffle pass quite often because I understand -- my ego accepts the fact that you probably want to hear Mark and Curt talk about a lot of these issues going forward.
But just on the -- on this business segment I do think we're starting to get a handle on what it is.
I mean let's just say we know the problem is.
I think you can still get surprised in terms of how competitors act et cetera.
If I can take the longer-term picture and then maybe Mark will want to comment a little bit about what he's seeing nearer term but longer term -- so this segment's probably going to be down in the valley and I'm guessing maybe as much as a couple of years.
Does it ever get back to the kind of peak margins it had? It's hard to see that it gets back there.
But again we've been surprised before.
On the other hand I can easily see a time when it's performing noticeably better than it is today.
I just wanted to take the opportunity to say when you look about one segment under stress like this this is to me where the strength of the overall portfolio come through.
I mean if you think about it this segment is definitely underperforming.
And yet we're still going to come in for the year up 20%-ish and it's going to be on the strength of all the other segments we have.
And we're still going to hit and maybe exceed the kind of original guidance we had for the year.
So with that I don't know Mark what more do you want to say maybe about the 2 pieces of Adhesives Plasticizers? Sure.
Thanks Duffy.
And I certainly would support all of Jim's comments on this.
It's still a good business and still provides a good attractive return even at these margins.
We're certainly not at all happy with the performance and want to find every lever we have available as to improve it.
But a lot of the challenge we have right now is supply/demand imbalance as Jim noted in his prepared comments.
I'm not about to call it bottom.
At this point I don't think we have yet to have enough information.
But I certainly now see signs that are both positive and negative about the situation.
So on the negative side we certainly continue to see weak demand and have not seen a recovery in demand.
The good news is destocking seems to be behind us which was an additional demand headwind that we faced through this year and I think that's going to stabilize and not be a challenge as we move forward.
So that's going to help.
In regards to the supply side as Jim noted the supply is long but we also see some signs of stabilization there.
Raws in prices which has been the key low raw -- low-priced raw materials that's put the pressure in this market on adhesives has gone up meaningfully in price.
And if it stays at this higher level it will take some of the pressure of substitution of hydrocarbon resins towards rosins.
That will reduce a little bit.
So those things will balance things out a little bit.
On the Plasticizers side this is more of a demand-based issue where we just need demand to start recovering.
If it does especially in Asia it will draw that Asian supply that's putting margin pressure here back into Asia.
That will help.
But the -- I want to emphasize that the strength of demand on the Plasticizers side is quite good.
Our volume is growing quite strongly on the non-phthalates and offsetting some of that price pressure.
We don't have as much of that benefit in Adhesives right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one of the businesses that's been a rock star Fibers.
One of your competitor is out with a pretty significant price increase again for next year.
Price obviously the last 3 or 4 years has been very very beneficial.
When you look out over the next 1 to 3 years in that business can you continue to get mid-single-digit pricing that's accretive to margins over that period do you think? Well this is Jim again.
Let me just say yes it is a great business.
We have a great relationship with our customers and obviously one major customer where we got a joint venture that we're filling that plant out.
We respect our customers a lot.
We don't like to negotiate price with either customers or suppliers on earnings calls.
And so we approach it more of a partnership but I think both sides of the table realized that we both have to create value.
And as we look at the negotiations with raw materials and the negotiations that we're having with our customers and what they value by the way the service the reliability the having the product there the high quality when they need it I would expect to -- this business earnings to continue to grow.
And our next questions comes from Andy Cash with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Jim Sheehan in for Andy.
I'm just wondering your thoughts now on long-term growth.
And you talked about double-digit growth possible over the next 2 years.
And is -- do you still have confidence in that in the context of continued pressures in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers or pressures from raw materials? Okay.
Well you just named the 2 headwinds and we're all -- and we all see them.
But yes I mean our objective is double-digit earnings growth.
We've done that for 4 years.
Let me tell you what gives me some of the confidence in this.
And you're right any one business segment can go through a rough patch.
We know which one it is this time.
We know the raws can move around.
But this company has tremendous cash flow.
And we've said all along and I've been saying it back from my CFO days the way to differentiate yourself in this industry is how you apply your cash.
What do you do with it? So yes we're going to drive organic growth as strong as we can.
There'll be some years where that gets us perhaps all the way there.
Some years it's more likely where it gets you most of the way there.
And then you have to be smart with what you do with your cash whether it's acquisitions or buying back stock.
But that -- we think what our shareholders want and the best way to create long-term value is the double-digit earnings growth.
And that's why we threw that slide in at the end just to show you that there's chunks of earnings we can be working on.
In this case it's a list '14 over '13.
There's other things we do that are going to make '15 better than '14.
So we're a fairly conservative bunch.
We never make guarantees about the future.
Things can always change.
But I like the portfolio of businesses we have.
You see the strength that we could grow earnings the way we did this year.
Even with one of the business segments having weak performance and when I put on top of that that we can use our cash I feel very good about the next several years in terms of earnings growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And a follow-up on non-phthalate plasticizers.
When do you think the inflection point is going to be when the tailwind from substitution into non-phthalate plasticizers is greater than the headwind from some of the lower pricing you're seeing from some of the phthalate competitors? This is Mark.
Yes it's good question.
What we seem to see is some indications that demand's going to improve in '14 over '13 from the housing and construction market the commercial flooring market the key things that drive our demand.
So that's I would say encouraging about next year when it comes to phthalates.
When it comes to competitive behavior it's always a bit difficult to predict on when the aggression of some of the competitors will abate.
But I'd say on the phthalate side things feel like they can improve to some degree as we look forward.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Guys you gave some Eastman-specific actions and I guess I thought maybe we'd see something around the contract with enterprise on your propane.
So can you talk a little bit on it how much a benefit that could be what your hedge position might be and then also any updates on optionality for your olefins crackers.
Let me let Curt start it off.
So let me go in reverse order I think in your questions.
First on the -- where we stand with our efforts in Texas.
We've had an initial hearing with the hearings officer for the Railroad Commission to provide clarity on that -- on the process going forward trying to resolve that dispute we talked about last quarter.
And we hope to obtain such clarity fairly soon and that will help us understand kind of what the next steps are.
So we have continued interest in our 700 million pounds of excess ethylene both on- and off-site.
But continued uncertainty around this common carrier access is negatively impacting our ability to get something done.
So we'll see how this plays out there.
I think Bob you've asked about hedging as well.
We continue to look at hedging as a viable way for us to reduce volatility.
We've had a program in place for a number of years.
Given some of the recent volatility in our input cost we continue to look at what kind of hedging we can provide in '14.
We haven't really quantified that for anyone yet.
There's -- it's kind of early yet.
But we continue to have a good hedging program.
And the enterprise contract is really more a 2015 event.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers I think you guys guided to $175 million of operating profit.
Can you give us -- are you comfortable giving us any sense of how big the non-phthalate plasticizer chunk of that might be? Of the $175 earnings? Research Division</strong> Yes sir.
Yes I don't think we've broken it out.
Obviously that's the part that's growing.
We talked about how it's growing 30%.
I think what you're seeing right now and I think Mark did a good job explaining it you're getting the pressure from the phthalate guys who -- same thing we would be doing they're being as sticky as possible as they give up share and trying to hold on to as much volume as possible.
But eventually I think that wave's going to crash over.
But I don't think we want to go to breaking out the earnings by -- down that low.
And we'll go next to P.J.
Juvekar with Citibank.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
The pressure point seems to be in Adhesives.
The Chinese have added capacity and they're coming in a big way.
I mean longer term do you want to keep fighting the Chinese or do you think there is other optionality? I mean I'm going to let Mark answer this because our plant in China is -- they're -- people are going to be fighting us when it comes to our cost position.
But I hope this is kind of the last question on this segment only because it is our smallest segment.
I think we've tried to spell out for you what we see there.
But Mark you want to talk about the Chinese and...? Certainly.
The challenge comes not just from hydrocarbon resins P.J.
but also the rosins which is a large percentage of the total supply for adhesives and there's certainly more rosin supply than anyone expected this year.
And that's where the vast majority of the price pressure is coming in the marketplace it's the rosins especially with the excess EVA from solar being available that is matched with the rosin to make an adhesive.
And those prices as I noted improved.
If they stay up where they are that takes some of that pressure off because it's less competitive than where it's been.
On the C5 direct competition there's certainly some competition there.
And if demand growth in packaging tapes and labels had been what everyone expected it frankly would've been absorbed pretty readily in Asia Pacific and not created as much challenge as we face.
So that amount of supply isn't the big issue if demand returns to what is more of a normal level and over a period of time would absorb that supply.
So it's certainly an issue but it's not one that's permanent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the automotive market seems to be improving.
Even in Europe there are some positive data points.
And you've seen an incremental tire demand.
Any signs of restocking? The automotive market I think was the question yes.
About automotive demand on the Interlayer side P.J.? He talked about tires as well.
And tires? Yes.
Certainly automotive has been a good story in North America this year and Asia has been solid.
Europe has obviously not been great with another decline but I would say we see stabilization in Europe.
We've seen an improvement in demand for both our interlayers products as well as our tires products.
It's a modest improvement in demand and by no means a restocking event but at least the sign that the globe's stabilizing and starting to get better.
From a primary demand point of view when it comes to tires the Michelins the Goodyears are better to call the restocking of the channel that is likely to happen at some point.
It certainly hasn't happened yet.
That would be upside for us in the future when that does happen.
And we'll go next to Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on the cracker situation.
Can you just kind of walk us through the legal process that you're in and give us a sense of what the next steps are? Timing might be uncertain but what you think it could or might be? Well I'll take a stab at it.
I mean -- and I think we talked more about it in the last quarterly conference call too.
But as you know there was a -- the Westlake made a change or attempts to make a change in their common carrier pipeline and basically we disagreed that they could do what they wanted to do.
And so it's in front of the railroad -- Texas Railroad Commission now.
The one hearing Curt you mentioned -- it's not like you had a hearing and now you're waiting for an answer you're just waiting for it -- to hear what the process is.
So it may not move.
In fact it does not move as fast as we would like to move.
But while you're trying to talk to other parties about what to do with the excess ethylene they kind of like to know what their access is to that pipeline.
So not so much an Eastman issue.
We have contractual rights et cetera.
But as you talk about introducing a new party it's important to them the use of that pipeline.
And so that's an issue that we have to have resolved before we can proceed further with talking to third parties who are interested in those 700 million pounds but we need to get this resolved.
And I wish I knew the timing.
I'm almost betting that's going to take longer than either you or I would want it to take.
But we'll see how quickly they can get this thing going.
Research Division</strong> And there's no legal avenue available to you other than the Texas Railroad Commission? Well I wouldn't say no other one -- no other legal avenue.
I'm saying this is the right way to approach this issue.
That's where we believe the jurisdiction is and that's where we should go.
Research Division</strong> And if it's -- just as last point.
If it's not resolved in your favor there what would you do? Then we consider what our options are.
And our next question comes from David Begleiter from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Jim and Mark I know in Crystex truck bus and/or auto [ph] are bigger impact than auto.
Could you comment on any pickup in that market especially in Asia? Sure Dave.
The management in -- has been reasonably good in truck and tire especially in the back half of this year from what we can see.
And so that's been encouraging.
As you noted it's a high leverage of Crystex usage in a commercial tire versus a residential tire.
So that's been feeling relatively good.
Research Division</strong> And -- sorry but -- if I ask the question about the propane issue.
But can you quantify the impact of the higher propane prices on the quarter perhaps in Q4 and how much that will be recaptured in your index-based pricing mechanisms? Yes.
I'll probably not going to get into it penny by penny.
But I would say to the extent that we had to come back down on our guidance that was probably the main driver of that and still the uncertainty on the Adhesives side.
It's this catch 22.
We move more towards specialties.
Specialty is priced less and less off at raws and so you don't always have that 100% ability to pass-through the higher cost.
We have stepped up our hedging I guess I would say that in terms of how far out we go and how much we do but we're trying to be prudent about that as well.
We're not just grabbing any price we see in the marketplace.
We're managing at the best we can.
It's interesting though when the -- if I could just take a second thinking about $6.30 to $6.40 $6.40 to $6.50 they're moving around.
If at the beginning of the year I had said earnings were going to be up somewhere between 19% and 21% everyone would have said that sounds pretty good.
But when you go back later and say "You know what earnings is not going to be up 21% they're going to only be up 20% I understand the aggravation but I'm just trying to keep it all in perspective that we're moving stuff around 1.5% at most 2% when you look at it year-over-year.
And I'll just pull you back to remember that what we're talking about is driving the machine here that grows earnings double digit year after year.
Research Division</strong> And just for Curt one last thing Curt.
Is that tax rate for '15 -- 30% stable for '15 as well? Yes.
I would say the actions we're taking contribute to that 30% rate in 2014 and I'll also say we're not standing still.
We're taking a harder look at what other things we can do to see if we can better that going into '15.
And we'll go next to Frank Mitsch from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> And a hell of a run Jim.
It just seem like yesterday that you took over a PET company and now you're running a propane-to-propylene-spread company.
Frank I'm going to miss this phone calls.
I tell you.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well we can still arrange on a quarterly basis to have a call and I'll ask for your opinions on what's going on now that you're laying duck et cetera.
During the conversations I didn't hear a heck of a lot regarding -- when you're talking about the 4 bucket uses of cash the JV acquisition bucket can you talk a little bit about how the pipeline's looking and what your appetite is for doing something more in that area over the near and midterm? Yes I'll make a comment and then Curt may want to add on too.
But I'm glad I work for an organization and have a board that doesn't push me to do stuff that's marginal.
So if I can just say we're going to try and be every bit as disciplined as we have been in the past about putting that cash to work on the M&amp;A side.
And it -- honestly I think it's a little bit tougher environment to see good deals.
There are things out there that we like.
Quite often the main issue is going to be is it at a price we like.
We can be patient.
We're not in it quarter-to-quarter.
We can be patient.
We don't mind sitting on cash.
We know it's also a very valid use of cash to buy back stock and so that's something else we're going to have to look at and weigh that and compare it to what opportunities we see on the M&amp;A side.
But I would -- as a shareholder of Eastman I would fully expect that we are going to grow this company both organically and we still will do M&amp;A.
It may be hotter or cooler based upon the environment we see out there and where things are getting priced.
And we're not afraid to use our cash to buy back stock and we're not afraid to sit on cash when we think that's the right thing to do.
Frank if I look at our M&amp;A team it's busy right now.
They're not on the beach I can put it that way.
They are probably as busy as they've ever been because there is activity out there.
I would go in to support what Jim said.
There is probably a bid-ask spread that's still a challenge out there.
Things are -- people got some pretty high expectations given some of the multiples that are out there.
So we're looking at several opportunities.
I think some could fit us very well but we'll see if we can close these bid-ask spreads in this competitive environment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And a question for Mark.
How do you think about $8 in 2015 and your confidence in being able to achieve that? Frank I've been waiting for that question all day.
I'm surprised it took this long.
It's a great question.
We still feel confident about getting to the $8 a share.
Obviously we have to pull every lever available to us to get it.
As Jim noted we have a number of things that we can do better in actions we control to improve earnings as we laid out on that slide in his comments.
There's of course the economy that to some degree has to be there and drive demand.
And then as Jim just laid out we have multiple levers available to us with an incredibly strong cash flow available that goes beyond our organic needs whether it be M&amp;A or buybacks.
So when you look at it I think we're in very good position to continue and deliver that double-digit earnings growth.
And Frank I'm going to suggest to Mark and team we put that $8 up there as one -- as a flag one point in time rally the troops.
That was a while ago.
The much bigger driver is just that double-digit earnings growth.
So you don't think oh I get to 15% and I'm done.
And that double-digit earnings growth whether it's 10% or 15% or you have another 20% year like we had this year that is really the key to creating long-term value.
And I also think that if we can do it consistently you will eventually see it see the improvement in the multiple.
And our next question comes from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of Solutia with the integration efforts largely complete can you give us a little bit of color to what's sort of the next step where your focus is on? I know there's a lot of volume to be had there.
Maybe some comments on how to recoup some of that volume in the businesses over the next couple of years.
Sure.
In regards to the Solutia businesses we continue to be excited and impressed by the growing list of both commercial and operational improvements above and beyond the sort of traditional synergies you get when you combine 2 companies.
So I think we're going to see some real benefits and operational improvements in interlayers and performance films in particular next year over this year.
We're seeing significant improvements in how we do contracting and pricing and go to market and the SAP integration that's gone so well this year.
It allows us a lot more detail and insight about how to improve our pricing and capture value.
And then the long-term innovation product portfolio looks quite robust and things that we can do that's -- even including the crossing of heritage Eastman and Solutia technology streams to create some new-to-world products.
So we feel great about this.
The obvious big challenge has been European demand which has been a big part of their demand both in revenue and higher profitability in that part of the geographic mix.
But with Europe appearing to have bottomed out and stabilized and if that starts to get a little bit better that's going to help as well.
And Mike if I could add on top of that and one of the benefits of the combined enterprises is that continued strong free cash flow generation.
So not only can we see the improvement that Mark talked about in the businesses we also are just generating some significant cash that we can deploy either through M&amp;A or return it to shareholders.
And when I think about the portfolio of businesses we have today well there's just more options for us to explore and put that cash to work.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then shifting gears to Additives &amp; Functional Products.
Volumes are up pretty nice in the quarter up 10%.
Earnings are up 6%.
The fourth quarter looks like earnings growth will be similar.
It does look like being squeezed a little bit there.
Are you having issues getting pricing? When do you think you can get better leverage there given the volume growth has been pretty good? Well first off we're incredibly excited about Additives &amp; Functional Products and how well it's performed this year in a record quarter despite having some raw material propane-based headwinds in the third quarter.
You certainly always see a seasonal drop-off in demand in this business into the fourth quarter which is largely what the issue is here.
There are a few additional headwinds as you noted around propane as that flows into solvents.
And with propylene prices coming off in October it creates a bit of a challenge in the short term on how we can recover some of those propane costs.
I think the bigger question will be what happens in the first quarter around propylene.
There's some debate out there where the propylene prices might go.
And if they go up that would be a very helpful factor.
Research Division</strong> So the leverage really isn't on the tire side issues.
No no.
No issues in the tires.
In fact tires is probably doing slightly better than our expectations going into the year.
I wouldn't say significantly better on the Crystex side.
The big challenge we've had in tires is in the PPDs.
That's been a headwind for the overall segment over last year where price competition stays pretty stiff in that market with a dramatic oversupply and benzene cost being pretty high.
I certainly don't expect next year to be worse than this year.
So again that will be not be a headwind in the next year like it's been this year.
And we'll go next to Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> One of the things I was surprised that I didn't see in the Eastman-specific ways to drive earnings growth for 2014 is how you're going to invest in your innovation pipeline.
So I was wondering if you'd be able to give us an update on what you see or your plan to grow Perennial Wood and surface or cut back on those to generate some better costs.
Yes great question.
And the innovation pipeline we have that spans from things like surface and Perennial to Tritan where we're certainly seeing -- it delivered great earnings this year.
Microfibers would be the one I'd love to highlight because I think it's got the longest term of significant potential of the ones I just mentioned.
I think that portfolio is robust.
As many of you know innovation portfolios don't deliver dramatically out the gate.
I mean so it's not a huge contributor to earnings growth next year.
But as you look out how we deliver double-digit earnings growth over the next 5 years that innovation portfolio is a key driver of our results.
But there's no big thing that's about to take off next year in that innovation portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a little kind of housekeeping.
Would you mind explaining the composition of volume growth in Crystex? Was it new tires versus replacement passenger tires versus heavy-duty truck? I'd love to have that level of insight from our customers about where our Crystex demand is coming from but unfortunately they don't break it down like that.
We do look at the composition of their demand and try and guess that how that translates to our direct Crystex demand.
But I would say that as David noted earlier commercial tires is our bigger deal than passenger tires.
Remember that 75% of tire demand for all of us is replacement tires versus OEM.
So as the OEM market shows dramatic improvement that's not a direct impact for overall tire demand as much as some people might think.
And we'll go next to Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
Just the near term what you're seeing on sequential trends in packaging particularly any changes or deviations from normal behavior in the consumer products chain.
And secondly as you -- I'm thinking about bridge to 2014 any first read on pension expense? And which of your segments do you feel it's a slam dunk that you can grow earnings or segment profits faster than 10%? So I'm going to let Curt start first on the pension side.
Yes.
On the pension side pension expense really will be flat if not a slight tailwind.
And Mark? And then regarding packaging demand that's been disappointing this year for us.
It's been weak.
That's one of the biggest drivers of our Adhesives challenge and it also has led to a little bit softer copolyester demand than we would have liked.
I don't think we have any clear indication that there's a upswing in that demand yet but it would be I think reasonable to expect that '14 will be better than '13 assuming the global economy keeps moving forward.
Our next question comes from Chris Nocella with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Historically you've done a good job of exiting businesses as they begin to have some more competitive pressures.
So have any of your businesses moved into this bucket recently? And on the other side of that can you unlock value by maybe spinning off or selling some of the higher-margin businesses that maybe aren't fully appreciated something like Fibers maybe? Yes.
You were breaking up just a little bit on that.
Did you give an example on...
He said -- go ahead Chris.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes the businesses that have more competitive pressures would be -- maybe Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers something on that line? Yes.
So first of all I'd take the compliment on the portfolio management.
I do feel like the company has done a good job and I like the portfolio so much better now than what we had 5 6 years ago.
And as you know a lot of these changes happened before I took the helm.
So they were -- we've been at this for a while.
And I would expect we'll continue being at it.
But the one thing I want people to remember is a lot of the Eastman strength comes from integration.
So it's not as -- so we don't have all these just separate little boxes sitting out there where you just take it and you put a bow around it and you send it out to the public.
And you can do that.
Some of the companies is doing that more recently.
Maybe they're getting around to doing what we did a few years ago.
But I don't think just seeing a valley for a business like I talked about with Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers is a rationale for oh well the first time they have a couple of down years or whatever they're out of here.
That's not the way we think.
We really look at the value creation and the long-term path how well it fits with Eastman what the integration is.
As you know we make some of the raw materials for those businesses.
Having said that we're going to do what's in the best interest of the shareholders whether it's looking at underperforming businesses or -- I hadn't thought as much about the flip side where you have a high-performing business and what do you do with that.
I can tell you typically taxes get in the way which leads companies to spend which then leads you to say it's something big enough to be standalone.
But the overriding driver I've seen when thinking about Eastman is the level of integration we have and how well things click both all the way from the technology side to our supply chain side and in particular through our manufacturing integration.
LLC Research Division</strong> It makes sense.
And just the $0.50 to $0.75 a share for next year how much of that is from the capacity expansion's bucket versus the other 3? And do you expect CapEx to be higher or lower next year? Yes.
Curt may want to comment on the CapEx.
I -- what we did is we put together a list of projects.
And we wondered if people are going to say "Now put a number next to each one." And we don't want to do that.
I can tell you though I feel pretty good about the -- those big building blocks and then that's not all there is.
I mean we didn't talk about it about licensing but I think our licensing stream has improved greatly with this new EG technology.
I think you're going to see a more consistent year-in/year-out income coming from licensing.
So it's hard to oversell that because we haven't sold the first license yet.
So -- but we wanted people to be aware that we think we're onto something really good here with that license.
But we're probably not going to break out the pennies next to each product.
Curt on CapEx for next year? CapEx it's a little early.
But here's how I normally think about CapEx.
CapEx in normal times would be $500 million plus or minus 10%.
I think next year it's probably going to be more on the higher side of that because we have some growth investments we want to make that we'll be talking through.
And in addition there'll be some infrastructure spending next year because of that natural gas conversion we talked about early in the year.
So I'd say capital expenditures are going to be higher next year.
We'll probably quantify that for you in January.
But even having said that I'd still expect very good strong free cash flow generation next year.
The last question comes from Kevin McCarthy with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Would you comment on current global operating rates and oxo alcohols 2-EH and some of the butanols.
Just trying to get a sense -- there's always been a lag on pass-through there.
Just trying to get a sense for whether it's becoming any more difficult for you to pass along propylene costs irrespective of lag effects.
Sure.
Kevin in regards to the run rates and propylene cost structures all of our assets are running relatively well.
What we like about our big engine is they good great job of running the intermediates flat out and keeping us well positioned in cost structure.
And fortunately we have a good amount of capacity at some of the specialties to continue growing and selling.
I don't think that we've got a utilization headwind or tailwind that's significant in our future around the assets except for Adhesive &amp; Plasticizers where demand is off.
In Asia there's no question that the competitive situation is pretty significant as always in things like solvents and some of the commodity products out of SFI.
And we've seen some headwinds on a price basis in the third quarter and expect some of that in the fourth quarter.
Did I answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes that helps and maybe I'll follow-up off-line as well.
On the -- just to shift gears a bit.
On your ethylene glycol can you speak to the value add of the technology that you've developed? And it sounds like you're getting fairly close on something if you expect some revenue in 2014.
Order of magnitude would it be similar to your acetyl's licensing that you've had in the past? What's the opportunity there? Let me -- Mark may want to add something too.
But when -- the confidence for '14 now -- I feel like we've got 2 horses now.
We have the acetyl licensing we can do and we now have EG licensing we can do.
And we assume that demand in China is going to be fairly strong for that EG licensing.
We're in this with a partnership with Davy.
There's an understanding that we're not going to start talking about the economics around it.
I might have gone too far when I just said that I think it's going to be pretty good and it's going to be fairly consistent.
But I'm not sure I can add a whole lot more than other than -- I'm going to want the Street to think of us as having a stream of income from licensing because we're going to be working very hard at making that more consistent more real.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I may squeeze in one final short one for Curt.
Just coming back to pension.
A number of companies across the space have talked about potential improvement in funded status.
Do you have an early read on that and what could it mean for your cash injections in 2014 versus the $120 million you indicated for this year? Well as you're seeing the improved discount rate is resulted in some reduction in liability and that's going to improve funding status across our plans both our pension plan and our benefit plans -- or I'm sorry our OPEB plans.
And so I think we quantified in our 10-K a 25 bp change in discount rate is roughly $100 million reduction of our pension liability.
So that's going to have a favorable trend and you already saw that with that remeasurement that was triggered into -- in the third quarter.
That's a reflection of that discount rate.
On pension funding what I've talked about is that -- what we're really focused on is what's required under the Pension Protection Act.
And so right now I would still assume that we're going to spend -- contribute about the same amount we did this year over the next couple of years.
Okay.
Thanks again for joining us this morning.
A web replay and a replay and downloadable MP3 format will be available on our website beginning approximately 11 a.m.
Have a great day.
That concludes our conference today.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company Fourth Quarter Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Chris.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are: Mark Costa CEO; Curtis Espeland Executive Vice President and CFO; and Josh Morgan Manager Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover 4 items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual events or results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial results news release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-Q filed for third quarter 2013 and the Form 10-K to be filed for 2013.
Second earnings per share and operating earnings referenced in this presentation exclude certain noncore or nonrecurring costs charges and gains.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the excluded items are available in our fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial results news release which can be found at eastman.com in the Investors section.
Projections of future earnings in the presentation also exclude such items as described in the fourth quarter financial results news release.
Third this presentation includes revenues and operating earnings on a pro forma combined basis assuming the acquisition of Solutia have been completed January 1 2012 that compare postacquisition results to preacquisition pro forma combined results.
More information on pro forma combined results is in our fourth quarter 2013 financial results news release.
And lastly we have posted slides that accompany our remarks for this morning's call on our website in the Presentations &amp; Events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining us.
I'll start on Slide 3.
2013 was an outstanding year at Eastman as we continue to build on our strengths and navigate through challenges.
EPS grew by approximately 20% in 2013 and we have now delivered 4 consecutive years of double-digit earnings growth.
The CAGR for EPS over the last 4 years is 34%.
We had another year of strong free cash flow in 2013 generating $674 million.
And Curt will talk more about that in his comments.
In 2013 we made solid progress in growth initiatives throughout the company.
Advanced Materials or Eastman Tritan copolyester volume increased by more than 15% in 2013.
And we are currently adding additional capacity to serve continued demand growth.
In our plasticizers business Eastman 168 non-phthalate plasticizers volume grew by approximately 25%.
And as with Tritan we are increasing capacity to serve continued demand growth.
With our joint venture partner China National Tobacco Corporation we completed construction of 30 000 metric tons of acetate tow capacity.
And that plant is running at commercial levels today.
We also began construction of a capacity expansion in Wales for our Therminol heat transfer fluids business which is expected to be operational later this year.
Moving next to the Solutia integration.
We began taking steps to ensure a successful integration before we completed the acquisition in July 2012.
We have now brought the majority of Solutia's businesses on the SAP system and expect to complete the SAP migration for the remaining businesses around mid-year.
We've captured cost synergies we thought we would and expect to realize more here in 2014.
We continue to work on revenue and operational synergies in a number of areas and the outlook for those is good.
And we operate today as one effective team.
In addition we continue to deliver cash to stockholders through both the growing dividend and continued share repurchases.
In 2003 our stock repurchases totaled $238 million including $125 million in the fourth quarter.
And we now have increased our dividend 4x in the last 3 years.
Overall in 2013 we continued our journey of demonstrating the strength and consistency of our company.
Moving next to our fourth quarter corporate results on Slide 4.
We had a solid fourth quarter with revenue growth in all but one of our segments reflecting solid volume growth.
Operating earnings are up as strong growth in the Fibers and Advanced Materials segments was offset by declines in Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates and the Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers segments.
And EPS increased primarily due to solid operating earnings as well as a lower tax rate.
On Slide 5 our full year earnings.
On a corporate basis revenue increased by 3% in 2013.
The primary driver again was volume with increases in all but one segment.
Operating earnings increased by over $100 million in 2013 given this higher volume and improved capacity utilization.
And operating margin increased by 70 basis points to 17%.
This is our highest full year operating margin in the last 5 years reflecting the strength of our portfolio and end-market diversity.
Now I'll turn it over to Curt who will take you through our segment results and financial highlights.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll start with Additives &amp; Functional Products on Slide 6.
For fourth quarter sales revenue increased primarily due to higher sales.
Solvents volume increased strongly as demand strengthened in both the durable goods and the building and construction markets.
We also added solvents capacity at our Longview facility at the end of the second quarter to serve the demand growth.
In addition volume increased for cellulosic polymers globally and for Crystex rubber additives particularly in the Asia-Pacific region both attributed to increased demand in the transportation market.
Operating earnings increased slightly as the higher volume was somewhat offset by higher raw material and energy costs particularly higher propane.
As with the fourth quarter full year 2013 revenue increased primarily due to higher sales volume.
Full year operating earnings increased as the higher volume was somewhat offset by spread compression for antidegradants sold in the tires market and continued growth spending in the segment.
For 2014 we expect continued volume growth for solvents and cellulosic polymers as demand continues to strengthen in the transportation and building and construction markets.
However a contracted olefin spread will be a headwind for our solvents business.
We also expect the restock cycle for tires in Asia-Pacific to continue in 2014 but we are not yet projecting a restock cycle for tires in North America or Europe in 2014.
Putting this together we expect another year of solid earnings growth in 2014 with earnings between $410 million and $430 million.
Next on Slide 7 is Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
Starting with the fourth quarter sales revenue and operating earnings declined primarily due to lower selling prices for adhesive product lines and lower sales volume for plasticizers with operating earnings also being negatively impacted by higher raw material and energy costs.
For the full year revenue and operating earnings declined primarily due to lower prices throughout this segment and lower volume of adhesive resins product lines with operating earnings also negatively impacted by higher raw material and energy costs.
As we finished the year and start 2014 we are seeing early signs that demand has stabilized.
For adhesive resins demand is projected to strengthen as we believe inventory destocking by our customers has concluded.
And we are taking actions to reduce costs here including reducing overhead costs required to support the business and reducing operating costs at our Middelburg facility.
In addition we are moving forward with our joint venture in China to build a low-cost worldscale hydrogenated hydrocarbon resin facility which we expect will be online by the end of 2015.
For plasticizers we expect better end-use demand with our customers telling us that commercial building and construction market is improving.
However we expect the competitive environment we faced in 2013 to continue in 2014 resulting in continued pressure on pricing.
As a result we expect 2014 earnings to be between $150 million and $175 million.
Advanced Materials is on Slide 8 and they made good progress in 2013.
Fourth quarter revenue increased due to higher volume for Tritan and higher volume for other copolyesters sold into the packaging market.
Operating earnings increased as capacity utilization improved year-over-year leading to lower unit costs.
You'll also recall that in the fourth quarter of 2012 we were destocking inventory in a few product lines.
For the full year revenue increased due to higher volume for Tritan and for interlayers with acoustic properties.
Full year operating earnings increased as capacity utilization was higher for the year and mix improved as we sold more Tritan the V-Kool window film and interlayers with acoustic properties.
For 2014 we expect volumes to increase and mix to continue to improve as we grow our premium branded products.
We expect volume for our specialty plastics products sold into displays market to be flat as demand continues to be soft in the displays market.
Taken together we expect earnings to be between $280 million and $300 million which would be solid results for the segment.
Fibers is on Slide 9 and they had another exceptional year.
2013 marks their 10th consecutive year of earnings growth.
Full year sales revenue increased due to higher selling prices in response to higher raw material and energy costs sales of acetate flake to our China acetate tow joint venture and higher acetate yarn sales volume.
And earnings were higher as the higher selling prices more than offset raw material and energy costs.
Looking forward to 2014 we expect this streak of consecutive earnings growth will continue.
We expect operating earnings to be between $500 million and $520 million.
I'll wrap up the segment discussion with Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates on Slide 10.
In the fourth quarter sales revenue increased slightly as higher volume particularly for olefin-based products in North America more than offset a decline in specialty fluids volume due to the timing of customer project completions.
Operating earnings declined as higher raw material and energy costs particularly for propane which was up more than 35% year-over-year more than offset the higher volume for olefin-based products.
For full year 2013 both operating earnings and revenue increased slightly.
Operating earnings increased as the combination of lower raw material and energy costs particularly with propane along with higher volume of olefin-based products more than offset lower selling prices and lower specialty fluids volume.
Looking forward to 2014 we expect operating earnings to be between $330 million and $370 million.
The range reflects the volatility of the key raw materials particularly propane.
I'd also remind you that we're expecting revenue from technology licensing in this segment in 2014 which should help negate the impact of raw material volatility.
While volumes in specialty fluids are expected to grow the timing can be impacted quarter-by-quarter by customer sales especially in the renewable energy market.
But all in all we're expecting solid results from this segment.
On Slide 11 I'll transition to an overview of our cash flow and other financial highlights for 2013.
We did an excellent job of generating cash in 2013 with operating cash flow of $1.3 billion.
This is a record for cash flow from operations for us.
This level of cash generation reflects solid net earnings and discipline on working capital which was up only slightly year-over-year.
We also utilized just under $300 million of the $1.5 billion of NOLs we acquired as part of the Solutia transaction.
Our free cash flow was $674 million for the year.
Capital expenditures were $483 million about in line with the guidance we gave you.
And dividends were $140 million for the year.
I would just ask you to remember that we only had 3 dividend payments in 2013 since we accelerated the first 2013 dividend payment into the fourth quarter of 2012.
Looking at the balance sheet.
We now have repaid the $1.2 billion term loan for the Solutia acquisition.
$950 million was repaid in 2013 using a combination of available cash and lower-cost borrowing.
Our net debt now stands at approximately $4 billion a reduction of approximately $500 million for the year.
And we are solidly within the metrics for an investment-grade credit rating with a stable outlook.
Fourth quarter results were impacted by a mark-to-market gain of $297 million related to our pension and other postretirement benefits.
For the year the net gain was $380 million -- $383 million which included an interim remeasurement in the third quarter.
Also in the fourth quarter we had asset impairments and restructuring charges of $52 million.
This included charges for the decision to discontinue the Perennial Wood growth initiative.
Perennial Wood has been a good -- has had a good response in the marketplace but we could not get the underlying economics to continue to support this investment.
We expect spending and other for 2014 will decline slightly as a result of this decision offset by increases in spending for other growth initiatives.
Finally our tax rate for the fourth quarter was 26%.
This is lower than our previous expectation as it reflects the positive impact of integrating the Eastman and Solutia tax structures as well as a $14 million benefit of favorable foreign tax audit settlements that occurred late in the year.
For the full year 2013 the tax rate was approximately 28%.
We have sharpened our pencils given the continued benefits of the Solutia integration and other business changes.
And we expect our tax rate for the full year 2014 to be up only slightly to approximately 29% and we're continuing to work hard to improve it even further from there.
So this is just great work by Vince John and the entire tax team as well as of those involved with implementing the various initiatives that are required.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Curt.
I'm on Slide 12 to discuss our 2014 outlook.
I mentioned earlier that we've grown earnings for 4 consecutive years.
We are confident that 2014 will mark the 5th consecutive year of earnings growth for Eastman.
Our confidence begins because of the Eastman-specific actions we are taking which we expect will contribute between $0.50 to $0.75 in EPS in 2014.
The narrowing of the propane-to-propylene spread will be a headwind in 2014 likely in the range of $0.30 to $0.40.
Although there is currently economic uncertainty we are well positioned to benefit from an improving global economy in 2014.
And the combination of share repurchases and acquisitions are also expected to contribute to earnings growth.
Bringing all this together we expect EPS to be between $6.70 and $7 a share in 2014.
We expect to start out the year slower than we did in 2013 as we face narrow olefin spreads continued challenges in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers and the buying powder that's associated with certain differentiated product lines like specialty fluids.
However we expect to gain momentum in the second quarter as raw material costs decline particularly for propane coatings demand picks up in the building construction and transportation markets and we see normal seasonal improvement in demand across other areas of our business.
In addition the benefit of the Eastman-specific actions we are taking to increase earnings will build during the course of the year.
With the next few slides I'll give you some additional details on the factors impacting EPS in 2014 beginning with the actions we are taking to grow earnings.
We first showed this slide back in October and remain confident in these actions today.
Regarding the capacity additions the acetate tow JV is at commercial quantities today and both the Tritan and Eastman 168 expansions are expected to be operational later this year.
On mix improvement we made good progress with each of these products in 2013 and expect that will accelerate in 2014.
On technology licensing we expect at least 1 license in 2014 and we expect in the years to come we will consistent revenue from technology licensing with acetyl and the technology for the production of MEG from synthesis-based feedstocks that we announced in October.
Lastly on cost synergies from Solutia acquisition.
We ended 2013 at a run rate slightly above $100 million and expect to add another $20 million of synergies by the end of '14.
All-in we remain confident that these Eastman-specific actions will add between $0.50 and $0.75 to EPS in 2014.
On Slide 14 is a discussion of the expected impact of changes in the olefin spread in 2014 earnings.
In the table you can see the average annual prices we have projected for key olefins as we forecast the impact of narrowing spreads.
We are taking actions to offset the narrowing of spreads.
First we are adjusting the ratio of propane and ethane we crack to produce propylene and ethylene from 80% propane and 20% ethane we ran in 2013 to something closer to 70% propane and 30% ethane in 2014.
And given the respective prices of propane and ethane this makes economic sense.
As we've indicated previously we do have an active hedging program and that we do have propane hedges in place for 2014 which will mitigate some of the impact of the higher prices.
We're also taking actions with pricing to attempt to offset as much of the higher feedstock costs as we can.
Propane prices are expected to increase in 2014 over 2013 helping us raise our prices for our propylene derivatives.
Our more substantial challenge is the propane to ethylene.
So given the spike in the propane cost here in 2000 -- early 2014 in the large part due to the cold weather much of the country is currently experiencing the respective prices of other olefins and the other actions we are taking to offset the headwinds we face we project a negative impact of $0.30 to $0.40 on EPS.
Next on Slide 15 is our leverage to improvement of the global economy.
And while there's uncertainty about the pace of global economic growth in 2014 I remain very confident that we benefit from the diversity of our end markets and our geographic exposure and that we have good leverage to improving growth.
On markets you can see that we do not have any market that represents more than 20% of our total revenue.
And as specific markets improve we are well positioned.
So as the transportation market improves we benefit through our tire additives and coating businesses in the Additives &amp; Functional Products segment and Saflex demand in Advanced Materials.
As building and construction market improves we benefit through the company including our coatings and plasticizers businesses.
And as the consumer markets improve including consumer durables and packaging generally we benefit through our adhesives resins and specialty copolyester businesses.
Looking at geographic regions.
In 2013 as you can see the U.S.
and Canada represented 46% of our revenue while Asia was our second-largest region at 28% and then Europe was at 21%.
As the U.S.
continues to strengthen we expect to benefit in just about all of our segments.
We will also benefit as Asia-Pacific and particularly China continues to transition from an infrastructure-based investment economy to more of a consumer-based economy since many of our products sold into China go into the more premium goods that consumers in China increasingly want.
As European economy begins to improve we are leveraged for that in each of our segments.
We aren't leveraged to one specific geographic region or to one specific market.
As global economic growth improves I think the benefit of our diversity would be clear.
Moving to Slide 16.
Another factor impacting our 2014 earnings is our cash flow and how we deploy it.
We delivered strong free cash flow in 2013 and we expect to do that again in 2014.
Operating cash is expected to be a healthy $1.4 billion.
Capital expenditures will be up in 2014 compared with '13 by about $100 million and above the top of our normal range as we have increased infrastructure spending in Kingsport including converting 2 of our boilers to natural gas from coal.
And we're spending on growth initiatives such as the expansion of Therminol heat transfer fluids in Wales as well as our Tritan and Eastman 168 plasticizer expansions.
On dividends we only had 3 dividend payments in 2013 and we'll have the normal 4 payments in 2014.
And the net result is projected free cash flow of about $600 million.
Moving to the next slide.
We will remain disciplined and balanced on how we deploy the cash.
I mentioned capital expenditures on the previous slide.
On debt we will continue to optimize our debt structure within our investment-grade rating.
On joint ventures and acquisitions we continue to look at bolt-on acquisitions.
For example earlier this week we announced the acquisition of an aviation turbine oil business from BP.
When combined this with our Skydrol aviation fluid the product from this acquisition which has annual revenues of approximately $100 million and margins above our corporate average will enable us to better meet the needs of the global aviation industry.
In addition an acquisition like this provides an opportunity to access the capital markets to continue to take advantage of the attractive debt market.
And on stock repurchases and dividends we expect to continue to be active as guided by our board.
In the fourth quarter we spent $125 million of share repurchases and we have continued to make repurchases here in January.
For full year 2013 we have purchased 3.2 million shares for $238 million and we expect to continue to repurchase shares to more than offset dilution in 2014.
On the dividend we continue to expect our dividend to increase as our earnings increase.
I conclude on Slide 18 with comments about our strategy for delivering consistent and superior value.
As you can see we believe the combination of growing the existing portfolio greater than GDP growth rates plus growing beyond the existing portfolio and a balanced approach to capital allocation will create value for all of our stakeholders.
Key levers as we execute this strategy are winning with the customers through innovation and we will bias our SG&amp;A and R&amp;D spending towards innovation going forward strengthening our competitive position through productivity and leveraging acquisition to improve the portfolio.
We're also working to reduce our olefins exposure as we continue to pursue options for our excess ethylene and as we grow the current portfolio of businesses into other areas.
While we have challenges to overcome I'm excited about the opportunities of are ahead and the great team we have at Eastman that positions us to succeed.
With that I'll turn it back to Greg.
Thanks Mark.
We have a lot of people on the line this morning and we'd like to get to as many questions as possible.
[Operator Instructions].
With that Chris we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from David Begleiter of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Mark in your guidance what are you assuming for share buybacks? And why weren't you more explicit about buybacks given that the debt the term loans were paid and I think you had projected that you would be aggressive on buybacks in 2014? I'm not exactly shocked that that might be the first question off the gate.
A good question and a fair one.
We've been very clear that we've always had a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation and we intend to keep it that way.
We're prioritizing all of our investments around organic growth opportunities and we're very excited about the strength of our portfolio and we'll continue to make those investments.
As we clearly noted we still have free cash flow available after those organic needs and after being paying the dividend.
So the third question to ask where are we going to go with the capital allocation between sitting on it which we don't intend to do we intend to deploy it or deploying it against M&amp;A and share buybacks.
We're going to take a position where we stay flexible on how much of that we're going to do between M&amp;A and buybacks.
We think it's a good discipline to look at both the M&amp;A market and the opportunities they present for creating long-term earnings growth as well as share buybacks.
I think it's likely that we're going to buy back shares more than dilution this year.
But as always that's subject to board support.
And Mark if I could just add.
David just to let you know we started the year with $160 million remaining on our current authorization.
As Mark mentioned we are continuing to repurchased shares to start the year.
So we know as part of our normal interactions with our board we'll be discussing with them the size and timing of our next authorization.
You've heard from us in the past we've had a great relationship with our board and they've been fully supportive of that balanced and disciplined capital allocation strategy that Mark mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And Mark just on Fibers given lower raws higher prices and likely higher volumes is there an upside to your guidance of $5.20 on the top end for Fibers in 2014? It's a good question Dave especially given how we beat our forecast in 2013 from the beginning of the year.
We've put a lot of more effort in trying to get that forecast right this year and thinking through all the elements of price raws and volume.
And I think the guidance we've given you is a good one.
We'll take our next question from Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Mark on Slide 14 you outlined some of your input cost assumptions for the year.
It's very helpful.
You also indicated though that you had some hedges in place.
And so if I look at the propane level of $1.18 per gallon is that on a market price basis? And perhaps you could comment on how hedges helped you or hurt you in the fourth quarter and what your expectations are for 1Q given some of the distortions related to the so-called polar vortex.
Yes.
So I'm going to answer the first half of that question around our view of prices.
I'm going to let Curt handle the hedging question.
With regards to our view on prices the $1.18 is based on the forward market curve that we see that's available in the market.
So the other prices like propylene et cetera and ethylene are based on the IHS.
But that's the forward curve for the market as of 2 days ago.
In regards to hedging we do have a very active hedging program where we try and mitigate a material amount of our exposure on propane.
I'll let Curt to add some more comments.
Yes.
As Mark mentioned Kevin we have an active hedging program across commodities currencies and even interest rates.
On the raw material side we primarily hedge propane ethane and natural gas.
Traditionally we have hedged to provide some seasonal spike protection such as the winter or hurricane season and to provide time for our businesses to kind of respond with the appropriate pricing that is needed with that input cost.
Given the trends that we've seen over the last 6 months we've actually gone -- traditionally I would say we would've hedged out 6 months.
We actually are not going be on that timeframe and we might even find ourselves hedging 1 to 2 years out given some of the volatilities that's out there.
As I look at our fourth quarter normally we would have put a healthy level of spike protection in for that.
As you know propane moved quickly in that August-September frame so I'm probably thinking as much into it as I would've preferred.
And some of that has continued in the first quarter.
But we do have a healthy level of hedging protection that's helped us in fourth quarter will continue to help us in the first quarter but more importantly will help us in the year at hitting that guidance that we provided.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a second question if I may.
Mark you've put out an Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers earnings range of $150 million to $175 million or so.
Can you talk about your level of confidence in that range? If I look back at 2009 a credit crisis year I think you had a 12.8% margin.
Do you think that could prove to be a durable low? Or are there factors you're saying that could create a little bit more risk on the downside? Great question.
And we certainly are paying a lot of attention on the Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers business and doing what we can to improve it Kevin.
Right now what we'd say is the indications are the business is stabilizing.
I think from a volume point of view in adhesives we were sequentially flat in fourth quarter and actually stronger on a year-over-year basis.
And as we look at '14 over '13 we expect demand to improve.
The destocking appears to be over so we don't have that as a headwind in this year.
Hydrogenated demand is still quite solid especially with hygiene demand.
And I think it's fair to assume given the worldwide global economy the packaging demand is going to improve but it's unclear exactly how much.
And that's one of the key issues is getting that demand to improve to stock up some of the excess capacity in Asia in particular.
The key uncertainty for us is really competitive behavior.
So there are 2 elements to that as we explained in past calls.
One is the substitute material which is rosins versus our hydrocarbon resins.
The prices had gone up a lot as we talked about in the third quarter call and they have stayed up relatively high.
So that is reducing the amount of substitution towards rosins from hydrocarbon resins which is helpful.
And those prices are likely to at least stay high for the first half of the year.
There's uncertainty about what the rosin crop will be this year and how that will impact prices in the back half of the year.
The more significant issue is just what happens on the like competitors and hydrocarbon capacity.
And there's still certainly adequate supply in the market to serve demand so we don't see a lot spread recovery.
But if spreads hold and demand improves then you can see how this business would start stabilizing.
And even if demand improves we have some room for some spread erosion to hit the low end of the guidance on the adhesive side.
The plasticizer is a pretty similar story.
We see demand recovering in North America with B&amp;C especially in flooring so that's going to help this year which was certainly not there last year.
And the non-phthalate substitution it was expected to continue.
We had very strong growth in our non-phthalate 168 plasticizers and that volume growth will be there.
So I think we feel good about the volume side in the plasticizers and then you're just back to the same conversations in adhesives which is what's going to be competitive behavior as excess capacity in particular in Asia is chasing demand in Europe and the U.S.
because China demand has been relatively slow to grow last year and clearly uncertain this year based on all the press.
But again you've got very strong volume growth to absorb some spread compression if it happens.
Or if it doesn't happen then you go towards the higher end of that range.
And Kevin one thing I'd note is that we're not just sitting here waiting for the world to get better.
We are taking a number of actions to improve this business.
So we are taking a hard look in reducing some costs in SG&amp;A and R&amp;D.
We've got a great project in our Middelburg site that's going to improve the cost position of the plant in the late half of the year.
And we're very excited about the plant we're building with our joint venture partner in China which we expect to be online late '15 which will be by far the world-class low-cost plant in the world to serve the hydrogenated resin market where we have a more differentiated position.
So there are other things that we have going on that improve this business versus just waiting for supply-demand to get better.
We'll take our next question from Robert Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Brian Maguire on for Bob today.
Just back to Slide 14 just as we -- I really appreciate the color on the '14 impact from narrowing olefin spreads.
But as we just think about the first quarter impact just to help us with the modeling is it -- I think that's where you're going to see the bulk of the impact.
Is it going to be about half of that full year number or anything to kind of figure out the cadence of that $0.30 to $0.40 impact? This is Curt.
Yes our strategy here is to kind of give you inputs on what's coming into our full year guidance.
We're not going to sit and try to break down that component quarter-by-quarter.
But you can do the math of where that forward curve is and kind of expect a good portion of that headwind is going to be in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And have you already shifted your olefins units to 70% propane today? And if so does that mean that you have to buy a little bit more propylene from the merchant market? We have shifted the assets over to that mix and are pushing it as hard as we possibly can.
And it doesn't have any material impact on our need to buy propylene.
And we go next to Frank Mitsch of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Obviously very strong volumes in Q4.
Can you talk about where you stand on your capacity utilization? Obviously you've got some expansions going on in the Tritan and the plasticizers et cetera.
Where do you stand there? And what should we expect in terms of overall capacity on a percentage basis additions in 2014 and what your utilization may be? Sure.
I think that the utilization as we look at '13 was certainly relatively high across the company.
And we expect utilization to continue to be high and higher in '14 as demand improves.
It's important to keep in mind that looking at absolute utilization is a little deceptive with Eastman because we have a mixture and flexibility of our integrated assets where we can always run the big engines and the big parts of our capacity quite high and selling off some of the intermediate products.
And then what we focus on doing is growing the higher-value specialty products as fast as we can that shifts the utilization towards those higher-value products improving the mix in our business.
And on the specialty products in a lot of the areas we still have plenty of capacity and room for growth in that leverage on those assets.
So in performance films we have that.
In interlayers both inside Advanced Materials we have that leverage.
And in copolyesters we certainly have that leverage as well.
Obviously in some places we're tight like Tritan and that's why we're adding capacity or in Therminol where we're adding capacity.
So we've got the room to support growth.
We've had some great capacity additions that allowed us to grow that we brought online in the fall like the China JV in tow.
The ethylene oxide derivative capacity expansion we did for Additives &amp; Functional Products allowed us to accelerate growth and will support growth this year.
So a key part of understanding our earnings is that it's not just about volume growth.
You get misled if you just look at the top line revenue.
It's about substantial mix improvement given the high-value products we're growing much faster than some of the intermediates.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say that given the volume growth that you are seeing in your businesses that pricing is definitely going to follow? I think we feel good about our pricing strength in most markets right now.
It's always subject to what competitors are doing.
Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers is the one place where we obviously have some challenges.
But otherwise we feel pretty good.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Great.
And then lastly speaking of how you're feeling how you're feeling about $8 in 2015? I'm surprised it took this long to get to this question.
I knew I could count on you Frank.
So $8 a share we remain committed to driving towards $8 a share in 2015.
From an organic perspective clearly we're going to have some challenges in reaching that number.
If you go back to Investor Day guidance and look at the earnings that we provided for each of the segments at that time our largest problem obviously is Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers and we just had a discussion around some of the challenges there getting it to stabilize and improve.
But that's been a big hit as we've already advised in the past.
But the strength of our portfolio also shows up here on why we like the diversity of our portfolio because you can also see that Fibers is significantly outperforming what we would have guided at Investor Day offsetting a good portion of the hit we've taken in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
And that's always part of that diversity.
You have a view on things at one point in time but the world never sort of cooperates.
Some things do better some things do worse.
But the value that diversity continued to deliver consistent earnings growth.
The second part about our organic challenge obviously is at Investor Day we assumed about 3.5% global GDP compounded from '12 to '15 and that's certainly not worked out in '13 and '14.
I think we see that the world may strengthen here.
And hopefully it will help.
But that's a bit of a headwind especially in Europe with some of our businesses that are focused on building construction and transportation.
And at a lower level I would say actually relative to those 2 things is the cracking spreads being a headwind.
There's certainly a headwind from a '13 to '14 point of view.
But if you go back to our view of the world in '12 we had a bit of a different view.
And the propane-to-propylene spreads aren't all that different today than what we would've assumed in '12.
The real challenge we have is actually propane to ethylene where both ethylene and ethane prices today are much lower than where we were in 2012 on our expectations.
And that's a bit of the challenge that we feel on that side of it.
And we do have hedging and pricing and other things that we follow to address some of those cracking spread challenges.
So those are some of the challenges.
Now we're not just sitting here with that.
We're thinking about how we pull every lever we've got in the company to improve our performance and deliver.
As we noted we have a bunch of specific actions we're taking in 2014 to get to $0.50 to $0.75.
In addition we're also taking a variety of cost actions to improve the Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers business.
And we're developing a fairly robust set of ideas for 2015 that we'll do that we'll talk to you about later in the year.
The other thing that's important to note that we can go back to what Dave asked about at the beginning of the Q&amp;A is that we do have an extremely strong cash flow and balance sheet and we have one of the highest EBITDA margins of our peer set.
And so that gives us strength and flexibility to find additional ways to grow earnings beyond organic growth and we certainly intend to do that.
As I said we're going to be balanced and disciplined in this approach.
We're not going to get focused on any one lever as a solution.
Our job is to create both short- and long-term value creation and consistent earnings over the years.
And so we need to be measured and careful about how we make the decisions between acquisition and M&amp;A -- I mean acquisitions and repurchase.
I think we have demonstrated that we're willing to do that.
Even in the last quarter we started buying back some shares beyond dilution and we did an acquisition as well that's going to be a great addition to our SFI business.
So I feel very good that we're in a good position here.
We've delivered 4 very strong earnings growth years.
I think we're well positioned to deliver other earnings growth this year and next year.
And if you look at that and think about how many companies in the S&amp;P have delivered sort of 6 years of continuous growth I think that we're doing relatively well compared to that group.
And it all comes back to the strength of our portfolio.
We've got leading positions in many of our businesses.
We've got strong diversity in our end markets and geographies.
We've got world-class technology platforms.
And we have the cash.
So we feel good about driving towards that number.
We're not letting go of that as our goal.
We'll take our next question from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> If we take sort of the hypothetical situation where you've got your $600 million of free cash flow this year.
Now let's say there's an M&amp;A opportunity that comes along that would require the entire use of that $600 million.
How will you sort of examine and make the decision between M&amp;A and share repurchases? What things would be important to analyze for you to make the decision to go one way or the other? That's great question and it's one that we're constantly debating and trying to think about what are always the best things to do for our shareholders.
As I noted in my prepared remarks there's the debt market out there as well so it's not just what do we with our free cash flow.
So we'll look at using and exploiting the debt market especially how attractive it is right now as part of funding M&amp;A as we go forward.
But the tradeoffs are trying to think through the timing.
We look at a robust portfolio of M&amp;A ideas that we have and we're continuing to revise and look at those.
Obviously valuations are a bit high in a lot of opportunities right now so we need to make sure that we continue to be disciplined and not overpay in chasing M&amp;A ideas.
The accretion is important and it's easy to get with cash today.
But we need to make sure there's a good ROC above the cost of capital.
So we're not going to let go of our discipline.
But there are ideas that we think are important to consider.
And that then factors into how much stock you want to repurchase this year and be balanced about that.
And I think we've got an authorization that allows us to continue to take out dilution this year and think about doing more than dilution on a limited basis.
And we're going to continue to make decisions with ourselves and our board about what we should do going beyond that.
We'll take our next question from Laurence Alexander of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First on pricing can you give an update on the pricing negotiations or settlements for Saflex and the acetate tow business? And also just on the volume trends in Q4 were there any areas where you think you might have seen any significant prebuying that also affects the bridge into the first half of 2014? A great set of questions.
First on the pricing I think with the Fibers guidance we gave you we're successful in getting what we wanted on pricing and think we're going to have a good volume year there.
And so those contracts discussions were successful.
With the Saflex business I would also say we had a successful contracting season with our glass customers in succeeding and improving our position in the marketplace for price and volumes so we feel good about that business as well.
In regards to prebuying we didn't see that much of it.
I was actually concerned we would see quite a bit of prebuying on the propylene side because propylene prices started moving up ahead of January and December.
But it wasn't as much as we expected.
And I think we did a pretty good job of controlling that.
We'll take our next question from P.J.
Juvekar of Citi.
Research Division</strong> There was a lot of discussion on propane.
But can you talk about propylene and what specific actions are you taking in pricing on propylene derivatives? I think there was an oxo price increase announced.
Are you getting any traction on the pricing side? The propylene side certainly has gone up as you know already in December and in January.
And I think the expectation is for modest increase in propylene prices for February as well.
We'll have to see how that plays out.
But overall I'd say on average we expect propylene prices to be somewhat higher this year than last year.
And there's always the wild card of unplanned outages that have a big impact on that story that obviously none of us can predict.
In regards to the pricing we have rolled out multiple price increases here in January and for February and we're getting good traction and getting a good portion of those price increases to stick both from the solvents in Additives &amp; Functional Products and the propylene derivatives in SFI.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned rosin supply earlier.
Can you just talk about what are your expectations for rosin supply in China in 2014 because that seems to be impacting and giving I think some pricing pressure? And then secondly just in adhesives is that a business you want to be in the long term? In regards to rosin pricing -- you said rosin pricing I think.
In regards to rosin pricing it went up significantly in the fall and it's staying up and it's expected to come off to some degree when the new crop arrives.
The question is does it go all the way back to 2013 first half levels? Or does it go back to a more normal level which would have been higher than the beginning half of '13? And most expectations is that middle ground.
So the good news about that is if it stays where it's at and it only comes off a limited amount the substitution of losing demand from hydrocarbons to rosins is probably mitigated and not as much of a headwind as it was last year.
In regards to what the crop will be and how prices will impact the second half of the year we don't know.
When prices are high more people tend to climb up the hill and seek rosin out of trees in China and it's a bit of a wild card to predict what's going to happen on that front.
So we'll just have to see how it plays out.
In regards to the business it's a fair question.
I think that if you look at our history Eastman has always been very disciplined about its portfolio and looking at vesting and grade specialty businesses and continue our journey of being a specialty company and exiting some businesses that we're underperforming in that transition.
And we do have a good track record.
I wouldn't say Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers is yet in that discussion set.
It's a good business.
We've had 1 year of tough times and we needed some things play out a little bit here to see how it either recovers or it doesn't.
At its current level though it's still a very value-creating business.
At its current earnings level even for 2013 or '14 given our guidance it's still creating value above our cost of capital in a meaningful way.
And so we're going to continue to invest in it this year and fixing it and making it more cost-competitive see how things go and then we'll make the appropriate decisions in the future if necessary.
We'll take our next question from Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In that $0.30 to $0.40 compression from commodities does that include the benefits of your hedges? Or is that exclusive of the benefit of your hedges? Jeff it includes the benefit of the hedges.
As well of our pricing actions that we might take.
Yes.
A lot of people are doing this math just doing how much propane we buy times the cost of propane.
And obviously it's hard to know exactly what our hedges are.
But the hedges are in there.
But you also remember pricing actions are also in there.
And we have a lot of good products that use that propane into specialty derivatives where we have some pricing power.
And so we use that to offset headwinds like this.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then you spoke about changing your mix from I guess 80% propane to 70% propane.
Where are you getting the extra ethane from? Or is your ethane supply now different than it was previously? Because presumably you could have done this years ago if you chose.
What's different? Jeff what's different is it's not necessarily the supply of propane or ethane it's more of the front-end part of our cracking operations.
And so you had to make modifications to enable that mix change.
And I can guarantee the guys are just continuing to look for more ways to have more flexibility with the options of the feedstocks that we crack.
If you go back 2 years ago propane wasn't a disadvantaged stock relative to ethane.
So you had a different mix balance in how you created value between propylene and ethylene.
Now we're in this world where ethane is so substantially lower than propane it's changed how we're think about that and we've been making investments and creating more flexibility in our crackers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I can make a request.
In your financial statements you don't itemize the effect that your pension gains have on your cost of goods sold or R&amp;D on SG&amp;A or at least as I read them.
And it makes it very difficult to know what your cost of goods sold or SG&amp;A or R&amp;D actually is and to compare it year-over-year.
And if you look at the disclosures of Dow and some of other companies they itemize that.
And so if it's possible it would be helpful if you guys did that as well.
Jeff thanks for the feedback.
And I can guarantee you our top-notch SEC and reporting group is listening so they'll come up with good ways to help you out.
We'll take our next question from Mike Sison of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Mark in terms of the tire additives business with your outlook for '14 particularly in North America and Europe it sounds like if I did the math it's going to be several years in a row of that business struggling.
Maybe just some top-down thoughts do you still like the business? Is there potential for this business to grow longer term? Just kind of thought of how that business is coming along for you.
Certainly the tire business is one we like.
It's a great market.
It's certainly gone through some very difficult demand challenges at the primary demand level over the last couple of years because I think the tire manufacturers had overproduced and loaded the channel with more inventory than needed and it took a long time to sort of destock it back to demand.
When we look at 2014 -- 2013 by the way was actually a decent improvement in demand for us for both Crystex and antidegradants.
And we expect '14 to be another solid volume growth year for us in tires.
The Crystex business which is the majority of earnings is a very solid business very attractive margins and we're making a lot of investments to continue to grow and innovate in that space.
The biggest headwind we had overall for the entire Additives &amp; Functional Products segment was the antidegradants facing a lot of competitive pressure.
That's a small part of the earnings but it was a material earnings headwind as we continue to struggle with prices in benzene prices or struggled to improve market prices and our raw material costs in benzene went up considerably.
So that's one we're taking actions to try and improve.
But the overall business we like.
And importantly it's not just about the products we bought from Solutia.
We have some great innovation programs going on leveraging Eastman asset and technologies into this space.
And we're getting great traction with the customers in that space.
So we see great growth opportunities for cellulose esters being used in tires to improve traction and wear of the tires and getting great feedback from our customers on that.
We're also finding very strong interest in our hydrocarbon resins that we sell through the adhesive segment.
We also sell them into the tire segment and see great growth opportunities there.
They're moving from using resins as a process aid into a functional additive for the tread and performance for traction in the tire.
And there's a lot of innovation going on in that area and we're the leader in providing technical innovation in that area because of the breadth and depth of our technical expertise in hydrocarbon resins.
So there's a lot going on there.
We like the segment and we're going to continue investing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And real quick on the heat transfer fluids business you've added a nice asset there with the BP business.
So can you talk a little bit about that? And maybe is this sort of another growth business for you to do more acquisitions? And it's always been a good business for Solutia could be sort of the next platform for you to continue to grow on.
The BP business is a great high-margin attractive stable business.
They've got greater than GDP growth rates to it.
And importantly it's a great fit with our Skydrol hydraulic fluid business.
The 2 are often sold as a package by our competitor into the marketplace.
And now this significantly improves our competitive positioning and what we can offer to the marketplace as well.
So we view this as a great business and a great market.
So whether there's additional acquisitions or not that's something we'll continue looking for.
But right now we're just going to focus on integrating this one well.
And Mike I might also add from a financial perspective this is the kind of deal we like as well.
It's got an attractive ROIC.
It's going to be accretive in 2014.
It's going to be -- when you include synergies in '15 it's going to be high single-digit kind of accretion.
So really nice strategic and financial deal.
And we really look forward to working with BP to close this deal up.
Research Division</strong> Single-digit EPS is what you...
Single-digit EPS just to be clear yes.
We'll take our next question from John Roberts of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Are your discussions to sell part of your cracker capacity on hold until after the pipeline issues are resolved? This is Curt.
As you recall we are exploring options for monetizing our excess ethylene position.
And we previously stated that there are various contractions and other complexities that are involved in the process.
In July of 2012 Eastman initiated a challenge before the Texas Railroad Commission because of the change made by Westlake to the tariff for its Longview Mont Belvieu common carrier ethylene pipeline.
Just to give an update on January 7 the Texas Railroad Commission actually ruled it had the authority to hear Eastman's entire challenge of the Westlake's July 2013 tariff change to the common carrier pipeline.
And if you recall that was affecting rate bidirectional flow and swaps.
So on the same day the case hearings officer then put Westlake's July tariff change on hold pending resolution of Eastman's challenge.
So we're hoping to have a hearing in the next 2 to 3 months and remain confident our challenge to Westlake's proposed tariff we feel good with our position.
But on the question itself yes we're still exploring options with various parties.
But until this matter is resolved it's going to take us a while to get this thing concluded.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up here Westlake has a project to convert its propane cracker to ethane.
Their capital cost I think is like $140 million.
Could we prorate that across your capacity to get an estimate of what it might cost to convert your facilities? So I think you have to look at different cracker operations the scale of our operations because there are different type of crackers quite honestly.
Yes.
I wouldn't do that because all these crackers are very different beasts.
We'll take our next question from Nils Wallin of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I was interested in your choice not to pursue the Perennial Wood initiative.
Would you give us some color as to -- I know you said the economics weren't favorable.
But would you give us some color as to what you saw specifically? Was the market not as big? Was it too -- did it cost too much to produce? And then given that you're not pursuing it what type of benefit should we see from the freed-up investment? Yes.
Perennial Wood is probably one of the most frustrating growth platforms I've had to manage in that it was extremely successful from a market point of view but economically not viable.
So the market loved the product.
We had a great interest and strong adoption-building in the marketplace and it was performing well.
But when it really came down to understanding the economics from the price of the raw material to deliver the quality that the market wanted and the yields of the process the economics were just challenged and it was going to take too long to get to meaningful earnings for our shareholders to continue the venture.
So long term maybe we could have got there but it just was going to take too long.
As it relates to your question around just the impact on that other segment where it reflects our investments.
We -- I think the number is about $74 million investment or loss however you want to characterize it in 2013.
The impact of this is probably $5 million to $10 million net of some of the other growth investments we're making.
And that number will range based on how successful we are with the speed of those other initiatives.
One of the challenges we have is making sure that we always devote our R&amp;D and SG&amp;A efforts to the best growth portfolio.
And we have a very robust growth portfolio right now.
And so we're shifting a bunch of these resources to higher-value opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then another ethylene question.
I believe in 2013 you had locked in maybe 50% of your margins on the ethylene side.
Did that hurt you at all this year? And are you going to do the same thing next year or choose to not lock in those margins? So as it relates to 2013 I would say what it did was actually probably a slight hurt.
But what it actually did is smooth out the earnings profile associated with that revenue during the course of the year.
As it relates to 2014 we do not have that kind of hedge in place.
And we'll take our last question from James Sheehan of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could quantify the impact on 2014 from the technology licensing? We have not had provided that.
We're still in negotiations with different parties on different licensings.
But it's a component of that $0.50 to $0.75.
And we'll let you know more as we're successful with that effort.
Okay.
Thanks again for joining us this morning.
A Web replay and a replay in downloadable MP3 format will be available on our website beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m.
Have a great day.
And this concludes today's presentation.
Thank you all for joining and have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Companys First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on Eastman's website at www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Augusta and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are: Mark Costa CEO; Curtis Espeland Executive Vice President and CFO; and Josh Morgan Manager Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover 3 items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual events or results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's first quarter 2014 financial results news release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-K filed for 2013 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for first quarter 2014.
Second earnings per share and operating earnings referenced in this presentation exclude certain noncore or nonrecurring costs and charges.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the excluded items are available in our first quarter 2014 financial results news release which can be found at eastman.com in the Investors section.
Projections of future earnings in the presentation also exclude such items as described in the first quarter news release.
And lastly we have posted slides that accompany our remarks for this morning's call on our website in the Presentations &amp; Events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining us.
Its good to be here emerging into the spring and putting the winter behind us.
I would like to begin on Slide 3 with some of the highlights from the first quarter.
Business results from the first quarter were as expected and we feel good about our expected performance for the full year.
Eastman specific actions which we expect to contribute $0.50 to $0.75 of earnings per share growth in 2014 are on track.
Some examples include mix improvements in Advanced Materials or [ph] products like Tritan copolyester and premium acoustic interlayers we had the larger percentage of our revenue in the first quarter.
Our acetate joint venture in China is also producing commercial quantities.
And we continue to benefit from synergies related to Solutia acquisition.
Another Solutia related synergy is the progress we continue to make on our corporate tax rate this quarter bringing the rate down to 28% and with the potential for it to go lower.
As a comparison for the full-year of 2010 our effective tax rate was 34%.
We also continue to be disciplined in how we deploy capital.
During the quarter we announced two bolt-on acquisitions which are complementary to our existing fluids and performance films businesses and will help us grow profitably and I will talk more about those later.
And our board authorized us to repurchase another $1 billion of shares and with $260 million of share repurchase in the quarter weve begun using this authorization after completing the previous $300 million authorization.
This authorization further reinforces the boards commitment to returning cash to shareholders and its confidence in our ability to deliver consistent superior value.
Finally Eastman was recognized by the EPA with the 2014 ENERGY STAR Partner of The Year  Sustained Excellence Award.
This is the third consecutive year Eastman has been recognized as an Energy Star Partner of the year.
And we are the only chemical company to have won 3 Energy Star awards.
This recognition is a great win for us on two fronts as it represents both our commitment to improving the environment through energy conservation as well as our ability to reduce energy costs through smart management innovative sustainable solutions and ongoing productivity improvement.
On Slide 4 I will review our first quarter results.
As we indicated back in January we expected to start out the year a bit slower than we did in 2013 due to factors such as narrowing olefin spreads and customer buying patterns for certain product lines especially fluids fibers and performance films and our results are consistent with that guidance.
Sales revenue was essentially flat as volume growth in coatings advanced materials  premium product lines and Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers was offset by lower volume in specialty fluids performance films and rubber additives.
Operating earnings declined by about 5% with higher propane costs being a significant headwind this quarter particularly for Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates segment and also impacting our Additives &amp; Functional Products and Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers segments.
Another factor that impacted our results in the first quarter was weak demand in China particularly for solvents tires and plasticizer product lines where we see slowing China growth results and increased composition in the North American and European markets.
While longer-term we remain very positive on China in their shift towards a more consumer-based economy midterm this transition is clearly challenged.
Earnings-per-share was about flat year over year as lower operating earnings was offset by a lower share count stronger other income lower interest expense and a lower tax rate.
And this result is consistent with our strategy of using all lines of the income statement to deliver EPS growth.
And I will turn over to Curt to review the segment results and our cash generation.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I will begin on Slide 5 with the review of the Additives &amp; Functional Products segment.
Sales revenue increased slightly as higher sales volumes for coatings more than offset lower sales volumes for rubber additives.
The higher sales volumes for coatings was primarily attributed to strong demand in both the building and construction and transportation end markets.
The lower sales volume for rubber additives was primarily attributed to customer destocking in Asia-Pacific which we believe is now behind us and we look forward to volume growth in this business for the balance of 2014.
Operating earnings were down $4 million as propane prices were roughly 55% higher year-over-year.
Looking forward we expect strengthening [ph] demand in the coatings and tires markets generally will be a benefit.
However higher year-over-year propane costs will continue to be challenged carrying into the second quarter.
So we expect these higher costs will not be a factor in the second half of the year.
In addition we are investing roughly $10 million in our tire business for the year.
This is primarily to support enhancements in the technology for our market-leading Crystex product line and we expect this investment to begin ramping up in the second quarter.
And we are seeing increasing competition for solvents primarily due to the impact of economic weakness in China.
As a result we continue to expect operating earnings will be between $410 million and $430 million for the year.
Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers is next on Slide 6.
Year over year revenue was flat as tire volume was offset by lower selling prices.
Volume increased for adhesive resins as the hygiene and packaging markets strengthened and in the year ago quarter there was customer inventory destocking.
Pricing decline for both adhesive resins and plasticizers due to increased competitive pressures.
Operating earnings declined slightly year-over-year with lower selling prices and higher propane costs offsetting lower operating costs and volume growth.
Given the challenge that adhesives and plasticizers experienced in 2013 I thought I would provide some sequential comments for this segment.
Sequentially revenue increased more than 7% with volume gains in adhesive resins driven by a competitor outage and some seasonality and volume gains in plasticizers due to continued substitution of phthalate plasticizers with non-phthalate plasticizers and seasonality.
Operating earnings increased sequentially primarily due to the volume growth in adhesives resins.
Looking at the full-year 2014 we expect end markets including hygiene packaging and building and construction to have stronger demand.
However we do not expect the competitor outages that occurred earlier part of the year to continue into the second half.
We are also expecting increased competition from adhesive resins capacity being added by a competitor.
As a result we continue to expect adhesives and plasticizers earnings to be between $150 million and $175 million for the year.
Moving next to Advanced Materials on Slide 7.
Revenue was relatively unchanged while operating earnings increased.
For revenue higher sales volume for Tritan copolyesters and premium acoustic interlayers was offset by lower performance films volume due to a plan change in customer incentive terms in Asia-Pacific shifting volume to second and third quarters.
The increase in operating earnings was primarily due to lower unit costs especially for copolyesters resulting from higher capacity utilization partially offset by lower volume and lower capacity utilization in performance films.
Additionally product mix improvements continue to be a source of earnings growth for this segment and that was reflected in this quarter's results with the previously noted growth in Tritan and premium acoustic interlayers.
Looking at the full year we continue to expect volumes to increase and product mix to improve as we grow our premium branded products including Tritan premium acoustic interlayers and performance films.
As a result we expect earnings to be between $280 million and $300 million which would be strong growth.
Next up is Fibers on Slide 8.
Sales revenue increased as higher selling prices were partially offset by lower sales volume.
The lower volume was primarily in acetate tow due to customer buying patterns and additional industry capacity including our joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation which is now producing commercial quantities.
This was partially offset by acetate flake sales volume to the joint venture.
We anticipate buying [ph] patterns for acetate tow will return to more normal levels beginning in the second quarter.
Operating earnings increased as the higher selling prices and the sales of flake to the JV were partially offset by the lower acetate tow volume.
For the full year Fibers is on track for operating earnings between $500 million and $520 million.
I will finish up the segment reviews with Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates on Slide 9.
Sales revenue decreased primarily due to lower volume which was mostly offset by higher prices.
The lower sales volume was in both specialty fluids and other intermediates.
The lower sales volume in specialty fluids was primarily due to the timing of customer project completions.
The higher selling prices were primarily due to more sales of higher priced specialty fluids and higher raw material and energy costs.
Operating earnings declined due to higher raw material energy costs lower volume and cost of a weather related outage at our Longview Texas facility.
For the company the weather related outage in Longview had about an $8 million negative impact on the first quarter's and there will be a smaller impact that will carry into the second quarter.
Looking at the full year we expect higher raw material and energy costs will continue to be a challenge.
We also expect some of our license activities to be completed in 2015 as opposed to during 2014.
And were expecting specialty fluids volumes to be down for the year as the slowdown in China negatively impacts the rate of construction for new chemical plants.
As a result we are expecting operating earnings will likely be towards the lower end of the range of $330 million to $370 million that we provided in January.
On Slide 10 I will cover some of our other financial highlight for the quarter.
We used operating cash of $30 million in the first quarter which was in line with our expectations.
Net earnings were solid and we had our normal seasonal working capital increased for receivables and inventory.
Moving to free cash flow you see it was a negative $205 million in what is typically our seasonally lowest quarter for the free cash flow.
Capital expenditures at $122 million is in line with our expectation for full-year 2004 capital expenditures of approximately $600 million.
And we paid our dividend which was $53 million in the quarter.
We also repurchased $260 million in outstanding shares during the first quarter completing our prior authorization and using approximately $100 million of the new $1 billion authorization announced in February.
With our first quarter results we're on track for the full-year free cash flow of approximately $600 million.
I would note this expectation does not include the cash impact of any acquisition related costs.
Lastly our tax rate for the first quarter was just over 28% a nice improvement over our previous guidance reflecting continuing benefits from the integration of Eastman and Solutia business operations and our underlying legal entity structures.
We currently expect our tax rate for the full-year to be approximately 28%.
We are continuing our efforts with Solutia operation which could possibly result in a slightly lower effective tax rate going forward.
Further the effective tax rate excludes the benefits of any tax extenders in 2014 should our legislators be kind enough to extend them in this calendar year.
With that though I'll turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Curt.
I am on Slide 11 to discuss our full-year 2014 outlook.
Our first quarter earnings were solid start to the year putting us on track to meet our previous expectations.
We continue to expect that Eastman- specific actions will continue to contribute $0.50 to $0.75 for the year.
As we previously guided the benefits of these actions should increase over the course of the year and be more significant in the second half.
We also haven't seen anything that changes our view on the impact of nearing olefin spreads on 2014 earnings.
We still expect to be between $0.30 and $0.40 with more of the impacts in the first half given how high propane prices were at the beginning of the year.
We start out the year with flat revenue and we expect global economic growth to be lackluster this year.
However second quarter revenue started out very strong.
And with that and the expectations that will gain momentum this year our revenue growth for the full year should be consistent with global GDP growth.
Well see economic growth improve globally from where it is now and particularly in end markets such as transportation building construction and consumables we have leveraged to that growth.
And we will continue to benefit from a disciplined approach to capital allocation including share repurchases and bolt-on acquisitions we have announced.
As a result we continue to expect 2014 EPS to be between $6.70 and $7.00 per share.
Turning next to Slide 12 we remain committed to our strategy of delivering consistent earnings growth from a portfolio especially businesses that we will grow through both organic efforts and acquisitions at the heart of our strategy sustaining our earnings and growth in our core businesses that provides cash flow to deliver consistent growth.
With two thirds of our sales revenue coming from product lines where we have the number one or two position we are well positioned in leading these markets including how we continue to innovate and win with our customers.
Our growth in Tritan premium acoustics are great examples of this success.
At the foundation of our success is our world-class technologies and integrated nature of our streams which gives us an advantage.
Were well positioned to leverage our world-class technology platforms in cellulose polyesters olefins and PVB into new applications as we address global macro trends such as energy efficiency in emerging class and a move towards increased health and wellness.
Were seeing great promise in several of our top organic growth platforms such as microfibers cellulose for tires and polyesters for coatings.
Further our significant stream integration not only gives us the cost advantage but enables flexibility in how we manage our portfolio to flex where we can have the highest margins.
The expectations we have for this year and beyond indicate they were making great progress implementing the strategy which should enable us to drive growth above GDP in the long-term while maintaining our industry average margins  industry above average margins.
And more importantly this strategy delivers very strong free cash flow enables us to continue our balanced approach to capital allocation to create shareholder value.
On Slide 13 is a nerve review of the bolt-on acquisitions we announced during this quarter.
Starting with the BP aviation turbine engine oil business we expect this acquisition will close in the second quarter and will be slightly accretive to 2014 earnings with high single digit EPS accretion in 2015.
Results from this acquisition will be reported in specialty fluids intermediate segment and 2013 annual revenues were approximately $100 million.
With this acquisition we will grain a growing and nicely profitable business that aligns well with our existing Skydrol Aviation Fluids Business.
As a result well be better able to meet the needs of the global aviation industry which we expect will result in growth above GDP.
Next is Commonwealth Laminating and Coating or CLC.
We expect this acquisition will close during the second half of the year and will be accretive in the first full year after close.
Results from this acquisition will be reported in advanced material segment and as with the BP acquisition 2013 revenues were approximately $100 million annual.
With this acquisition we will extend our performance films global product offerings for solar control window film and protective film applications expanding our portfolio and our customer base.
We also gain efficiencies to better utilization of our manufacturing assets.
These acquisitions are examples of Eastman deploying capital to businesses where we have our leadership position in order to strengthen our position and accelerate growth and we are very confident that the returns from these acquisitions will be consistent with our expectation of value creating spread above the cost to capital.
Next is capital allocation on Slide 14.
And in the first quarter we continue to demonstrate our commitment to disciplined capital allocation.
Starting with capital expenditures we are in track for approximately $600 million in 2014 and we are spending on specialty products that will contribute to earnings growth this year such as Tritan expansion and the Therminol specialty fluids expansion of wells expected to start later this year or early 2015.
Moving next to debt after repaying the term loan from Solutia acquisition last year our remaining debt maturities are attractive and our profile is consistent with our investment grade company.
On joint ventures and acquisitions we are continuing to look for additional acquisitions but the market remains floppy.
And on the trading cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases we did both in the quarter.
We expect to continue to repurchase shares for the balance for the year but expect the pace to moderate from the first quarter levels.
And on the dividend it continues to be reasonable for investors expect that dividends will increase of their earnings.
Lastly this morning Im pleased to announce that were hosting an Investor Day in New York on Thursday November 6.
Weve been on quite a journey over the last decade to get to where we have a portfolio especially businesses with leading positions and product lines that represent two thirds of our revenue.
Weve delivered four consecutive earnings growth  years of growth and are poised for a fifth year in 2014.
The main purpose of our Investor Day this year will be for our senior management share with you our strategy for building on its foundation to grow earnings for the years to come.
Well be sending more detail shortly I hope you all be able to join us with that Ill turn it back to Greg.
Okay thanks Mark.
We have a lot of people on the line this morning and we'd like to get to as many questions as possible.
So please limit yourself to one question and one follow up.
With that Augusta we are ready for questions.
Yes good morning.
Mark can you discuss how your volume wouldve trended on a monthly basis through the quarter recognizing you have the outage at long view? And then how youre order books were shaping up for April? Good morning Kevin.
The order trend as you might expect from our guidance trended upward from January through March.
So January and February are softer than we expected due to all the factors that we mentioned and then we saw you know some good improvement in margin and even further strength in April.
Okay.
And then secondly on the adhesives and plasticizers you indicated some issues there how would you compare the sequential improvement to a normal seasonal pattern and to maybe can provide a little bit more color on the various issues plasticizer pricing and how you see that playing out through the year? Sure the adhesive and plasticizer segment I would describe as stabilizing this year and along lines of what we expected.
So on the adhesive side these talking seems to be over when we put it behind us last year and weve saw some reasonable improvement in demand in adhesives around packing hygiene in particular hygiene and that was a good source of strength for us in the demand improvement.
I would also note though that last year was an easy comp where was a little bit of destocking in adhesives as the market loosened up and people are dumping safety stock in Q1 2013.
Overall demand came in nicely and we were also given an additional bump in demand because one of the key competitors in this market had several supply issues that drove some demand our way as well.
But that continues to be solid strong growing market and we continue to expect to do so and look forward to that demand.
On the pricing side with adhesives Id say that the pricing discipline has stabilized for the first half of the year from what we can see rather than prices went up considerably and are staying relatively high which is the key alternative material to hydrocarbon resins but we do expect some moderation rather than prices towards the back of the year because we can see people are climbing up the trees in China and up to mountain in China to tap the trees and expect a bit of a better raising crop this year and one of our competitors in hydrogen hydrocarbon business is bringing some capacity online well be looking to fill that out in the back half of the year.
Thats helpful thanks a lot.
I just want to make sure that I answered your plasticizer question too Kevin which is demand there is improving and quite strong.
We see an acceleration and substitution towards 168 non-phthalate plasticizers especially with prop 65 in California naming DIMP as a product of concern for health effects were already seeing some strong moment there.
So the demands good there but we continue to face competitor challenges on pricing in plasticizers as a result of Asia Pacific demand being week and competitor from Asia looking to place material in Europe and North America.
Thanks Mark.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning.
If you could talk a little bit about the  I may have missed when you talked about the film Customer Incentives in Asia that is one of issue or is it something that is a sustainable change.
It's a sustainable change in our shifting to customer order pattern where we hope to be more in line with demand and production through the season which is predominately strong in second and third quarter.
We had some customers who are loading up in the beginning of the year and then are buying much and were trying to smooth out the production patterns.
So we expect that demand will be solid and on track for performance films for the year it just as a slightly different shape and that will be the case in the future years.
I think thats kind of rubber market and particularly in tires we saw some pretty good macro data out there and I guess if that was evident I didnt notice it in your trends are there something going around buying patterns for rubber additives that we would have missed some of that better macro data during the quarter? No its not a buying pattern shift.
This was more of a destocking issue.
In Asia Pacific we had a number of customers who had built more inventory than they needed through the end of last year and entire demand was not great over in Asia Pacific.
And you have remembered that were highly leveraged commercial truck and tire demand as oppose to passenger tires.
And we saw a lot of destocking I think some of our  other suppliers to this industry saw a similar kind of event in Asia Pacific.
But demand has already started to improve pretty dramatically relative to where we were in January and February across all the regions.
So we feel good about the year from the demand point of view.
Got it its helpful.
Thank you.
Good morning and nice start to the year.
Thank you.
I just want to follow up also on this the non-phthalate and phthalate switching plasticizers side obviously you had tasted some issues with phthalate guys dropping price to maintain share and that was capping your business.
But now youre talking about some of the regulatory issues that are driving your business and how should we think about that switch going forward and the concerns from the competitor behavior from the phthalate guys? Its a good question Frank.
And as we look at were very confident in the demand growth on non-phthalate plasticizers in North America and Europe in particular is going to be quite strong into the future.
Were only a small percentage of the total plasticizers market at this point so there is plenty of room for growth and this prop 65 event in California has pushed the number of customers over into finally switching they all knew was coming and this was sort of  this rather broke the camel back we think.
So on the demand side we feel quite good but its important to note that on the competitive side we still see a lot of competition in which weak demand in Asia there is still lot of price pressure in this business and with this large amount of demand growth we would expect other competitors to switch into trying to make non-phthalate plasticizers on a long-term basis.
So great growth competitor pressure still solid attractive business and the overall segment earnings well above the cost of capital for the business even though its earnings wed like to improve from where we are today.
All right great.
Obviously thats agents of the guidance of the 150 to 175 for that business which kind of teams on the light side but well see how the year progresses.
And then I also want to follow up on that $0.50 to $0.75 of Eastman specific actions that you guys are taking on the capacity expansion improved mix tech licensing and synergies.
On the tech licensing I thought I heard you suggest that some of that might be slipping in to 2015 I dont know if I heard that correctly can you expand upon that? And how are you feeling about that $0.50 to $0.75 for 2014? Frank you heard correctly.
The license was part of the $0.50 to $0.75 and the reason you had so much of range of $0.50 to $0.75 was some of the uncertainty we had around licensing on what would happen.
So that would be pushing us towards the lower in to that.
But I would also recognize Curtis tax department as delivering another solution related synergy on continuing to find ways to improve our taxes.
And therefore earnings per share and I think as Curt noted were guiding 28 but we have good chance of improving that number and continuing to deliver better EPS growth through that synergy.
I want to remind you Frank all those factors that some of the improvement that are specific Eastman actions like our expansion of Tritan in the a second half for the year.
So we feel good about whats in $0.50 to $0.75 as it relates to things we control other than the licensing which were at to some extent we have to work with our license fees.
But its really baked in well to our overall guidance for the year.
All right so that probably makes $8 a little bit easier for 2015.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Frank.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
One is on Europe; a lot of your competitors have noted how strong Europes been from a volume perspective and rebound in the economy there.
It seems like your revenues were pretty flat year-over-year.
So is there a mix effect is there something different thats going out that youre seeing then others? I would say we feel good about Europe being solid.
I wouldnt describe it as a strong volume growth for us.
Im not sure which competitors were discussing strong Europe growth in which segments.
What I can tell you is that were seeing good strong growth in automotive demand related to our Saflex products were seeing good recovery and strength in the tire related demand and feel good about that.
So its pretty much in line with our expectations.
Got it.
And then just on the closure of the performance film factory in Taiwan.
Was that because of poor costs or demand what was the reason for that closure? Yeah well we look that as ways to satisfy our business and I would say some of our demand for that Saflex probably is not as strong as we anticipated.
So we really took these actions for twofold one is to respond to that expected demand but also then to improve our costs support service.
Great thanks very much.
Hi good morning.
Good morning John.
Could you tell us what the next step are in the Westlake pipeline dispute and just give us an updated and status of any efforts to monetize assets long you? Well Ill start and Im going to ask Josh just to remind people where we stand with that  what is our excess ethylene position in Westlake we have the taxes but we continue to explore options for monetizing our excess ethylene Josh could just remind everyone on phone what that is?  Sure.
This is Josh John.
So the size of this were talking about around 700 million pounds of excess ethylene that we sell to the market every year.
So there is a various contractual and other complexities involved as we talked about.
One of those complexities continues to be with our dispute with Westlake.
We continue to feel good about our position.
The next step is really the Texas Railroad Commission is going to be holding a hearing the next year here is coming up in May.
So until we continue to progress with the those actions well continue to try to monitor the situation.
We still have people interested in that excess ethylene position but this just down now a matter of timing to get these results satisfactory.
And then as a follow up do you expand you propane hedge at all during the quarter and could you give us an update on that? Sure.
As I mentioned at the last call given the volatility in propane and some of our other input costs we modified our commodity hedging program to extent up to a potential two years rather in the past we can only look at six months as winter spike protection and ultimately our goals to remove volatility of costs.
I would say were already actively executing out program and also were much further along this year then we were at this point last year.
So the only thing thats different year-over-year as I mentioned before we dont have any hedges on emergence of ethylene sales but I feel very good about our steps that were taking to protect some of our input costs over the next couple of years.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Can you remind me whats in the other segment and what actually happened in the quarter that may they come in better? Sure.
If you look at the other segment thats a reflection of both some of our corporate growth spending thats not specific to any individual business as well as some of our pension cost that are not allocated to a segment.
When you look at the performance in the first quarter really couple of factors going on one is there are some lower cost based on some of the actions we took last year reducing some specific programs.
We knew that some of those costs were going to go in to some other segments as we supported those growth efforts and thats why being done so it might have reduced other segment but its being felt in other areas of the businesses.
And then some of our gross spending is probably off to a opt to a little slower start then we anticipated but thats good cost discipline and aligned with what were trying to achieve but I would expect our corporate growth spending to increase during the course of the year but when I look at all those pieces together or other segment for the year well probably be more 55 million versus what I provided earlier in the year.
I just add its important to keep Curtis comment about some of those resource is being deployed to other segment which matched a bit of the earnings growth thats going on in some this other segment as were wrapping up and working on some critical growth programs for the future of the company especially AFP and AM.
So just its important to keep that in mind as youre looking at the year-over-year comps.
Okay thanks very much.
Hi good morning.
You spoke about improving your tax position.
Does this change for cash taxes and if it does change for cash taxes by what percent? I would say the changes that were making on the effective tax rate also impact our cash taxes.
These are real savings both in 2014 and going forward.
So the things were putting in place are things that will help Eastman for many years to come.
The cash tax rate that is more  the change would be more in line with the change in the effective tax rates.
So if you go down to 29% to 28% rate youll improve cash taxes by that same percentage point.
And then as we improve it further and Im confident well improve it just the order of magnitude that will have the same impact on cash.
The main factor going on right this year on cash taxes continues to the NOL that were utilizing from the Solutia integration and that will continue this year and next year.
Right.
And you also said that this $0.30 to $0.40 headwind from propane how much of the $0.30 to $0.40 was in the first quarter?  $0.30 to $0.40 that we talked about we said predominantly was going to be in the first half of the year and thats what were experiencing Jeff.
Right I know that but how much is in the first quarter? Were going to see a fair bit in the first half and its probably a weighted a little bit more towards first quarter than second quarter.
Okay thank you very much.
Yes good morning.
First questions the continuing kind of the propane  if we look at the conversation propylene to your propylene derivatives how successful on the commodity part of that have you been in getting price you know with the run up in propane over the last six months?  On the propane to propylene side of the equation we actually feel quite good about how weve managed the pressures in the first quarter and what we expect in the second quarter.
Obviously theres some pressure there but propylene prices have been a little bit higher than last year giving us the ability to price in the marketplace and on the commodity side in particular I think weve done a good job of holding on to our pricing and doing well there.
So that part feels good.
The real challenge we face is more on the propane to ethylene side as I noted in the last call where ethylene prices are obviously  considerably lower than what we would have expected at the Investor Day in 2012 for example and so the pressure is more on the bulk olefins and some of the ethylene special derivatives.
Okay thank you.
And then on the comments you made around your new JV and acetate tow can you talk about the dynamics? It seems like youre kind of cannibalizing some of your old tow sales but yet getting some flake sales into the JV.
How should we expect that to roll through over the next year as this anniversaries?  This is Curt.
So if you look at total volumes again theyre lower due to customer buying patterns again not unusual for this industry.
But again additionally industry is absorbing some additional capacity primarily at our 30 000 ton plant with the joint venture with the CNTC.
So you can think of that 30 000 tons as the volume and revenue from that is being  we dont see that in our segment results.
Thats really going through our other income line for our 45% interest.
But as expected the volume loss that the industry is absorbing and weve included our percentage of that industry absorption is resulting other tow lines but its been offset by the acetate flake volumes that were selling to the Joint Venture.
So thats kind of the trade-off youre seeing in that.
But again fibers is delivering some pretty good earnings even with some of that shift from you know direct sales versus due to joint venture delivering that $500 million to $520 million plus some of the benefits well see from that joint venture in the other income line.
Great thank you guys.
Yes hi.
Good morning.
Good morning P.J.
Mark there was a big decline 500 basis point decline in specialty fluids in the intermediate margin.
I know you had that outage but how much of that was due to propane spike and how much of that was due to I think these specialty fluids destocking that you mentioned.
Yeah the drop was primarily driven by the propane compression on ethylene and propylene related products.
But specialty fluids was a contributor a meaningful contributor as well.
Thats really just the chunkiness of demand patterns in specialty fluids.
So the fields were just werent as strong  in particular solar fields can be quite large and cost a chunkiness nature across quarters.
So it was soft in the first quarter.
We actually expect it to be strong in the second quarter and balance itself out.
I would note that this brings up a broader topic that it means that this year because of some of these propane related things were going to have a bit of a stronger second half than normal from an earnings point of view and softer first half.
You can see it just by the cost loads there is and some of the ways demand patterns are picking up.
And its just important to keep in mind as youre thinking about your models.
And if I could Mark if I look at overall cost increases from raw materials year over year its roughly about $40 million.
Thats many times what Jeff will as in some of our calls.
And of that $40 million its predominantly propane and natural gas.
So Josh remind me the percentage of the segment  of that propane headwind.
Okay so for propane just the pure cost is that the majority were seeing this quarter is going to go as five but its also shared between [indiscernible].
So the majority of that  that raw material had when I mentioned [indiscernible].
Just one other point which is the cost associated with the Longview outage which was about $8 million in the quarter.
A good portion of that was in the specialty fluids in the intermediate segment as well.
Thank you.
And then secondly sticking to this propane thing you have this deal with enterprise on the PDH Unit and your long term contract.
When that starts up what kind of bottom line impact do you expect? Thank you.
Okay.
So yeah were looking forward to that unit coming on and our participation with it.
When we announced that opportunity we also discussed a long term supply agreement we are already feeling the benefits of that.
And I would say once we bring the PDH unit there will be at a slight improvement over where we are today.
Can you quantify that at all? Thank you.
P.J.
I dont have a number before you right now.
Thanks.
Hey good morning guys nice start to the year.
Thank you.
Mark you mentioned investing in a Crystex this year.
Can you maybe help us what exactly that does for you in terms of maybe profitability or a longer term positioning?  Weve been working on a fairly comprehensive Crystex strategy about how we sustain earnings growth in this business.
As those who followed Solutia know Crystex actually one of the key parts of Solutia great product line which is insoluble salt that vulcanizes rubber.
But it does phase competitive challenges with some competitors coming in great synergy between Eastman and Solutia where we were able to take some of our scientists to dramatically improve the process technology with them.
And where we [indiscernible] a process technology that will enable us to improve the cost structure -- well start building by the end of the year by 20% to 30%.
[Indiscernible] this technology is that it allows us to retrofit existing plans and get significant cost improvements.
It would be more exciting for me [indiscernible] it improves the performance characteristics of the product and allows us to differentiate ourselves in what we offer to the marketplace versus the current competitors.
So were actually starting the retrofit on one of the first lines in Europe and were also doing a lot of piloting to make sure we understand all the product performance characteristics and validate all the left home with the process technology.
And thats really what's causing the $10 million ramp up in cost.
And I would note that that ramp up really starts happening in the second quarter through the end of the year on that $10 million.
So its a great long term investment.
Were really excited about this.
When you start these things it takes some investment.
Okay great.
And then when you look at advanced materials you had a decent start to the year.
But still if you take a look at the ramp that you need to see to head 2015 how are you feeling in terms of the  maybe structurally getting there from what youve seen for the business thus far?  It was a great start to the year.
You know it was little masked by the performance comes over the patterned shift.
But we feel great about the momentum in that segment for this year.
The demand recovery and the automotive first sectors is driving good demand not just for the premium products but for the standard products as well.
And we certainly continue to see very robust demand for Tritan and our co-polyesters so that part is going great were rushing to do our debottleneck expansion on Tritan to enable that growth which will be key contributor to 2015 earnings growth so we bring that additional capacity online to grow in especially plastics group.
We also have some new product launches and they are doing well well tell you more about later in the year that are getting us into some new products and markets in especially plastics and the electronics market.
Thanks.
Overall I feel good about the momentum I think that as you look to 2015 in earnings growth for advance materials I think its well position to have another strong earnings growth in 15 over 14.
And what I could Mick on top of that is if you remember our guidance back at the Investor Day that was built around three elements strong growth that Mark talked about with the product lines levering the asset investments that weve made in the improved product mix all those things are on target.
I would remind you though that the two areas that may be are little softer than what we thought back in Investor Day is one is just what is the level of auto and interlayer growth in Europe.
And then secondly with the electronics business or display business is probably not as strong as we are visioning back there.
So great fundamentals overall but those are the two areas of weak thats compared to what we were assumed back in Investor Day.
And speaking on Investor Day just going back to one of the question PJ had there is a slide we provide at the Investor Day that gave some  shows you some of the benefits were expecting from the improvements weve made in olefins from our cracker  some of our cracker expansions the propylene contracts we have as well as what we expected the PDH unit benefit to be at 15 then the assumption at that time was a mid-year benefit and the 15  it was by the $10 million benefit going from 14 to 15 was our rough estimate of the benefit of that enterprise contract.
Great thank you.
Good morning just wondering on your Crystex investment.
You mentioned some weakness in China and you would specifically target the entire market for that is there any concern about where the demand is for that new capacity or is that are you confident that the higher technology offering that youre giving is going to offset that?  We continue to view the overall global tire market holding around the 5% long-term growth rate and we dont think its going on right now and China indicates that there are some sort of structural changes in the need for tires in the future.
I think that globally there is a question about changing consumer driving patters and all of that that feed into the long-term growth rate but were seeing and say that were concerned about demand.
Wed also note that when we build the Canton plant it is an extremely attractive plant and how we can leverage the existing fixed cost at our Canton sites since were just adding another unit next to an existing one which gives us great flexibility going forward in the future to both support growth at the markets growing or if necessary if demand is not as strong as we would all like weve got the flexibility to rationalize some of our smaller plant and improve our overall fixed cost structure across the globe.
So it's a good investment no matter what scenario of the world you look at.
Very good and then in just in fiber I noticed the pricing that go up this quarter that lower rate than in previous quarters did you see that pricing gain decelerating over the rest of the year or are we getting back to the type of increases we have last year?  Well I think on the pricing side I think while we tend to have is good conversations with their customers around what's the quality of our product and their ultimate demands as well as the change in input cost.
So I think its usually good transparency with both parties and pricing will be indicative of raw material inputs and just how the overall market is.
Thank you.
Good morning one short-term question one long-term question on fibers can you give some detail on the negative volumes and particularly given class [ph] expansion you did what's going on in the industry dynamics? And then longer term question is this you look at the bridge to 2015 youre going to have a tailwind from the acquisitions it sounds like in the mid-teens you have the buybacks the product will catch up to the raw material pressure you have the licensing thats moved into 2015 of lower core growth if you put all those together it sounds like you have about of $0.50 to $0.70 tailwind next year.
What are the negatives that would offset that?  Ill get to the second question in a second but could you repeat the first question it was a little for some reason it was gobble that I couldnt hear it.
So fiber volumes were down about 2% could you give some detail on what youre seeing in the industry and [indiscernible] contacts of your leasing capacity expansion?  Sure on the first question around fiber demand we certainly see a slowdown in fiber demand growth were not looking at the overall market in decline for 2014 relative to 13 but if it's at the lower end of the growth rate we wouldve expected it's not hard to imagine why thats happening with all the drivers out there from taxes to smoking concerns and to a minor extend e-cigarettes.
So thats consistent with how we think about and view the market but I would say it's growing slower than it did if you look at past average primer growth rates over the last five years.
In regards to 2015 as we look at that year and the challenges in general Id say we feel very good about the things that you noted but the biggest challenge thats out there especially if people are asking their dollar share question is the global economic growth that Curt noted propane prices are moving in ways that we expected from a propylene point of view as we discussed in last call we certainly face some compression on propylene ethylene related products versus our original assumptions.
So thats a bit of a headwind in 15 but it in the year-over-year headwind I think we  from 14 to 15 point of view that impact is already being felt in 14 and I dont expect a big year-over-year problem in 15 in fact I think weve done a better job of hedging in the next year to mitigate some of that cost pressure we felt on 13 to 14 basis.
So I think were actually well positioned on the propane topic.
This is more of a general economic question and then you always have that question around competitive behavior the biggest impact weve had if you look at our 2012 Investor Day expectations with the drop in adhesives and plasticizer earnings relative to where were and we dont see that recovering back to high levels.
I think it stabilized and I think our ability to improve from where it has but certainly not going to jump back where it was.
One other thing I might add with this to what I like about Eastman today may be when much you saw about Eastman ten years ago the men and women at Eastman are focused on year-over-year earnings growth.
So the specific actions we take we know sometimes well have benefits in one year while theyre continuing benefits into the other year.
So we know some of that $0.50 to $0.75 benefit that were expecting in 14 will have a benefit on a full year basis next year an example again is that Tritan expansion where we are to bottleneck in 25% of our capacity there.
So we are focused on everything we can control to deliver that year-over-year earnings growth 14 15 and beyond.
It's important to know the strength of our cash flows.
So it gives us a lot of options.
As youve already seen we demonstrated the willingness to continue doing acquisitions that are accretive and have good finishing with the company and willing to repurchase shares and weve got a great organic portfolios so we continue to feel very good about delivering consistent strong earnings growth as we go forward.
Thank you.<br> Thank you Mark.
On fibers to reach the upper end of your guidance range youll need to add about $135 million of earnings in Q2  Q4 thats versus $117 million in Q1 so what's going to drive that increase sequentially? Well David I appreciate your effort to try and give me to move to the upper end of the range in fibers we have a range out there because there is some uncertainty about demand and so as we look at Q1 we dont think thats representative of the future.
We certainly can see that the buying pattern shifting back to what wed actually call normal buying patterns.
Last couple of years demand was so tight people are buying a lot more in first quarter just to make sure they got product in this year we see a more typical buying patter and develop where our first quarter was little bit softer than youd like and second will be stronger.
And so we dont have any concerns we think demand will continue to develop us as we expected for the year but certainly it's at a more moderate growth rate than what we saw in the past couple of years.
And just the buyback pace.
Mark you mentioned will slow over as Q1 just how much will it slow you think in the rest of the year on the total basis? Well I couldnt answer that one.
Yeah I mean as you know you look at the share repurchases as one of the mechanisms to deploy cash.
I mean our priorities for cash remain capital expenditures to support our organic growth attractive mergers and acquisition and share repurchases as just again a good valuable use of cash.
Weve still have $900 million remaining on our authorization that our board was going up to provide us given the confidence in our financial positions and cash flows.
But it will moderate but having said that were in the market today and well be in the market throughout the year just not at that same pace of the first quarter and probably at a pace thats more similar to what youve seen from us in the past.
Thanks you.
Weve got time for one more question please.
Hi this question is for Mark just and I hope that you might clarify a comment that youve made earlier about the relationship between the first and second half where you referring to the growth rates being stronger in the second half or the absolute dollars of earnings being stronger in the second half?  I was referring to earrings.
So while we certainly would have preferred some revenue growth in the first quarter than what we saw we see strong improvement in revenue growth already in the beginning of the second quarter and expect that to deliver a good revenue sequential improvement in the second quarter and of course continuing out into the third and fourth.
So its really an earnings comment as the propane cost are primarily driven by the high propane prices in the winter of the first quarter but of course a lot of still have to flow through into the second quarter and that creates some earnings headwinds.
And we have some additional growth investments like the tires growth investment ramping up in the second quarter that wasnt in the first.
So there is a few things that are creating some cost dynamics relative to revenue in the second quarter but those are expected to abate by the end of the second quarter as well as the Texas outage I should know that would allow earnings to be better than what is a typical first half second half seasonal or patterned earnings raising.
And if I may also the eastern specific actions are weighted more towards latter part of the year than the first part.
I mean just to be absolutely clear what you are saying is unlike current first call estimates the third quarter will be larger than the fourth quarter  larger than the second quarter this was not the case in 2013 is that correct? Bill were not giving quarterly EPS or EBIT targets today thats not what were doing.
So you are getting a directional guidance but were not going quite that specific.
Okay.
Great thanks.
Okay.
Thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
Well replay and a replay and downloadable MP3 format will be available on our website beginning in approximately 11 AM.
Have a great day.
Thank you everyone.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Co.
Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on the Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Co.
Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Adam and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Mark Costa Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Executive Vice President and CFO; and Josh Morgan Manager of Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover 3 items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual events or results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's second quarter 2014 financial results news release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-K filed for 2013 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for second quarter 2014.
Second earnings per share and operating earnings referenced in this presentation excludes certain non-core or nonrecurring costs charges and gains.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the excluded items are available in our first quarter 2014 financial results news release which can be found at eastman.com in the Investors section.
Projection of future earnings in the presentation also exclude such items as described in the second quarter news release.
Lastly we have posted slides that accompany our remarks for this morning's call on our website in the Presentations and Events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I'll start on Slide 3 and I'll begin this morning with the key highlights from our second quarter.
We delivered solid EPS in the -- both the second quarter and the first half despite the challenges we faced and we are on track for another year of solid earnings growth in 2014.
We continue to expect this will be our fifth consecutive year of earnings growth and remain confident we will continue to grow earnings in 2015 and beyond.
Earnings growth is a reflection of our leadership position in key markets the diversity of the end markets we serve and our broad geographic footprint as well as the value of our vertical integration.
I've spoken to you previously about Eastman's specific actions we're taking to increase our earnings in 2014.
We continue to see strong growth in our high-value products driven by favorable macro trends and expect this growth will accelerate in the second half of the year.
And we continue to benefit from the integration of Solutia including the impact on our effective tax rate.
However we also have some actions that are taking longer than we had expected.
I have previously mentioned that the technology licensing we have been expecting in 2014 is more likely to be completed in 2015.
While we are seeing good growth with the switch to non-phthalate plasticizers this growth is currently being offset by competitive pricing pressure and we're experiencing some softness in demand in our heat transfer fluids due to delays and cancellations of industrial products -- projects.
As a result on balance we're moving a little slower than we'd expected on these actions meaning some of the benefit will spill over into 2015.
But despite this and the other challenges we have faced so far in 2014 we remain on track for 2014 EPS guidance we gave you in January.
Also during the quarter we completed the acquisition of BPA Aviation Turbine Oil business.
This acquisition expands our footprint in the growing aviation fluids market.
In addition we issued $500 million of 30-year notes at an attractive interest rate on 4.65%.
And lastly we generated $234 million of free cash flow in the quarter once again confirming the ability of our portfolio to deliver very strong cash flow.
On Slide 4 I'll cover our second quarter corporate results and I'll start with some of the challenges we faced in the quarter.
First we had an unplanned outage at our Kingsport facility which is our largest manufacturing site due to a widespread power disruption.
Although you never want something like this to happen I am proud to say there were no injuries or impact to the environment and that is due to the quick and professional response of the Eastman team.
Financial impact was an approximately $10 million negative hit in the quarter to operating earnings from increased costs.
In addition the lack of available material contributed to the decline in revenue of the Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates segment given the integrated nature of our facility.
Also impacting revenue and to a lesser extent operating earnings was a spillover effect to the unplanned outage we had at one of our olefin cracking units in Longview Texas towards the end of the first quarter.
This also limited the material available to sell which again was most significant in the SFI segment.
In addition we had the flow through effect of propane costs from the first quarter which also impacted the second quarter.
If you remember that propane was as high as $1.60 per gallon in the first -- in the early part of the first quarter and though it came down it's now closer to $1.05 per gallon.
We still had flow-through effects and these are most pronounced in SFI and Additives &amp; Functional Products segments.
With all that sales revenue is up slightly year-over-year for the quarter.
The solid growth in our high-value product lines was mostly offset by declines in some of our core product lines and sequentially sales revenue was up 7% driven by higher volumes.
Operating earnings were down slightly year-over-year as the benefit of continued improvements in product mix with growth in high-value products was offset by higher raw material and energy costs site outage cost and competitive pressure in some core products.
However operating earnings were up $58 million or 15% sequentially and our operating margin for the quarter was approximately 18%.
Earnings per share was up $0.12 year-over-year and as we have said previously we're using all lines of the income statement to increase our earnings with both the lower tax rate and a lower share count contributing to the EPS improvement.
With that I'll turn it over to Curt.
Okay.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll begin on Slide 5 with a review of Additives &amp; Functional Products results.
Sales revenue was higher by 5% primarily due to higher sales volume for coatings product lines which was attributed to strong demand across multiple end markets.
Tire demand improved sequentially and was flat year-over-year as growth in Europe and North America was offset by continuing destocking in China particularly towards commercial tires.
Operating earnings were down slightly as higher raw material and energy cost particularly for propane more than offset higher sales volume.
Looking at the second half and full year of 2014.
We expect volume will be stronger in the second half of the year compared with the first half as we won't have the impact of colder weather that impacted our North America business in January and February of 2014 and the destocking of commercial tires in China seems to be running its course.
We also expect the impact of propane to moderate in the second half of 2014.
These factors coupled with continued solid demand in the coatings market should more than offset normal seasonality for this business.
We are also continuing to invest enhancements to the technology for our market-leading Crystex product line with a full year cost of approximately $10 million higher mostly in the second and third quarters and we continue to see increasing competition for solvent primarily due to economic weakness in China.
As a result we expect both revenue and earnings in the second half of the year will be higher than the first and continue to expect operating earnings will be between $410 million and $430 million for the year albeit more towards the lower end of that range.
Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers is on Slide 6.
Sales revenue was higher by 6% as higher sales volume more than offset lower selling prices.
The higher sales volume in adhesive resins was primarily attributed to stronger end-market demand and a lack of customer destocking that negatively impacted results in the second quarter of 2013.
The higher sales volume for plasticizers was attributed to the timing of substitution of phthalate-based plasticizers with Eastman's non-phthalates-based plasticizers.
Lower selling prices were in both adhesive resins and plasticizers and primarily due to continued competitive pressure that has continued from 2013.
Operating earnings increased primarily due to higher sales volume and associated higher capacity utilization as well as lower operating costs in the quarter that included targeted cost reduction.
Looking forward to the second half of the year we expect the adhesive resins market to continue to stabilize at current levels with a more balanced market going forward as well as stronger demand in key end use markets including hygiene packaging and building and construction.
However a competitor outage that had a positive impact on our results in the first half of the year is not expected to continue into the second half.
An additional announced capacity of an adhesives competitor is still a headwind as well.
For plasticizers we expect competitive pressure to continue to challenge margins partially offset by continued strong volume growth.
As a result we now expect Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers earnings to be above $175 million for the year.
Moving next to Advanced Materials on Slide 7.
Revenue was relatively unchanged as volume growth in our premium product was offset by lower volume in core products.
Premium products volume growth was driven by interlayers with acoustic properties in Eastman Tritan copolyester each of which continue to benefit from strong adoption in their respective market.
The lower sales volume was for core products such as our Flexvue coated films.
Operating earnings was flat as lower raw material and energy cost and strong mix improvement were offset by the impact of costs associated with the unplanned shutdown at the Kingsport site and some other costs.
Looking at the second half of the year we expect year-over-year revenue growth for the segment to be between 4% and 5% due to strong premium product growth in several areas.
For Tritan we see accelerated growth due to continued market penetration and some new customer adaptations supported by additional capacity scheduled to come online later this year.
We expect strong growth for interlayers with acoustic properties as it is more widely adopted in the market.
Growth should also increase for cellulose esters for displays including the benefit of a successful product launch of Eastman digitalized material into mobile devices.
And we expect a change in window film order patterns with more volume -- more balanced across the year compared with 2013 when volume was more front-end loaded due to in large part of the incentive structure.
These are expected to be partially offset by core product declines including our Flexvue products and a slight decline in revenue for core copolyester due to continued competitive pressure in some of the lower margin product lines.
As a result we continue to expect operating earnings will be between $280 million and $300 million.
And given the strong results in the first half of the year Advanced Materials could be near the top end of that range.
Next up is Fibers on Slide 8.
Sales revenue increased as higher selling prices and sales of acetate flake to our China -- acetate tow joint venture more than offset at lower acetate tow sales volume.
The lower acetate tow sales volume was due to the impact of additional industry capacity including our new joint venture capacity in China.
Operating earnings increased as higher selling prices sales of acetate flake to the China joint venture and lower raw material and energy costs more than offset lower acetate tow sales volume and higher operating costs resulting from lower capacity utilization and the unplanned shutdown of the Kingsport site.
For the second half of 2014 we expect lower acetate tow sales volume due to customer destocking in Asia Pacific as they built inventory during 2013 in expectation of stronger demand levels that now appear to be flat versus 2014.
We expect the impact of this destocking on our operating earnings will be most significant in the third quarter.
As a result we now anticipate Fibers operating earnings to be approximately $480 million which would still be the 11th consecutive year of earnings growth.
I'll finish up the segment reviews with Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates on Slide 9.
Sales revenue decreased primarily due to lower sales volume attributed to 2 factors.
First is the impact of the unplanned outages both the first quarter weather-related outage at the Longview Texas site and the second quarter unplanned shutdown at the Kingsport site.
Second sales volume was also declined for intermediate product lines with the increased use of intermediate in the manufacture of higher-value downstream derivatives in other segments as we continue to value up our advantaged vertical integration.
From a regional perspective the largest volume decline was in the Asia Pacific region which is a more marginal market for us.
Operating earnings declined year-over-year due to lower sales volume higher raw material and energy cost and cost for the unplanned outage at the Kingsport site.
Looking at the second half of the year for SFI we expect revenue and margins for intermediate product lines are expected to improve due to selling demand and lower propane costs but this is expected to be largely offset by a maintenance shutdown with one of our largest crackers at our Longview site.
This shutdown occurs every 5 years.
In addition the aviation fluids market remains strong and we will benefit from our recent acquisition there and demand for heat transfer fluids is expected to be soft due to delays or cancellation of industrial products in particular for polymer manufacturing facilities in China and the renewable energy market.
Taking this together we expect the operating earnings for the full year to be in the range of $300 million and $320 million for the year.
Moving next to Slide 13.
On June 2 we completed our acquisition of BP's aviation turbine engine oil business.
The total purchase price for this acquisition was $283 million and was ultimately an asset deal.
With this acquisition we gained a growing and nicely profitable specialty business that aligns well with our existing Skydrol aviation fluids business allowing us to serve our customers with a more complete suite of product offering.
As a result we will be better able to meet the needs of the global aviation industry which we expect will grow above GDP levels.
This business is now part of the Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates segment and 2013 annual revenues were approximately $100 million.
Excluding acquisition-related costs we expect this acquisition will be modestly accretive to 2014 earnings per share with full year 2015 accretion expected to be in the high-single-digit level.
This acquisition is an example of Eastman's deploying capital to a business where we have a leadership position in order to strengthen that position and accelerate growth and we are confident that the returns from this acquisition as well as the results from the Commonwealth acquisition we expect to close later this year will be consistent with our value creation expectations.
On Slide 11 I'll cover some other financial highlights.
During the second quarter we generated $419 million in operating cash in line with our expectation.
Net earnings were solid and we had normal seasonal working capital increase for receivables.
For the second quarter we generated $234 million of free cash flow.
Capital expenditures totaled $132 million in the second quarter and we expect full year 2014 CapEx to total approximately $575 million which is slightly lower than previous guidance as some of our growth and infrastructure spending will shift into 2015.
With expectations for cash from operations approximating up $1.4 billion for the full year we are on track for free cash flow of $600 million which excludes again our capital expenditures and our dividend.
We continue to return cash to stockholders including share repurchases of $360 million through the first half of the year of which $100 million was completed in the second quarter.
We have $800 million left on our current $1 billion authorization and we continue to expect the pace of our repurchases to moderate in the second half of the year.
Lastly our tax rate for the quarter was 28% similar to the first quarter and significantly below second quarter 2013 reflecting continued benefits from the integration of Eastman and Solutia business operations and legal entity structures.
We continue to expect our tax rate for the full year to be approximately 28% and as a reminder our tax rate excludes any potential benefits of tax extenders that could be passed by our legislators.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Curt.
I'll review our outlook for 2014 which is on Slide 12.
Given the results in the first half of the year we are on track for a fifth consecutive year of solid earnings growth.
As I look at the second half of 2014 we expect sales revenue year-over-year to increase roughly in line with global GDP reflecting acceleration of growth in our premium products and Advanced Materials the stronger coatings market benefiting the ASP segment the continuing benefit for macro trends such as the move to non-phthalate plasticizers from phthalate-based plasticizers.
These should be partially offset by lower acetate tow demand and normal seasonality.
Sequentially we expect revenue will be similar to the first half levels.
Operating earnings in the second half should be up year-over-year and down sequentially.
The year-over-year improvement is expected to be driven by growth in Advanced Materials as growth accelerates for premium products including Tritan copolyester displays interlayers with acoustic properties and window films and we expect the sequential decline will be due to costs from a high level of planned outages in the second half of the year including the major maintenance turnaround at our largest cracker in Longview Texas which Curt mentioned in the SFI section.
We also expect to benefit from the capital deployment including both the acquisition that we've completed and share repurchases.
As a result we continue to be on track for 2014 earnings per share in the range of $6.70 to $7 which would be strong growth.
And as I think about the cadence of the second half I would expect year-over-year EPS growth in both quarters -- both for the growth to be more significant -- for the growth to be more significant in the fourth quarter.
Next is capital allocation Slide 14.
In the second quarter we were balanced across each of the buckets in how we allocated capital.
We continue to spend on the growth in our capital expenditures.
As we mentioned we took advantage of the very attractive public debt market with an attractive offering.
We completed a bolt-on acquisition during the quarter and are on track to close a second before the end of the year and we continue to return cash to stockholders in the form of both share repurchases and a healthy dividend.
Looking forward we remain committed to a balanced deployment of capital.
We continue to look at the M&amp;A market and are looking for opportunities that fit with Eastman and we continue to review -- view returning cash to stockholders through share repurchases and an increasing dividend as a good use of cash.
So we'd expect more of the same as we put our cash flow to work.
On Slide 15 lastly I'd like to remind everyone that we'll be hosting an Investor Day in New York on Thursday November 6.
The main purpose of our Investor Day this year will be for our senior management to share with you our strategy for building on the progress we've made to grow earnings for years to come.
We will be sending out more details via e-mail shortly.
I hope that you'll be able to join us.
And with that I'll turn it back to Greg.
Okay.
Thanks Mark and we have a number of people on the line this morning.
We'd like to get to as many questions as possible.
[Operator Instructions] And with that Adam we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mark you guys lowered your outlook for Fibers down from 520 down to 480 and you mentioned that destock is having an impact.
You also mentioned demand falling as part of a cause.
Are we near peak here? Is the impact of e-cigs capping future growth in that business? How should we think about that business into the future? Thanks Frank and good to hear you this morning.
Fibers is a great business.
It's delivered 11 years of consecutive earnings growth and it produces a tremendous amount of [ph] cash flow.
So we certainly are very pleased with this business.
But as you noted we think about the business as plateauing.
I don't like the word peak.
So what we're seeing is demand flattening out not declining.
But that does really create some problems for 2014 and potentially '15 specifically in China.
So they were building a lot of inventory in 2013 expecting sort of normal growth in '14 which didn't materialize.
And so they're going through some inventory corrections in production and that's sort of the demand correction we're seeing in the back half of this year.
What we don't know is in 2015 to the extent that there is continued destocking to further correct demand but I wouldn't call it peaking but it's certainly plateauing.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right that's very helpful.
And obviously in a similar vein you maintained -- you did maintain your 2014 outlook.
I'm curious if you have any updated thoughts on your targets for 2015 the $8 number and what might it take to get there? Frank I can't believe you asked that question.
I mean I never thought it would come.
So as we think about 2015 and we certainly are spending a lot of time thinking about it and doing everything we can to deliver great results what I'd say is we're committed to still driving towards $8 a share in '15 but getting to $8 is becoming more of a stretch.
Given what we know at this point we can see that -- we can definitely see it delivering double-digit earnings growth in the $7.50 to $8 range.
There's a number of factors that are really still very much going in Eastman's way driving our revenue and our earnings growth.
We expect the economy to continue to grow.
In particular we have some favorable positions in our top 2 end markets of transportation and building construction where we can see better than GDP sectorial growth there and we continue to be very excited about seeing how we're valuing up the mix in our company.
We have a number of high-value products across the company like Tritan acoustic interlayers window films coatings additives non-phthalate plasticizers resins.
We're now taking into tires.
They give us very strong high-value growth improving our mix.
I think we also have a different strategy going into '15 versus '14.
On our propane cost side we've gone with a much more aggressive hedging strategy.
We've shifted our mix towards 30% ethane on our crackers from 20%.
So I think we're in a much better cost position to avoid that sort of spike and hit that we went through this year.
And we certainly intend to have improved operational performance next year so we have more product available to sell.
And we've also got pretty aggressive productivity programs across the country holding costs flat.
That means that the growth that we do get in the top line should fall to the bottom line.
And then the part I love best about our company is our incredibly strong free cash flow that we're fully committed to deploying and we certainly already evidenced our commitment to be balanced in our deployment with the 2 bolt-on acquisitions that we did this year and the $360 million of stock buybacks we've already completed.
And still have $800 million left on our authorization.
So we have a number of things that help the growth map see how you drive towards the $8 in that range of $7.50 to $8 but we also have some headwinds that we have to recognize.
First the economies while it's growing certainly not growing at the rate that I think any of us would like.
I would continue describing it as lack-luster on a global basis and that creates a bit of a challenge.
In particular I'd say Europe is -- it's certainly encouraging to see some growth this year versus last year but we also have to keep in mind we're coming off of a really low base.
And then we have a few new things like this Fibers question around demand next year and the heat transfer fluid demand slowing down this year and we think that will probably continue to be at modest levels next year with improvements in '16 when we look at the plant build situation in China.
So those are some of the headwinds that we certainly hadn't factored in if you think about Investor Day.
But it's important to keep in mind we've got a great portfolio of specialty businesses great diversity in our product lines our end markets our geographies.
We've got great world-class technology platforms that allow us to continue to innovate to defend our current markets and margins as well as find new applications to grow and most importantly a very high EBITDA margin that produces a lot of cash flow for giving us a lot of options about how we grow.
So I'd still feel confident we're going to deliver double-digit earnings growth still driving to the $8 a share as best as we can.
And we'll take our next question from Vincent Andrews Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just another question on Fibers on the cost side of things.
It looks like wood pulp costs are coming down and some believe that they may go down a lot more from here.
So I'm just curious how that flows through in terms of your contract structure.
Do you have some where that's pass through or is there discretion where you could try to hold on to a fair amount if not all of it? And I guess the complexity might be just sort of the volume situation that you referenced in your comments earlier.
Thanks Vince for the question.
The Fibers business is one that is great about its stability which means we have a fairly predictable demand and price curve for the year because the contracts are done on an annual basis.
So we go through those negotiations.
We pretty much set our sort of our price in our contract and then pulp does what it does and then we get those results and that's certainly been a benefit as we've expanded our margin this year with pulp declining.
Research Division</strong> So if pulp continues to go lower next year you would expect to capture that? Well I think you have to -- remember it's always a balance in those contract negotiations going into 2015 of price and where pulp goes and so we don't discuss those kind of contract negotiations ahead of time but we'll do our best as we always do.
I'll remind you this industry has been disciplined in its history and we'd expect that to continue.
And we'll take our next question from P.J.
Juvekar Citi.
Research Division</strong> Mark this year [ph] you mentioned increased resin supply.
Can you talk about that? And have you seen China rosin prices come down? And then you also talked about new competitor capacity and can you just tell us how big that is? Sure P.J.
The adhesive business has got a lot of moving parts as we've discussed on past calls.
What we're excited and encouraged about is seeing the solid demand growth continue especially in things like hygiene and the hot melt adhesive packaging and that growth rate has sort of gone back to what we would call normal and strong this year relative to what was relatively weak last year.
So the demand side of this equation is to some degree back in gear.
On the supply side the rosin capacity which is an alternative to hydrocarbon resins is a bit tighter this year where it was extremely loose last year with very low prices.
And as we look at the -- people climbing up the mountains to pull rosin off the trees this year it looks like it's going to be more of an average to slightly tight year.
So we expect rosin prices to remain where they are which makes that -- them less attractive to use versus our tackifying resins.
So we're encouraged to see that tightening up a bit and giving us some market stability.
When it comes to direct competitors in resin capacity principally a company in Korea added a hydrogenated resin capacity that created some competitive pressure this year.
But so far that seems to be relatively stable.
And I think that overall that's led to nice conditions in the first half of the year which were also further improved by one of our competitors having a serious outage.
As we look at the second half of the year we continue to see attractive growth and what I would call stability but we do have some favorable things in the first half of the year that won't continue in the second.
Research Division</strong> And quickly for Curt with your efforts to bring down tax rate and use of NOLs from Solutia can you talk about how much NOLs are left and where could your long-term tax rate go? So if we look at the overall tax rate we continue to expect that to be 28%.
The tax team is still working through different options by which to continue to lower that effective tax rate.
I often characterize what the tax department was able to do with some of the Solutia businesses and legal structures was a triple or home run.
Now they're working on singles and doubles if you don't mind the baseball analogy.
And I'd also remind people that don't be afraid to call your legislators because if they get the tax extenders impacted that could have a further reduction of our rate of about 1%.
So we believe in tax extenders and what we put in place is permanent tax fixes tax adjustments.
Our rate could be driving more towards 27%.
On the NOLs we pretty much said about 2/3 of the NOLs $1.5 billion was going to be used kind of half of '12 '13 '14 and '15.
And you just take that number and do some math off those to kind of get you per [ph] kind of pro-rata basis the amount you're going to get from the NOL cash benefit but we'll continue to have NOL benefit going into 2015.
We'll take our next question from James Sheehan SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just with respect to the outage at Kingsport.
I was wondering if you could discuss us your monthly order trends and how they've progressed through the quarter and how you would have seen that flowing had the outage not occurred? And also if you could update us on your order books for July? So on the order books if you think about most of our segment you're able to work through the outage by using your inventory and working with your customers trying to prioritize shipments et cetera.
So I'd say the order books while had some delay in them generally speaking our order books were still pretty solid through the second quarter for most [ph] segment.
The one that we highlighted is Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates.
As you know how our integrated streams run to the extent some of the molecules aren't used by the derivatives there are certain lower commodity product lines like acetic acid that just aren't available for them to sell.
And so that's where you saw the declines in the second quarter in volumes.
But generally speaking I think our businesses did a pretty good job working with our customers and keeping revenue going through the outage.
As we look at the July order books everything is on track with the revenue growth outlook that Mark mentioned earlier across all the portfolio.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And on propane and the cracking spreads you had identified about $0.30 to $0.40 of headwind in the first half.
Just wondering how you would size that on -- how it reverses in the second half if you can provide any insight.
So if you think about the propane costs and the impact of the spike up in the first quarter and the flow through effect you've seen in the first half of the year we quantify that to be $0.30 or $0.40 in the early part of the year.
I'd say as we look at the map today it's on the high end of that range.
But now that propane is down at this more modest -- I shouldn't say modest level at the current levels it's at and as you can imagine Mark mentioned our hedging program we are much more -- before we used to hedge only 6 months out to kind of give our businesses a little more time to price into it because some of the volatility as well as we just looked at how the forward curves have behaved in particular with propane.
We were much more aggressive getting our hedge positions in place going into this winter season than we had in the past and we're looking to do that 2 years out as well because of some of that forward curve.
So as it relates to the second half of the year that $0.30 to $0.40 -- that $0.40 roughly headwind is behind us and should moderate the second half of the year and that's reflected in our outlook.
We'll take our next question from David Begleiter Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Mark just on the guidance for this year still a pretty wide range for the back half of 2014.
What would it take to make the low end of the range and what would it take to make the high end of the range? Good question.
We spend a lot of time looking at that.
The -- first of all I think that if I think about this year and the last call I was on I would have said we were at the top end of the range.
Things were clicking along and I'd say that we feel like we probably moved a little bit more back into the range.
I mean -- and what's changed for us is the -- on the positive side we see Advanced Materials and A&amp;P doing much better than expected but we also have some new headwinds in Fibers demand destocking as we've mentioned and some of those further slowdown and heat transfer fluids and of course the Tennessee outage.
The low end of the range would take some other things that we don't know about and creating some challenges for us like an economy slow down or something else that pops up.
But we're working hard to continue to deliver the best earnings growth we can for the year and we still have strong free cash flow that gives us additional option.
Research Division</strong> And Mark just on Longview can you size the impact of the outage? And also give us an update on the tariff dispute with West Lake.
We'll let Curt answer this one.
Okay.
Let me start with West Lake and then I'll need a reminder of the first part of the question.
But as you know with West Lake we continue to explore options with monetizing our excess ethylene.
And specifically in regards to the dispute with Westlake let me remind you that there's really 3 disputes.
The first is the removal of the bidirectional flow with the pipeline.
The second is the removal of the exchange rights or what's often referred to as the ability to do swaps.
And then the third dispute is around the change in the tariff rates.
A hearing was held on the first 2 items back in May and we are waiting on an examiner's ruling.
I can't tell you exactly when that's going to happen.
I hear it could happen any day but we're still waiting for that ruling.
The rate tariff is scheduled for review in August.
So we're still working through the Railroad Commission to get this resolved.
We continue to be very confident that this will be resolved in our -- to our satisfaction.
Dave the first part of your question was around the Longview outage.
Could you elaborate? Research Division</strong> Yes the impact the dollar impact for the outage in Q3.
Well on Q2 I think...
Are you talking about the planned shutdown Dave? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm sorry the plant shutdown I'm sorry.
So this is Curt again.
So if you look at kind of the impact of that is going to be predominantly in the fourth quarter.
If you look at our maintenance cost in the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis the difference is going to be roughly about $25 million of higher maintenance cost in the fourth quarter of this year and about $20 million of that is associated with the Longview turnaround of the cracker.
And we'll take our next question from Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions if I might.
Firstly in the emerging markets mostly it's not quite as robust as folks had hoped.
I'm just wondering have you seen any change in underlying trends in what you think has to happen and particularly in Asia to get things percolating? And then secondly I noticed exceptional expense control at the SG&amp;A line.
Can you talk about maybe some specifics of what you've done and how much of that has traction to continue or how much of that might have been more short-term oriented? In regards to Asia Pacific in particular and the emerging market growth we have to be careful about how we look at that revenue number.
The key driver of why the revenue was not what you would normally expect was the intermediate sales from the Specialty Fluids segment.
So we have these large engines here where we make a lot of intermediates and we sell what's left over that we don't value up in the Specialties.
We focus primarily on selling those in North America and Europe where the margins are most attractive and then what's left over we sell in Asia Pacific.
So when they have outages like we've had in the first half of the year at both Longview and Tennessee the big impact on the revenue is those intermediate sales in Asia Pacific which are the lowest margin sales for us.
So that's a big driver.
When you strip that out I'd say revenue growth in Asia Pacific in the first half of the year was on track and solid.
The broader question around emerging markets in places like Russia Latin America fortunately for us we don't have much revenue in those regions and aren't being hurt by the dramatic slowdown on those economies this year and we continue to be very confident about our goal to continue growing in Asia Pacific.
If I could Bob on the SG&amp;A one of the things I love about the Eastman culture is we've had productivity embedded in our culture across of our operations for years and that's why you still see us not having to announce big large cost reduction programs because our people are focused on that everyday.
If you look at the SG&amp;A line specifically what you're seeing there is that same productivity mentality being applied to the SG&amp;A line.
Where again we're looking at ways we can keep our cost flat year-over-year as we offset inflations with productivity efforts et cetera.
And then on top of that what we're working on is where we spend those dollars and we're focusing a lot of that spend on our growth and our other initiatives to help grow the bottom line.
So it's kind of been a shift where we spend it and how we spend it is really -- I think is also going to be in the DNA of Eastman as you look at us over the next several years.
The one thing that we do see SG&amp;A tends to increase a little bit in the second half of the year because of some seasonality spending that we have.
But generally speaking what you're seeing in our SG&amp;A line is the focus of Eastman and supports the growth efforts we have.
We will take our next question from John Roberts UBS.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit about how broad your strategy is in your functional fluids area? I mean there are a lot of other areas like metalworking fluids or broader presence in de-icing and so forth how broad should we think about the strategy here? Well clearly I'd say we have sort of 3 main product groups that we currently have to go in the different applications.
So we have heat transfer fluids that are principally used for that purpose.
We've got significant issues about transporting heat from one location to another.
So the polymer and chemical manufacturing plants use a lot of heat transfer fluids concentrating solar power rays use a lot of heat transfer fluids as well as some other energy-related facilities.
So that's a market area that we've been a very strong leader in for years continue to be a strong leader.
But as we noted we've hit some demand slowdown because there's not as many energy investments being made at the moment although we do see that coming back in the '16 '17 timeframe.
And then on the polymer plant side in China we see a slow down there of PET plants in particular because they were significantly overbuilt and demand is catching up but that fluid gets applied to specifically those areas.
And of course we've got 2 different aviation-related fluids as well.
We've been a long-term leader in Skydrol which is hydraulic fluid for commercial aircraft and then the acquisition of the BP turbine oil business allows us to also complement that with our customers for the turbine oil.
But right now those are the areas that -- and applications we're in.
Those products dont tend to go into a lot of other applications.
Although we like this area in this business and so we continue to look for other opportunities to add fluids other potential fluids of this portfolio is one of the areas we're looking at when we talk about M&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and your comment about Fibers and you talked about some stocking that went on in anticipation of Asian growth and now it's flat are you saying end consumption of fiber in Asia is flat for 2014 and with the outlook and be flat again in 2015? So what we're seeing is flat demand.
I would say specifically in China.
There are other places where we continue to see modest growth in Asia Pacific.
But in China which is the big driver of demand in Asia Pacific we see demand being basically flat this year relative to last year all the way down to cigarette consumption.
It's not just a tow issue.
That's what this destocking is about is continuing to correct cigarette inventory and therefore tow inventory for serving the market in China.
Research Division</strong> And what do you see the actual end consumption so you're talking about at the cigarette inventory consumption and correction in China? You're not talking about down smoking? Well I think that what we're seeing is there's less or flattening of the level of smoking in China.
Used to modestly grow for many of the years.
But with the austerity measures and some other things going on in China it's flattened out the amount of cigarette consumption.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Walker Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> So propane will be a tailwind in the second half this year but what are you assuming in your 2015 outlook? Should it be a tailwind to '15 versus '14 or another headwind or flat? So if you look at propane what I'd suggest you do is that we look at the forward curve.
And if you look at the forward curve and you believe what it's telling you is that on average the total cost of propane will be lower in 2015 relative to 2014.
And because of that forward curve as I mentioned we're probably looking at that forward curve and saying that's maybe some -- it would be prudent for us to put in some hedges to lock in some of that lower propane cost for next year.
Research Division</strong> And as you look at your M&amp;A pipeline I guess how does that look and are you happy with your mix of end markets or might you add another value chain? We continue to look at the M&amp;A market and we will continue to be disciplined about looking at the M&amp;A market looking for attractive opportunities.
But I'd say we look for both.
We look for bolt-on acquisitions that reinforce the existing businesses we have and we are open to attractive additions of new legs to our company as well if they make a lot of sense.
And we'll take our next question from Kevin McCarthy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Mark you took your guidance up a little bit in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
On the plasticizer piece of it it seems like we've been talking about price erosion for quite a while.
Could you comment on what the sequential trend is there and whether or not the phthalate-based higher cost producers are making any money? Just trying to get a sense of what the residual price risk is there.
So on the plasticizer side on the growth side we feel great.
We see continued strong growth as people switch from phthalate to non-phthalate plasticizers.
But as you noted we've continued to see increased price pressure last year and some of that has continued in the first half of this year.
Principally what's going on is that you have some players who make non-phthalate plasticizers in Asia that sold all of it traditionally into China.
And with the slowdown of the Chinese economy they've been pushed out of China and looking for new homes in Europe and North America and putting price pressure on the market as they try and buy market share.
Those prices have come down considerably from the beginning of 2013.
And we see that pressure lessening as we go into the second half of the year.
So I think we're getting to a price point where the economics aren't making sense for further aggression by the Asians going after the business here but it's a little too hard to call that precisely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching gears to Longview.
As you move through the planned shutdown in the back half of the year would your feedstock mix remain the same at about 70 propane 30 ethane through that process? Or is there any opportunity to continue to tweak the ethane ratio a bit higher? At this point I think we're at the 30 70 propane.
This shutdown is a true maintenance shutdown.
It's not reconfiguring the plant and we don't see it changing that big [ph].
And we'll take our next question from Jeff Zekauskas with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> How long is the cracker outage on the fourth quarter? When does it start and when do you expect it to be completed? It starts towards the end of the third quarter and I believe Jeff that it is a 3-week outage -- oh 3 to 4 I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> 3 to 4 and this is your billion pound cracker? This is the largest of the 4 crackers that is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly in terms of your propane outlook if I understand what you -- better yet what was the EBITDA of the acquired BP business? Well we haven't given a specific EBITDA Jeff for that business.
I think what we've talked about is in 2015 it will be on an earnings per share basis high-single-digits accretion.
It's about $100 million of revenue.
And I think people have done some rough math off that.
I've heard some numbers thrown around around $30 million but we haven't disclosed specifically what the EBITDA is of that group.
And we'll take our next question from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of Advanced Materials you're looking for a pick up in sales growth in the second half of the year.
What do you think needs to happen for you to hit those numbers? And is some of it within your control to some degree? Mike I do think some of it's in our control.
As we look at some of the high value premium products we have in that segment we've been working hard in a lot of new applications in Tritan where we've closed those opportunities.
As you close them you can start seeing how that volume's going to roll in and so we see an acceleration in Tritan volume growth in the second half relative to the first half.
It's the other places like acoustic interlayers we've had great growth in the first half and expect that to just continue going into the second half.
There's a lot of -- OEMs are switching to acoustic high-performance products versus the standard interlayers to quiet the cabin and pursue light-weighting of the car and so that's a great macro trend a great margin improvement -- mix improvement for our business.
The window films side of the business also I think is one where we had shifted incentives and order patterns intentionally to even-out orders to actual consumption with our market.
And so we see good indications of those orders flowing in consistent with that intentional strategy.
There are of course always uncertainty as part of the challenge we had in window films this year.
There's a little slow down in demand in places like Indonesia and Thailand due to macroeconomic factors that are beyond our control.
But I think we can see a number of things going our way and there's always the things you don't expect that can either be favorable or unfavorable that play out.
But as long as the economy remains solid I feel like we should be on a good track there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you think 2015 for Advanced Materials it's got a long way to go.
Do you think it's just more of a delay to get to that number? Is the profitability potential of that business still where you think it could be longer term? First of all we don't see any sort of derailment on strategy in the Advanced Materials segment.
It's doing great this year and likely to perform at the high-end of the range and I think it's going to deliver very attractive earnings growth next year.
It's obviously not going to get to $380 million.
If you want to go back to 2012 Investor Day I think we commented on this in the past.
There are certain things that have changed that have slowed down the rate of growth in that business in particular the European demand and things like automotive and architectural buildings for the interlayer business.
It just hasn't come back from what we would have assumed back in 2012 but the premium products are growing strong including interlayers.
The window film business is growing strong.
The main issue this segment has had in getting to that original guidance is just overall macroeconomic growth being off of what we would have assumed.
So I see us continuing to deliver consistent earnings growth over several years in this business.
And we'll take our next question from Nils Wallin CLSA.
Research Division</strong> A question on outlook for hydrocarbon resins.
I know Exxon is building a fairly sizable plant over the next couple of years and wondering what you think about the long-term prospect for that that part of the business? The hydrocarbon resin business obviously has gone through some serious adjustments if you look at its performance in '12 to '13 and now starting to recover in '14.
It's still a great business.
It's got attractive EBIT margins.
It's got ROIC that is 2 to 3 percentage points above its EBIT margins.
So it's creating a lot of value on a cost of capital basis for our shareholders.
Certainty there are questions around demand and supply going forward like the Exxon announcement you just mentioned but we see it continue to be a stable good business at this point.
Demand trends are very favorable.
There's plenty of hygiene and hot melt adhesive packaging and other things that drive demand for this business.
We will continue to look at the supply demand balance to make sure that it's going to be value creating going forward and make decisions as appropriate.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just -- as there seems to be an interplay between pricing for rosin versus hydrocarbon resins and obviously you have capacity in both would you be able to give us a sense of how that might change your margin or mix effect as those 2 play off one another? I think when we think about rosins which is lower quality alternative to hydrocarbon resins especially our hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins where we have a more differentiated position they play a factor in creating a price pull if you will on the market downward if there's a large excess supply of rosins and those prices are quite low.
Last year was an exceptionally bad year for rosin prices in that they were quite low.
What we see now is back to more of a stable situation but it's a crop and it will have a certain amount of volatility to it going forward in the future.
So I don't think anything's changed in that dynamic as we look at this business.
And I think that as people go to more high-performance products we continue to benefit from that trend because in particular hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins are the high-quality alternative.
So if you want a high-quality diaper you go hydrogenated resins because rosins have an odor.
If you're going to a high-performance packaging facility you're going to go with hydrogenated resins.
So the macro trends is emerging middle-income classes upscaling what they want drive favorable demand to our product technology.
Research Division</strong> So would you say there's a meaningful share shift or share gain by the hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins away from rosin and how large will that be? Yes I think it is when rosin prices are sort of stable.
When rosin prices become really cheap like they did last year and the economy is weak the customers will make trade-offs and accept a lower quality adhesive formulation in favor of those economics and make those kind of switching choices in their formulation.
So that's going to happen some times.
But in general if you look at a stable relative pricing situation over a long term we should see some continued share shift.
I wouldn't say it's dramatic but share shift towards our technology.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Riddle at this time I'll turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Adam.
And thanks again everyone for joining us this morning.
A web replay and a replay and downloadable MP3 format will be available on our website beginning at approximately 11 a.m.
this morning.
Have a great day.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Greg Riddle.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kim and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Mark Costa Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Executive Vice President and CFO; and Josh Morgan Manager of Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover 3 items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual events or results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's third quarter 2014 financial results news release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-K filed for 2013 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for third quarter 2014.
Second earnings per share and operating earnings referenced in this presentation exclude certain noncore or nonrecurring costs and charges.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the excluded items are available in our third quarter 2014 financial results news release can be found on eastman.com in the Investors section.
Projections of future earnings in the presentation also exclude such items as described in the third quarter news release.
Lastly we've posted slides that accompany our remarks for this morning's call on our website in the Presentations and Events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks Greg.
Good morning.
It's shaping up to be a beautiful day here in the Smoky Mountains beautiful fall day and happy Halloween.
I'm happy to say for our shareholders we have a treat not a trick as great results this quarter and a good outlook for the fourth quarter next year.
I'll start with my comments on Page 3.
This has been an exciting quarter for Eastman as we have made solid progress towards our global -- our goal of becoming a leading special chemical company.
We delivered strong EPS in the third quarter despite continued global economic uncertainty and I'm proud to say we're on track for a fifth consecutive year of compelling earnings growth in 2014.
Earnings growth is a reflection of how our world-class technology platforms have enabled great success in establishing leadership positions in key end markets diversifying into attractive end markets and geographies and enabling an advantaged cost position through vertical integration and advantaged raw material position.
In September we entered into an agreement to acquire Taminco a highly successful global specialty chemical producer with a clear focus on niche markets built on their world dealership position in alkylamines and derivatives.
Taminco has the #1 or 2 global market share position for the vast majority of the chemicals producers making it a very exciting addition to our portfolio.
Today I'm pleased to report that the closing process is on schedule and we expect the transaction to close by the end of the year.
We couldn't be more excited about the addition of this great company to our portfolio.
Also during the quarter I was most excited to see the results of our innovation leveraging our world-class technology platforms.
Our strong growth of innovative high-value specialty products was a big driver of our earnings growth in the quarter and will be in our future especially in Advanced Materials segment.
And lastly we generated $355 million of free cash flow in the quarter which reaffirms the quality and the strength of the Eastman portfolio.
And I'm confident that this strength will continue to be a great value driver for investors in the future.
As we move on to Slide 4 I'll cover our third quarter corporate results.
Our portfolio of businesses posted solid year-over-year revenue growth of 3% with 4 of our 5 segments delivering very strong growth.
The higher revenue is primarily driven by higher volume and improved mix in Advanced Materials as well as higher volume in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
Pricing was also higher particularly in the Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates segment.
Operating earnings increased by 5% year-over-year driven by revenue growth in Advanced Materials Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers and Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates and the continued reduction in raw material and energy costs.
Earnings per share improved by 12% driven by higher operating earnings and a lower share count.
The lower share count reflects our continued commitment to return share -- return cash to our shareholders and fully deploy our balance sheet.
All in all our strategy is to continue to get great results and I'm confident that we've put ourselves in an excellent position to continue delivering these results for our shareholders through this year and the years to come.
With that I'll turn it over to Curt.
Okay.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll begin on Slide 5 with a review of the Additives &amp; Functional Products results.
Sales revenue was higher by 3% primarily due to higher selling prices and higher sales volumes for coatings product lines.
That was attributed to stronger demand in several key end markets particularly building and construction and durable goods.
Revenue growth in coatings was somewhat offset by lower sales volume for Crystex insoluble sulfur primarily due to lower demand in both Asia and Latin America.
Operating earnings were lower by $9 million primarily due to higher raw material energy costs particularly for propane; and costs related to the development of our next-generation Crystex rubber additive technology.
The higher raw material and energy costs reflect the flow-through effect of higher cost inventory with inventory turns for specialty products typically taking a bit longer than other parts of our portfolio.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect both revenue and earnings to have a strong growth year-over-year and to be about flat sequentially due to solid demands for coatings product lines; strong volume improvement for tire additives product lines particularly in Asia Pacific; lower raw material and energy costs; and lower fixed costs for Crystex due to our intent to close a manufacturing facility and as we ramp down development costs from higher levels.
As a result we expect operating earnings will be approximately $400 million for the year.
Given the headwinds this business has faced this year and the investment we are making in Crystex for the future we view these as solid results.
In addition AFP is well-positioned for solid earnings growth in 2015 and beyond supported by great technology platforms leadership positions in attractive end markets and advantaged cost positions.
Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers is on Slide 6 and they reported another solid quarter.
Sales revenue increased by 8% as higher sales volume more than offset lower selling prices.
The higher sales volumes in adhesives resins was primarily attributed to stronger end-market demand particularly for packaging and hygiene.
The higher sales volume for plasticizers was attributed to the continued substitution of phthalate-based plasticizers with non-phthalate-based plasticizers with Eastman 168 non-phthalate plasticizer volume growing about 13% in the quarter.
Lower selling prices for plasticizers was attributed to the continuation of global competitive pressures resulting from weak demand in Asia Pacific.
Operating earnings increased by $11 million primarily due to higher sales volume and higher capacity utilization in adhesives resins that resulted in lower unit costs.
Operating costs were also lower and this includes targeted cost reductions that are helping us this year and will continue to help us into 2015.
Looking forward to the fourth quarter.
In addition to the seasonality we typically see in the segment we anticipate some constraints for key raw materials and adhesives resins to result in lower volume year-over-year.
This raw material supply issue is the result of a shift to lighter feedstocks across the industry resulting in fewer byproducts.
It isn't unique to Eastman and our feedstock flexibility provides an advantage in a tight raw material environment.
For the full year we expect Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers earnings to be approximately $190 million.
This level of earnings would be approximately 10% higher versus 2013 and reflects a stable foundation for future growth.
Moving next to Advanced Materials on Slide 7.
Revenue growth accelerated in the quarter with year-over-year revenue sales up 4%.
The 5% volume increase was primarily due to continued strong growth of premium products across the segment.
Premium product growth was driven by Eastman Tritan copolyester which was up 15%; as well as Eastman Visualize Material interlayers with acoustic properties; and V-Kool window film each of which continues to benefit from strong adoption in their respective markets.
Operating earnings increased by $11 million driven by higher volume and improved product mix.
The Advanced Materials segment had a strong quarter and continues to deliver earnings growth in higher margin supported by 3 drivers we have previously discussed: higher volume improved product mix and fixed cost leverage as we fill out previous capacity expansions.
Looking at the fourth quarter we expect normal seasonality to impact demand across all major product lines and associated lower capacity utilization.
However we expect operating earnings to be meaningfully higher year-over-year resulting from a continuation of mix improvements across the segment favorable raw material costs particularly in copolyesters and lower-fixed costs.
As a result for the full year we are tightening our range toward the upper end of what was previously provided and now expect operating earnings to be between $290 million and $300 million reflecting an expected double-digit earnings growth for this segment versus 2013.
Next is Fibers on Slide 8.
Sales revenue declined as lower acetate tow sales volume more than offset higher selling prices and higher sales of acetate flake to Eastman's China joint venture.
The lower acetate tow sales volume was due to the impact from additional industry capacitation for acetate tow -- primarily Eastman's joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation; flattened demand in China that has resulted in a reduction in imports; and customer buying patterns which we have experienced before in this segment.
Operating earnings were basically unchanged as higher selling prices and lower raw material and energy costs were offset by the lower acetate tow sales volume and resulted in lower capacity utilization which resulted in higher unit costs.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect a sequential pick-up in earnings due to customer buying patterns for acetate tow positively impacting our results.
For the full year we continue to expect operating earnings to be approximately $480 million which would be a solid improvement over 2013's earnings.
I'll finish up the segment reviews with Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates on Slide 9.
Sales revenue increased primarily due to higher selling prices for intermediate product lines.
The higher prices were largely the result of supply tightness in multiple markets most of which we do not expect to continue through the fourth quarter.
Revenue in the quarter was also positively impacted by the aviation turbine oil business we acquired from BP.
You will recall we have closed this transaction during the second quarter and have gained a growing specialty business that aligns well with our existing Skydrol aviation fluids business.
The higher intermediate selling prices and addition of the aviation turbine oil business revenue was partially offset by weaker sales volume and heat transfer fluids as well as lower intermediate sales volume resulting from greater demand internally for downstream derivatives.
The lower sales revenue for heat transfer fluids is due to delays or cancellation of industrial products -- projects and we continue to expect this to continue in 2015.
Year-over-year operating earnings increased due to higher intermediate selling prices and the benefit from the acquired aviation turbine oil business partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs as well as lower sales revenue for heat transfer fluids.
Looking to the fourth quarter.
We expect continued strong performance in the intermediates product lines driven by solid demand and lower propane costs as well as the continued benefit from aviation fluids product lines.
However we also expect normal seasonality demand and for demand weakness in heat transfer fluids to continue.
In addition this segment is impacted the most by the costs from a maintenance shutdown at our -- at the largest of our crackers at our Longview site.
This shutdown occurs every -- once every 5 years and we expect the impact to be approximately $20 million for the company.
The shutdown has been recently completed and was done in a safe and timely manner.
This was not a trivial shutdown given the various complexities involved including the weather.
So I want to thank the Eastman team involved for their diligent efforts and demonstrating once again the operating capabilities of this company.
Anyway taking this together and recognizing the volatility inherent in the business we continue to expect operating earnings for the full year to be in the range of $300 million to $320 million.
On Slide 10 I'll cover some other financial highlights.
On one of my favorite topics during the quarter we generated a very strong $560 million in operating cash.
This again reflects the solid net earnings that we -- was the main driver as well as our working capital discipline.
And as with previous years during the quarter our working capital turned from a use to a source of cash.
Our cash flow in the quarter was also -- reflects timing of lower cash tax payments and the timing of pension payments which will occur in the fourth quarter.
Our free cash flow in the quarter was $355 million including $53 million in dividends.
Capital expenditures totaled $152 million in the third quarter and we continue to expect our full year 2014 capital expenditures to be approximately $575 million.
With the expectations for cash from operations approaching a record of $1.4 billion for the full year we are on track for full year free cash flow of approximately $600 million.
Besides dividends we have returned cash to stockholders with share repurchases of $50 million in the third quarter bringing our total share repurchases to $410 million through the first 3 quarters of the year.
You should expect that for the next couple of years our focus will be on deleveraging following the close of the Taminco acquisition.
While we are deleveraging we do expect to continue to offset dilution with share repurchases.
Lastly our tax rate for the quarter was approximately 27% below the second quarter due to a reversal of a deferred tax reserve but it is essentially flat compared to the third quarter of 2013 when we see the benefit for our adjustments to the tax provision to reflect the finalization of our 2012 federal tax return.
We continue to expect our tax rate for the full year to be approximately 28%.
It could be lower if a package of tax extenders including the various business and other R&amp;D tax credits is signed into law later this year.
So with that I'll turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Curt.
On Slide 11 I'll review our outlook for 2014.
I'm excited about the strong earnings and growth that we've seen through the first 9 months.
As I look forward into the fourth quarter of 2014 we expect it to continue to grow.
We expect sales revenue year-over-year to increase roughly in line with global GDP and this reflects continued growth of our specialty products particularly in Advanced Materials; increased volume in Additives &amp; Functional Products driven by higher coatings volume and strong volume improvement for tire additives particularly in Asia Pacific; and solid revenue growth in Fibers due to customer buying patterns.
So far this quarter we're seeing strong orders through October across the company.
Of course there's always some risk of more-than-normal destocking with the current economic uncertainty but we don't see any evidence of it yet.
We also expect some favorable raw material and energy tailwinds to improve earnings.
As a result we expect operating earnings in the fourth quarter to be up strongly year-over-year.
The increase is expected to be pretty much across the company.
Taking all of this into account I'm very excited about being able to revise our guidance for 2014 to be approaching $7 a share which will be our 5th consecutive year of earnings growth.
And we believe this momentum can continue in the years going forward.
That brings me to our last slide which is our Investor Day which is scheduled for next Thursday November 6 in New York.
I'm very excited about how we're going to bring our growth strategy to life which will deliver outperforming earnings growth and a very strong free cash flow for our shareholders.
We will discuss how we've transformed our portfolio into a leading specialty chemical company.
Within this portfolio we're particularly proud of the progress we are making with delivering innovative products to the market and we will discuss the strength of our core businesses and how they are well positioned to deliver solid revenue growth and sustainable margins.
I'm confident that our strategy will create great value for our shareholders now and into the future.
There are more details on our website in the Investors section.
I really look forward to seeing as many of you as can make it next week.
And with that I'll turn it over to Greg.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
[Operator Instructions] With that Kim we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to our first question from David Begleiter of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Mark just on acetate tow.
As you head into year-end negotiations what are you hearing from your customers about underlying demand specifically in China for tow and cigarettes for '15 and beyond? David so the Fibers business is one we're certainly paying a lot of attention to and trying to make sure we have a good understanding of the market.
What I would say is that we see demand as basically relatively flat in China this year relative to last year.
And as we look at that I think that it's principally driven by austerity measures from what everyone is telling us as opposed to a broader set of trends.
And so as we think about austerity measures they tend to have a onetime effect.
And so as we look at population growth and other factors you can see a scenario where demand in China could improve going forward probably at a moderate level to the past but continue to deliver some level of growth.
So that's our view on China.
So when you add that together with the rest of the world where you still have growth in Asia Pacific and some other parts of Eastern Europe and Latin America you can see a scenario where global demand growth is slightly improving going forward.
Now as we think about specifics to 2015 and what's going on in this year there are 2 things to keep in mind.
One is part of the reason demand is down this year is our joint venture with CNTC.
So as they bring their joint venture online they're obviously going to shift volume to running the joint venture full like they do the other joint ventures and then that's going to have an impact on import volumes and we've taken our share of impact on those imports -- reductions this year which of course is more than what you would have expected with flat demand.
So there's a bit of that going on this year that factors into it.
There is some debate and speculation around to what extent there's inventory that needs to be destocked in China if they are producing -- expecting growth which didn't materialize.
So we also view that there's always some -- a moderate amount of inventory correction that you could see next year or as part of what is going on this year.
But overall I think the important to tell -- the investors need to understand is we see this business being stable we see the demand being stable and -- as well as our earnings being stable going forward from this business.
And if we don't see that demand materialize we do have our actions we can take in managing our cost structure to respond to keep earnings stable again.
So that's where we see it.
We'll spend a lot more time talking about this at our Investor Day next week.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And Mark just on Crystex.
Can you talk about underlying demand? And when do you expect that demand to actually pick up doing forward? First of all we've seen already a pick-up.
So October we saw a strong rebound in orders in Crystex especially in China which is where we saw the most destocking.
It's important to remember that we're highly levered at commercial and truck tires as opposed to passenger tires as you compare us to the reports of our downstream customers.
It's 10x as much Crystex in a truck tire as a passenger tire.
And so October volume is actually on a global basis the strongest month of orders we've seen in 24 months.
We're already seen a good rebound.
Of course when we need to see this continue into November and December but at least we're off to a good start.
And we'll move on to our next question from Vincent Andrews of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Could you just speak a little bit to the customer buying patterns in Fibers? Is that just sort of a seasonal thing? Is it a trade load? Or -- and what gives you the confidence that it's going to swing back in 4Q which I typically think there was a time where these guys liked to manage inventory levels going into the end of the year? Vincent I think the old word that prior CEOs of Eastman have used is chunky and I think that customer buying patterns don't have some sort of predictable seasonal pattern in the fibers industry.
There is a lot of different factors that go into how they manage their purchases.
And we can already see improved orders from China in the fourth quarter.
So I'm pretty sure we can see what's going on and we expect the volume to improve.
So it was just a shifting of order patterns as they were adjusting some inventory in third quarter versus fourth.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And could I ask on the cash flow statement you had very strong cash generation in one of the items.
There's like $101 million that came on the other line.
What was that? Vince that's an example of the cash tax payments in third quarter of this year is lower than they were last year.
So that's the primary driver.
The next question comes from John Roberts of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I assume you view the Texas Railroad Commission ruling as favorable.
Do you expect that to be appealed? And will that allow you to restart a process to explore any transactions for your olefins capacity? This is Curt.
Well just to remind everyone there's 3 disputes with Westlake over that pipeline.
Two disputes was the hearing that was held earlier in this year around bidirectional flow and swaps and there's a hearing that's been held on tariff that we're still waiting for a ruling.
But on those first 2 items the ruling was issued by the examiner as you indicated on October 20.
The ruling was in favor of Eastman as they found Westlake's removal of bidirectional flow and exchanges as an unlawfully discriminatory action against Eastman.
We're not surprised by that ruling given our position and our outstanding legal team.
So parties do have the ability to appeal this decision within 15 days.
We're just going to wait that 15-day period out and see what happens.
Until then just to your comment we have continued to explore options with our excess -- ethylene position.
The timing unfortunately has been impacted by this activity with Westlake but we'll continue to explore those options now that this ruling is out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up how much of your revenue would you expect to see some price pressure from customers or competitors if ethylene propylene and other petrochemicals start declining as a result of lower NAFTA prices? I'll take that question.
Just on the Westlake part I want to add one additional comment which is we're committed to try and reduce the earnings volatility of our company which is why we're looking at selling those crackers.
But I need to remind investors that this is not a material event whether we keep those crackers or we sell them.
The bulk ethylene is about 2% of our earnings stream this year and it's just not what people should be focusing on.
And it's a great segue into your second question which is what's the impact of the $85 oil scenario on Eastman? And we of course are spending a lot of time thinking about that and trying to assess what that impact might be.
And at a high level I don't think there's a substantial impact to Eastman.
And I'll walk you through our logic and give you a rough idea of what the impact could be.
So most of the press I read says that the brand oil going down to $85 is primarily a supply-driven event.
So first I'm going to talk about this holding demand constant.
Because if it's supply-driven it's not a -- we're not having a macroeconomic recession debate here.
And there are really sort of 3 drivers to keep in mind when you assess Eastman as we think about this impact.
The first is of course our raw material costs will improve.
As propane prices drop we'll benefit from that.
That would be somewhat mitigated by the hedging strategy we have in place.
Also you have to remember that about 1/3 of our purchased -- raw materials purchase is propylene not propane.
And we'll see benefits of lower purchase propylene costs coming into us.
So we'll see a tailwind there.
The other side of the equation of course is what does propylene and ethylene prices do to us.
Well first of all we don't sell a lot of -- we don't sell any propylene and we only sell a modest amount of ethylene as I mentioned when it comes to total earnings for Eastman.
So we sell derivatives.
A lot of those are specialty products.
And as raw materials fall we generally tend to have stickiness in our prices that don't fall as fast as our raw materials.
And therefore we'll capture some value on the way down as you think about 2015.
The third part that's quite important is that we're not just -- olefins is only 15% of our overall earnings this year if you look at it from a pure cracking spread point of view.
And so you've got to remember that the other vast majority of Eastman benefits generally from a lower raw material environment.
And so the third component is our raw materials paraxylene and benzene.
And things like them [ph] PVOH are all going to improve.
And again those are specialty products that have stickiness with raw materials moving and we should benefit.
And then we can shift to the demand equation.
If it's a supply-driven event with $85 oil then this is going to a great economic stimulus for the world.
It is going to help improve cost structures for consumers for governments that should help everyone from China to Europe to the U.S.
So I can make an argument that we'll have a demand offset there too.
But ignoring demand for a moment and just holding demand constant I would say that the impact to us is roughly around $0.25 in EPS as a potential headwind.
And then if you believe that the world's going to be stimulated by $85 oil and we'll get growth out of it then we'll offset some of that $0.25.
So overall not material.
At the end of the day Eastman is just not an olefins play.
We continue to sort of get lumped into that category by some and they seem to be missing the fact that we've significantly transformed our portfolio.
This is becoming a smaller percentage.
And as we grow our specialty products and add Taminco to our portfolio it's going to become an even smaller percentage of our EPS in 2015.
And Mark if I can just clarify.
John that 25% EPS headwind is going into 2015.
Yes sorry.
That's -- this is a 2015 analysis.
We actually feel good about our position for 2014.
Our next question comes from Duffy Fischer of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A question kind of on competitive dynamics.
The Chinese are building out a lot of propylene molecules over the next couple of years and they're trying very hard to get to some of the downstream derivatives where you guys would compete like 2-EH.
When you look through your propylene derivative portfolio how do you think you're set up competitively versus kind of this onslaught from China over the next several years? We always look at that competitive situation.
The reality is it's already very competitive in China from a supply -- oversupply point of view and our margins have still held up quite well.
The vast majority of our 2-EH and other propylene derivatives that we sell out of SFI are sold in North America where we have a better industry structure and a better cost structure.
And we tend not to compete so much in Asia Pacific with those kind of products.
And then when you get to the specialty products we're not competing on a basis of propylene prices anyway.
We're competing on value so I don't think it's going to be significant.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the due diligence you did on Taminco one of the pushbacks I'm getting from some investors is it gives you ag exposure at a point when most investors don't want ag exposure.
When you did your due diligence what kind of downside if ag went into a 2-year down cycle let's say could we see out of that business? We of course looked at the ag exposure both short term and long term.
And first from a long-term point of view we feel great about the long-term macro trends for ag.
So really the question is just short term is there some risk specifically in crop products like corn and soybean with where prices have gone to demand for us? And when you really dig into the Taminco portfolio the amount of exposure in total earnings that they have to grow crops is not that high.
Their whole crop protection business actually goes in the high-value products -- fruits vegetables things like that where we don't see any risk to demand trends.
And they've got a great pipeline of new growth products going in crop protection.
So you're really talking about a small part of the functional means that go into ag.
And if we think -- we know there is some exposure there we factored in our valuation and we still feel good about our guidance.
And we'll move on to our next question from Frank Mitsch of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> You talked about a potential $0.25 headwind in 2015 which begs the question how are you thinking about 2015 in general and obviously that $8 marker that's out there? Mitsch I know I can always count on you asking this question so I appreciate it.
Well in this case I'm actually going to beg off a little bit to Investor Day.
We've put together a very compelling and exciting story about how Eastman is going to grow earnings in '15 and beyond for next week and I don't want to steal our thunder from next week.
But the short answer is I think we're going to do fine in 2015.
I still feel confident we're going to grow Eastman's earnings in a strong way into next year.
And then the Eastman -- and then the Taminco acquisition and the Commonwealth acquisition will add great earnings accretion to that growth.
So we still feel good about that.
Obviously if we stay in the $85 oil scenario next year there will be some mitigation to that growth that $0.25 roughly.
But you got to keep in mind that $0.25 out of our total EPS is a very small number on a percentage basis.
And it doesn't change our goal to grow -- deliver good growth in earnings next year over this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Well I certainly appreciate the teaser for the meeting next week.
And then just on A&amp;P.
You talk -- adhesives it looks like the second quarter now we're with pretty good growth.
How sustainable do you look at that? And then obviously on the plasticizer side you're still seeing some price competition.
What's the outlook there? First of all we feel great about how this business has stabilized and how it's improved this year and how we expect it to continue delivering earnings growth into the next couple of years which we'll of course address next week as well.
On the adhesives side what we see going on is demand's come back.
We had soft demand in '13 as we all know.
But hygiene hot melt adhesive packaging which is a very sophisticated application that requires high-performance resins we're seeing some great growth in that and great demand coming to us.
And then on the supply side the industry has just become tight again and that's allowed us to improve our pricing power and capture the value that we create for our customers.
So we see that as a good thing.
The resin crops came in a little below average and then the crop outlook for next year is that that's just finished and the resins are collecting off [ph] the hills today.
It looks like it's going to be slightly below average.
So the industry looks like it's going to stay tight going into next year.
Plasticizers demand growth has been very strong as people continue to switch to non-phthalates plasticizers.
And then the spread compression has offset that this year but we expect that to moderate because where pricing has reached I think we're reaching a point of stabilization on the pricing front as we go into next year.
We'll take our next question from Bob Koort of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give us an update on your PDH offtake -- that plant when you expect to actually start receiving material and how that might compare to the original time line.
Bob this is Greg.
I think what Enterprise has said publicly is that that would be online in early 2016 and I think that's just a little bit later than originally anticipated.
Research Division</strong> And is there -- I know you guys have some sort of bridge agreement until that plant started up.
Do you get the favorable cost plus economics during that bridge period? Or do you have to wait until that unit is actually producing? There is a propylene market contract that's in place.
It started in 2013 and...
And we're seeing the benefits of both today and that will continue until that product has -- project has come in online.
Research Division</strong> And relative to what somebody else asked earlier about oil and you mentioned it's a -- much ado about nothing maybe for Eastman.
I think you were right to point out you're not an olefins company.
I'm curious though given your feedstock base and some of your Appalachian coal exposure relative to maybe peers that are more oil-based I mean would you expect to see some compression in margins as maybe coal prices locally don't necessarily match up with what oil prices are doing globally? Or would we expect your raw material basket to echo changes in oil prices? Bob that's a great question.
First of all we love our cellulosic acid teal [ph] stream and its profitability.
And it is coal based here in Tennessee where we're one of the few companies in the world -- certainly the only company really outside of China that does coal gasification successfully.
And that position has translated into a lot of value for us.
When you look at the final products where we're selling those aren't really based on NAFTA and the competitor's cost structure is more of a natural gas kind of competition.
And the vast majority of our cellulosics that come off of our coal are very high-value specialty products that aren't trading on movements of raw materials on a daily monthly or even annual basis.
We'll take our next question from Nils Wallin of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the volume declines in acetate tow and you're also mentioning that you had Eastman-specific things that you could pull if you didn't see demand.
What are those Eastman-specific things? Are you -- would you consider closing any capacity going forward? And at what level in terms of margins or -- would you say it's time to start taking control of the market on your own? Well certainly there are a number of different choices we have in front of us.
One of those choices is capacity but we're not going to make any snap decisions here.
There's a lot of uncertainty in what's going on in the fibers market obviously with the change of demand pattern in China.
I think we're getting a good grip and understanding of that.
Were still in the beginning of contract season right now to see how our contracts will play out and therefore what our volume will be next year and more importantly what we think is going to happen with volume on a long-term basis not just reacting to short-term events.
And then we'll make the appropriate decisions of what is the best way to manage our cost structure if we see demand pressure but I'm not going to get into those details until it's appropriate.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then on Tritan the 15% growth is obviously quite strong.
Would you be able to parse out how much of that is just the capacity expansion versus market share gains? And what type of growth rate do you expect for that product going forward? Nils this is Greg.
The debottleneck as it's coming on line here in the fourth quarter is happening in the fourth quarter so that would not have affected the kind of growth that they had in the third quarter.
So that's still to come as the debottleneck gets completed.
But just to brag on the Tritan product and the team that has delivered such great growth across so many markets and applications.
This is a great business.
We've seen tremendous growth out of this business.
Last year was incredible.
This year has been very strong.
We see all kinds of applications coming our way in the future and new end markets like medical that we haven't even touched yet.
So we're going to continue investing against this and growing it.
And we'll take our next question from Kevin McCarthy of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on Advanced Materials market.
I think you cited a number of factors there driving it to the high end better mix raw materials lower fixed cost.
I was wondering if you could just kind of walk us through this -- those issues provide a little bit more color and where you're seeing the positive variances by product line.
Is it mainly Tritan or in the other pieces of the segment? Great question.
We're extremely happy with how Advanced Materials has been performing through the last few years and what we expect going forward.
And it is a -- it's a specialty product mix upgrade story that's very consistent all the way back to what we said at Investor Day in 2012.
And it's across the board.
So yes Tritan is showing tremendous growth and improvement.
It's a high-margin product.
We've got a great patent position which we -- we'll be able to sustain this advantage in the marketplace for many years to come.
And so that's a part of it.
But that's not the only part.
If you look at the interlayers business we're seeing tremendous growth in our acoustic interlayer products that go on automotive windshields not just further adoption of different OEMs but starting to put acoustics on the side windows so just an acceleration of growth relative to underlying demand.
And that's a great product and we're excited about the next-generation products we see there.
And in the window film business also showing good growth in China and North America.
We're still in the beginning of implementing our growth programs there.
So we see a lot of growth coming from that as we go into the future.
So it's really across the board that we see this story and we have a lot of capacity available in these segments.
We don't have to spend much capital except for Tritan to continue to grow and leverage that capacity so we get the fixed cost benefit.
And the other great thing about this business is the assets are very flexible.
So as we grow the specialty high-end value products we can shift and make those on the same assets we've been making some of the more core products over the past.
So we just get a lot of leverage in this business.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that.
And then a second question if I may for Curt.
Propane has been very volatile.
It started off the year as a trick.
And at the moment anyway it looks like a treat but you've got a lot of hedges in place.
Can you talk about 2015? And what can you tell us about hedge levels and ratios as we think about the economics versus the volatility? So as a reminder the intent of our commodity hedging program as you indicate is really to reduce earnings volatility related to input costs particularly like propane and natural gas.
And as I discussed earlier in the year we kind of changed our hedging philosophy.
Instead of just going out 6 months out we now go out multiple years to take advantage of forward curves as the year progresses.
So specifically on propane we -- I would characterize we have hedged a substantial portion of our purchases for the remaining of fourth quarter as well as 2015.
You can imagine I was taking those position -- our team was taking those positions during the course of this year which was probably just over $1 as a lot of those forward curves were reflecting at that time.
We use -- do use a combination of swaps and options and so we still get to enjoy some of the benefit as propane comes down going into next year.
But the swaps obviously are helping us kind get a predictable cost flow and reduce earnings volatility.
And as a reminder hedging is just one of the things we're doing to reduce the amount of focus the investment community tends to have on our olefins exposure.
And so this hedging program not only helps achieve reduced earnings volatility but it should lessen the focus on olefins for this company.
Our next question comes from Jeff Zekauskas of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Do you expect your filter tow volumes to grow next year? And if you do by what magnitude? As we look at filter tow volumes next year we don't expect them to grow.
We think that they're going to be stable to modestly down based on the logic that I just laid out but we still see the earnings being stable.
There's multiple factors including pricing and raw materials that go into our view of earnings and how we manage it as well the actions we can take.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess to follow up on Kevin's question.
If propane stays at $0.90 and you're hedged at $1 or a little bit more than $1 who -- with some offsets what's the effect on the income statement? Do you take hedging losses? Or how exactly does that ripple through the income segment? Yes.
Basically what that does is that that will just -- you'd still have the purchases -- underlying purchases of those lower raw materials.
But as a cash flow hedge it would offset some of that lower raw material costs.
From an earnings standpoint then that has the same type of effect.
It provides a stable cost position and we're not going to have volatile earnings that go up and down around that propane.
And that has -- that was factored into our analysis that Mark talked about where the net impact going into next year would be roughly $0.25 per share.
And Jeff just -- those hedges are just going to follow what propane's used so it'll show up in the segments that use that material.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly do you have a view on propylene for next year as to where you think it will settle and what exactly that -- and is your view that that would have a positive economic effect on you or a negative economic effect if it were lower? Jeff this is Curt.
That's a question we're going to be presenting next week as part of our overall view of what's going to help drive earnings growth for next year as one of several factors of input.
So if you don't mind stay tuned until next week.
And we'll take our next question from James Sheehan of SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on the tire market.
What gives you the confidence that we're seeing a real pick-up in the tire demand is it -- rather than just a seasonal impact? And also could you give us an update on your development of your rolling resistance product? Sure.
So the tire businesses they've got a great strategy they're going to share it with you next week that talks about Crystex being a solid source of earnings and then -- and these growth programs as you just mentioned.
When it comes to demand from what we can see from our customers and what you're going to see in their calls is I think demand is stabilizing improving overall globally for primary demand in tires.
Obviously we're going to benefit from that.
I think we're still doing a good job of defending our market share in the Crystex business and holding on to that growth as it comes our way.
To remind everyone we always expect to lose a little bit of market share so we expect to grow through 1/2 the rate of the market.
In a Crystex sense of the world and -- the hard data I have right now is very strong orders in October showing a recovery out of the third quarter.
But as I said I'd like to see several months in a row before we can call a recovery in sort of destocking and softness in tires.
From a growth program point of view we're seeing great success on our 2 top growth programs.
We'll tell you a lot more about that next week at Investor Day.
But the hydrocarbon resins that are going in as performance additive to improve wear -- improve traction on the tires is showing a lot of interest across a number of our tire OEMs.
And so we feel very good about that and seeing strong growth.
And then our cellulose ester is also going into -- as a performance additive for the tires is showing great excitement by our lead alpha customer.
We think we're headed towards commercialization soon on that so we feel great.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And on filter tow you mentioned the possibility of further inventory adjustments next year.
I'm just wondering how long can the products actually be stored before the customers actually have to replace it? The life of the product is not a material issue for the inventory adjustments here so I wouldn't be worried about that.
Our next question comes from Mike Sison of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Mark when you think about the portfolio now and Taminco coming in by year-end here what percent of the portfolio do you think in terms of your earnings power now is more specialty than more commoditized stuff going forward? Mike thanks for that question.
That's a great set-up for Investor Day.
We've actually spent a considerable amount of time evaluating -- first of all getting some clear definitions about what is specialty versus commodity and a third category we'll share with you next week and really getting a much clearer understanding of the entire portfolio of Eastman as well as thinking about Taminco and how that all fits and continues to transform our portfolio into being a much more stable variable margin business.
So I think that we'll give you a lot more insight which you're going to see is a great story of the commodity part of Eastman's portfolio becoming a very small percentage of our total.
And I'm looking forward to sharing that with you next week.
And Mark if I can add because it's a great opportunity to also highlight the pulp [ph] of the value of Taminco.
We do expect that to close before the end of the year.
Mark and I have actually had the benefit of going out and meeting the Taminco team and further understanding their businesses and I think we're very excited about the quality of businesses that they have the quality and capabilities of the Taminco team.
And I think that acquisition will be very complementary to the direction this company is going.
Research Division</strong> Sounds good.
And then real quick on Additives &amp; Functional Products.
This is the third year in a row earnings have been sort of flattish here.
What do you think needs to happen to get that business back on the growth trend longer term? Well as you look at AFP first of all the revenue growth has been great.
So we're seeing strong revenue growth in the coatings areas and some of our other formulary products.
Obviously we had some slow demand in tires but we may be turning the corner there as we've discussed.
The challenge this year hasn't been revenue it's been cost-driven.
And a number of those cost factors I think are to some degree isolated to this year.
So you had the huge propane increase and cost structure increase that impacted several of our businesses including AFP.
You had some of the planned outages that came in and then we've had some specific growth investments we're making around our next generation of technology for Crystex that provided a headwind this year that shouldn't continue into next year.
So we see revenue growth continuing into next year and we see the cost situation improving relative to this year and feel confident about delivering earnings growth next year from AFP.
And we'll move on to our next question from Laurence Alexander of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions one in the spirit of counting chickens before they're hatched.
Taminco was fairly vocal about having a pretty rich pipeline of fast payback acquisition targets such as the formic acid deal that they did.
Is there any strategic or integration-related reason why if their math checks out you wouldn't pull the trigger on those ideas faster than they could have? And secondly on FX what do you see as the headwinds at current level for Q4 and for next year? So on the acquisition front I'll take that question.
I'll give the FX to Curt.
On acquisition I do think they've got a robust portfolio of small bolt-on opportunities to continue building and extending their world leadership position that they have in alkylamines and like you said formic acid which is a nice related product to their market.
And we don't see any reason why we wouldn't continue to pursue those kind of opportunities.
Clearly we're going to be focused on delevering in the next 2 years from some of the debt we take on to buy Taminco.
So we're not going to be doing any other large acquisitions until we've improved our debt metrics but that doesn't mean we can't do small bolt-ons that have a great fit and create a lot of very quick payback for our shareholders.
And so we'll look at those and do those where they make sense.
On currency Laurence our primary exposure is the euro.
We have some exposure to the yen.
On the euro we do have an active hedging product that helps reduce the volatility from currency fluctuations.
You see that in our sales table and you continue to see currency not having any real material impact on revenues.
When we look at going into fourth quarter in terms of volatility there's a slight headwind.
But again mostly that's mitigated by our currency program.
I think as we get into '15 we'll talk more next week.
If the euro stays in that $1.25 to $1.30 level it will continue not to have a material impact on us going into next year.
And as we have no more questions I would like to turn the conference back over to Greg Riddle.
Okay.
Thanks again everyone for joining us this morning.
A Web replay and a replay in downloadable MP3 format will be available on our website beginning a little later this morning.
Have a great day.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company Fourth Quarter Full year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on the Eastmans Web site at www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jake and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Mark Costa CEO; Curt Espeland Executive Vice President and CFO; and Josh Morgan Manager Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover three items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the Company's fourth quarter and full year 2014 financial results news release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-Q filed for third quarter 2014 and the Form 10-K to be filed for 2014.
Second earnings per share and operating earnings referenced in this presentation exclude certain non-core or non-recurring costs charges and gains.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of excluded items are available in our fourth quarter and full year financial results news release which can be found at eastman.com in the Investors section.
Projections of future earnings in the financial presentation also exclude such items as described in the fourth quarter financial results news release.
Lastly we've posted slides that accompany our remarks for this morning's call on our Web site in the Presentations and Events section.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Ill begin on Slide 3.
2014 was a strong year for Eastman as we continue to make progress on our goal to becoming a leading specialty chemical company.
We delivered our fifth consecutive year of strong EPS growth despite a challenging global environment and volatile raw material environment.
We are very proud of that track record given that only 25% of the Companies in S&amp;P 500 have even accomplished this performance.
In 2014 we also generated free cash flow of $810 million consistent with our expectations.
This level of earnings growth and strong cash flow generation reflect how our world class technology platforms have enabled us to achieve success in expanding our leadership positions in diverse and attractive end markets and geographies accelerating our earnings growth with innovation driven specialty products and leveraging our advantage cost position through vertical integration and advantaged raw material positions.
We also completed four acquisitions during the year.
Each of these acquired businesses aligns well with our strategy of delivering consistent superior value.
In December we completed the largest of these acquisitions Taminco a highly successful global specialty chemical producer with market leading positions.
And Ill talk more about Taminco in the next slide.
During the year we also added several smaller bolt-on acquisitions to our portfolio.
Commonwealth Laminating &amp; Coating Knowlton Technologies and the Aviation Turbine Oil business from BP.
Both Commonwealth and the Aviation Turbine Oil business are great additions to our existing product portfolio in performance films and specialty fluids respectively.
The Knowlton acquisition was very attractive as it will enable us to accelerate the innovation cycle for our microfibers platform.
Each of these acquisitions represents a solid addition to our portfolio reflecting our commitment to use M&amp;A as means of creating value both earnings and cash flow.
We also made significant progress on our organic initiatives across the Company.
We continue to have double digit growth in our Tritan copolyester due to market adoption which will be supported by our fourth quarter expansion at our Kingsport site.
In addition we began work on an additional 60 000 metric ton expansion for Triatan which we expect to be operational in 2017.
We expect continued double digit growth in our premium acoustic and head-up display Saflex interlayer products and are proud of our successful launch of a new optical film product for the high growth mobile device market where we are already realizing strong growth.
Our rubber additives team has achieved rapid success in developing and validating a breakthrough technology for significantly reducing our Crystex manufacturing cost.
As a result we are currently retrofitting one of our assets in Europe with this technology and we intent to proceed with plan to double our Crystex insoluble sulfur capacity in Kuantan Malaysia with this technology as well which we expect to be operational in the first half of 2017.
In AFP we launched Omnia a new sustainable solvent for household cleaners and we expect to see great growth from that business as well.
I was particularly impressed with the speed of our team when they went from concept to successful product launch in 18 months which is outstanding for this industry.
We continue to see strong market switching to non-phthalate plasticizers and have completed an expansion of our 168 capacity to support our growth in this market where were leverage this trend.
Finally during the year we remain committed to returning cash to our stockholders by increasing our dividends for the fifth consecutive year and repurchasing more than $400 million of stock.
This front format is on so many fronts it is a great testament to the strength of the Eastman portfolio.
More importantly I am very fortunate to have such a great management team and a great group of employees who consistently overcome challenges and find ways to deliver results for our stakeholders.
And move to the next page as I mentioned we completed the acquisition of Taminco in December and I am very pleased to welcome Taminco employees to the Eastman team.
We are confident Taminco will be a great strategic fit in the deployment of our balance sheet.
We have diversified in attractive end markets with solid macro trends.
We will accelerate growth opportunities in personal care coatings and oil and gas markets across the portfolio.
And we see substantial opportunities to leverage our strengths in creating value from their similar business model that leverages a world class integrated stream.
As we look at projected earnings from Tamincos business for 2015 we expect them to continue to deliver solid top line growth and operating earnings to be modestly higher than 2014 which is consistent with our previous expectations.
Were also on track with our synergy targets.
With the integration of Tamincos businesses and various purchase accounting adjustments we expect approximately 75% of Tamincos total operating earnings will be added in functional products where we are locating the specialty amines in crop protection businesses and approximately 25% will be in specialty foods and intermediates where the functional amines business will be located.
We remain on track for EPS accretion from Taminco to be greater than $0.35 in 2015 and greater than $0.60 in 2016 excluding acquisition and integration cost.
Now Ill turn over to Curt to discuss the corporate and segment results.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Ill start with our fourth quarter and full year corporate results on Slide 5.
For the fourth quarter sales revenue increased largely due to continued high sales volume for premium products in the Advanced Material segment and sales of products of the acquired Taminco businesses.
Operating earnings in the fourth quarter also increased driven by lower raw material energy cost the higher premium product sales in advanced materials and earnings from the acquired businesses partially offset by higher plan maintenance cost.
For full year 2014 we delivered another strong year at $7.07 of earnings per share which is a 10% growth over 2013 and as Mark mentioned our fifth consecutive year of earnings growth.
Sales revenue increased 2% due to growth in Advanced Materials and Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers segments and sales revenue from acquired businesses.
Operating earnings were slightly higher year-over-year as higher volume and improved product mix particularly in Advanced Materials and earnings of acquired businesses more than offset higher raw material and energy cost and higher cost related to manufacturing shutdowns during the year.
Our operating margin remains strong at 17% consistent with full year 2013.
Moving next to the segment results and starting with Additives &amp; Functional Products in Slide 6.
For fourth quarter both sales revenue and operating earnings increased due to the addition of sales from the acquired Taminco specialty amines and crop protection businesses.
For the full year sales revenue increased due to both higher sales volume and prices for coatings product lines and sales of the acquired Taminco product lines partially offset by lower rubber additive sales volumes.
Both the higher sales volume and pricing for coatings was attributed to strong end market demand throughout the year primarily in the building and construction and transportation markets.
The lower rubber additive sales volume was primarily attributed to decreased tire production in Asia.
Full year operating earnings declined as higher raw material and energy costs primarily propane in the first half of the year more than offset higher prices and earnings from acquired Taminco businesses.
As we look at 2015 we expect that Additives &amp; Functional Products will be positively impacted by the full year benefit of acquired Taminco businesses and solid performance from Heritage Eastman businesses due to volume growth in coatings and to some extent tire additives.
These benefits will be partially offset by the negative impact of a decline in often derivative pricing outpacing the decline in raw material cost due to impact of propane hedges and a strengthening U.S.
particularly against the Euro.
Both of these challenges will impact all of our segments to some degree so Ill cover them in more detail in a few minutes.
Taking together we expect strong earnings growth for this segment with the addition of Taminco somewhat offset by modest decline in the Heritage Eastman businesses as the benefit of underlying growth is offset by the oil and currency challenges.
Moving next to Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers on Slide 7.
For the fourth quarter sales revenue declined primarily due to lower adhesive resin sales volume resulting from limited raw material availability.
Fourth quarter earnings increased due to higher adhesive resin prices lower raw material and energy cost and lower operating cost which included targeted cost reductions.
These lower costs were partially offset by costs of the planned shutdown of an olefins cracking unit at the Longview Texas site and lower plasticizer selling prices.
For the full year sales revenue increased due to higher plasticizer and adhesives resins volume partially offset by lower selling prices primarily for plasticizers.
Full year operating earnings increased significantly primarily due to higher sales volume and corresponding higher capacity utilization and lower operating cost partially offset by the lower selling prices.
Looking forward to 2015 we expect continued growth for our Eastman 168 non-phthalate plasticizers but an otherwise challenging global plasticizers market will continue to pressure margins primarily due to competition from Asia producers.
We also expect adhesives resins market to remain tight due to solid demand growth particularly in the hygiene and packaging markets and limited availability for the industry of key raw materials.
Putting this all together we expect Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers will deliver strong earnings growth but this growth to mostly offset by the impact of oil and currency.
Now to Advanced Materials on Slide 8 which delivered another excellent year.
Fourth quarter and full year sales revenue increased slightly as stronger volume growth for premium products including Eastman Tritan copolyesters interlayers with acoustic properties and window films was offset by lower core copolyester products selling prices primarily due to lower raw material and energy costs and an unfavorable shift in foreign currency rates.
Full year sales revenue also increased slightly as higher premium product sales volume including Tritan and the interlayers with acoustic properties was largely offset by core copolyesters selling prices.
Earnings increased both in the fourth quarter and for the full year due to higher sales volume in improved mix.
As we continue to have growth in our all premium products including Tritan copolyesters and acoustic interlayers.
The full year 2014 operating margin improved nicely to over 12% moving the segment into the range we expect for this business of 12% to 15%.
Looking to 2015 we continue to make progress and our strategy for this business volume growth mixed improvement and fixed cost leverage.
Advanced materials will also benefit from lower raw materials in the Commonwealth acquisition which we expect to be a strong contributor earnings growth in 2015.
As a result we expect continued strong earnings growth in the segment somewhat offset by currency headwinds.
Moving to Fibers on Slide 9.
Fourth quarter sales revenue was relatively unchanged as higher selling prices for acetate tow and increased flake sales to our China joint venture were largely offset by lower sales volume for acetyl chemicals.
Fourth quarter operating earnings were slightly with the higher tow selling prices more than offsetting lower sales volume and our unit cost due to lower acetate tow capacity utilization.
For the full year sales revenue was slightly higher driven by acetate tow selling prices and higher acetate flake sales volume to our China tow joint venture more than offsetting lower acetate tow sales volume.
The lower acetate tow sales volume was attributed to additional industry capacity including our joint venture.
Full year earnings increased due to higher selling prices in lower raw material and energy costs partially offset by lower tow sales volume and lower capacity utilization.
Looking forward to 2015.
We expect continued acetate tow inventory destocking which is larger and broader to more customers than we originally anticipated.
We expect this will be most pronounced in the first-half of 2015.
We also expect lower raw material and energy cost particularly for wood pulp and we are actively reviewing options to reduce cost for this segment to help improve overall results.
Taken this together we expect full year 2015 earnings to be down between $40 million and $50 million compared to 2014.
With that said we expect global acetate tow demand to stabilize once the inventory destocking is behind us and we continue to pursue actions to improve the overall cost position of this business.
As a result longer-term we are optimistic this business will recover to an earnings profile consistent with our Investor Day expectation.
Ill finish the segment review with Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates on Slide 10.
Fourth quarter sales revenue increased due to the sale of products of acquired businesses more than offsetting lower prices for olefin-based intermediates and heat transfer fluids.
Fourth quarter operating earnings decline primarily due to the impact of the planned shutdowns of an olefins cracking unit and the lower selling prices partially offset by lower raw material and energy costs and earnings of acquired aviation turbine oil businesses.
For the full year sales revenue was flat as sales of products of acquired businesses and higher selling prices were offset by lower sales volume.
The lower sales volume was due to manufacturing capacity shutdown increased use downstream use of intermediates in other parts of the company and weakness in the heat transfer fluids market.
Full year operating earnings were lower primarily due to the higher raw material and energy cost primarily propane in the first-half for the year and cost of manufacturing capacity shutdowns partially offset by higher intermediate selling prices and earnings from acquired businesses.
Looking forward to 2015 Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates will be positively impacted by the addition of the Taminco functional amines businesses.
They will also benefit from the full year impact of the aviation turbine oil business challenges include the negative impact of oil lower expected demand in heat transfer fluids and expected lower volume in intermediates and parts due to continued downstream use of intermediates in other parts of the company.
As a result we expect 2015 earnings to be somewhat lower than 2014.
On Slide 11 Ill transition to an overview of our cash and other financial highlights for 2014.
We did an excellent job of generating cash in 2014 with operating cash flow of $1.4 billion.
This is a record for cash from operations.
Our free cash flow was $810 million for the year consistent with our expectations.
Capital expenditures totaled $593 million including the impact of acquired businesses which was also consistent with the guidance we provided.
Looking at the balance sheet net-debt stands at approximately $7 billion at the end of the year reflecting the addition of the Taminco financing.
During fourth quarter we successfully issued $2 billion in bonds which maturities of 5 10 and 30 years.
This was a very successful issue reflected in our strong balance sheet and cash flow profile.
These new bonds fit nicely into our maturity profile actually increasing the average duration of our bond portfolio while lowering the average interest rates.
Our overall cost to financing for Taminco acquisitions was approximately 2.8% including the previously disclosed $1 billion term loan.
Over the next two years we'll focus on paying down debt as part of our commitment to return our credit metrics consistent with our investment rate credit rating.
This is also a good opportunity to remind everyone that Eastman has access to sufficient liquidity in addition to our strong cash flow in a form of 1.25 billion revolvers and a $250 million accounts receivable securitization program.
The combination of cash flow is from balance sheet and liquidity continues to provide flexibility to pursue growth even in uncertain economy.
Moving back to fourth quarter results a few items to highlight.
Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter pro-forma earnings was 22% reflecting the one year extension of favorable U.S Federal tax provisions which resulted in a net benefit of $15 million.
This benefit was primarily related to research and development credits and deferral certain earnings of foreign subsidiaries from U.S.
income taxes.
The full-year 2014 effective tax rate on pro-forma earnings was 26 percent compared to 28 percent for full year 2013.
This lower rates reflects the continued benefit of the integration of Eastman and Solutia business operations and legal entity structures.
In addition GAAP earnings were impacted by a mark-to-market loss of $304 million related to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans.
This loss was primarily driven by the change in discount rates increasing our estimated pension liabilities.
We also had acquisition related cost at $31 million related primarily to Taminco and common wealth.
On Slide 12 I'll discuss some key assumptions for our projections in 2015.
In retrospect as compared to we shared back at November in our Investor Day.
Our projections for global growth remains at approximately 3% of course there is uncertainty in this projection.
But we are currently seeing solid demand in our order books.
Moving next to raw materials we are expecting our key raw materials propane ethane terephalane et cetra to be consistent with recent forward cruse to the end of the year or throughout the end of this year.
And as you're seeing most of this four occurs do not anticipate any dramatic change during the course of the year.
So we'll see how that plays out but regardless this is obviously a big change compared with our Investor Day projections when [brent] crude was projected to be a $100 per barrel.
We expect the dollar to euro exchange range to remain their current levels at approximately $1.15 per Euro.
And this is another big change from our investor day where we had projected between the $1.25 and $1.30 per Euro and was actually higher than the 2014 average of just over $1.13 per Euro.
This results in a year over year earnings per share headwind of $0.25 to $0.30 per share including mitigation from our currency hedging program.
Our tax rate is expected to be between 26% and 27% reflecting the continued benefits of our improvement and business operations and legal entity structures resulting from acquisitions.
The range of the effective tax rate reflects uncertainty as to whether there we further extension of the R&amp;D tax credit and potentially changes to our geographic range mix.
Finally we continue to expect to offset dilution with share repurchases.
Lastly I thought it would helpful to provide some color and how we project the lower impact of crude oil on our Olefins related businesses here shown on Slide 13.
Unlike Investor Day my comments were focus only on olefins and not include actions we are taking across the Company portfolio.
First propylene and ethylene prices are expected to decline to some extent with oil.
Second on an on hedge basis we expect cracking spreads to expand as ethane and propane cost has brought.
In particular Eastman's cracking configuration towards a heavy propane mix has vanished at this time.
However our hedging strategies that we had taken to reduce volatility in our propane and other input cost have become a significant headwind given the unprecedented recent drop in the price of propane.
Obviously we and rest of the world do not foresee this dramatic drop in oil or propane prices and also don't think anyone really know exactly where these prices are going to settle up from here.
As a result although propane although dropping more than ethane is generally positive for us.
This benefit will be more than offset by the impact of our propane hedges resulting in expected earnings of $0.40 to $0.50 per share for 2015.
Having said that I want to be clear that this analysis is broad a directional exercise as the vast majority of our Olefin related earnings come from derivatives with the exception of bulk Olefin sales.
Our Olefin derivative pricing does not directly track olefin prices across the portfolio on a monthly basis.
While the commodity will track fairly tightly the majority of our derivatives as specialties or special position product line were we have additional dynamics that impact value captured relative to olefins.
Our estimated $0.40 to $0.50 per share does not include our efforts to mitigate this headwind by holding on to value in our specialty and special position product line as olefin prices decline.
My last point on the slide you can see that the benefit of producing olefins for mainly small part of our overall earnings profile in part reflected actions we've taken to strength our portfolio including the additions of Solutia at Taminco which were not meaningfully exposed to these spreads.
So with that I thank you for your time and your interest in Eastman Chemical and I will turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Curt.
As we look at our earnings growth potential for 2015 and beyond we feel great about our strategy which we discussed in detail at Investor Day.
We have strong growth drivers in place across the Company; we have a solid portfolio of specialty businesses that are well positioned to grow.
Solid end market growth especially in transportation and B&amp;C end markets.
Strong premium products that we expect to accelerate earnings growth especially advanced materials.
We're working hard to hold on to the raw material tailwinds in our specialty products.
We also expect to benefit in 2015 from significant accretion from the attractive acquisitions we completed in 2014.
I would also note that our acquisitions are mostly neutral volatile oil and manufactured in the regions where they sell.
These additions are great improvements to the robust mix of our portfolio.
Obviously we faced some short-term headwinds like many U.S companies but we don't think any of them undermining our long-term strategy.
The unprecedented change in oil prices has created a challenge with our current propane hedge and some uncertainty about how competitive credit flow might change.
The dollar has strengthened considerably against the basket of currencies most notably for us against the euro.
And while we anticipated that a risk of inventory destocking existed in fibers we now have a better understanding that the level of destocking is larger more broader than we expected across the customer base.
Given all that we expect our full year 2015 EPS to be similar to 2014 EPS.
With the split between the first half and the second half of the year and being consistent with our history.
As we consider the sensitivity of this outlook we can't see a pathway to earnings growth.
If the drop in oil prices is predominantly driven by supply then it should be a stimulus to economic demand and this benefit can show up in several different ways.
First many of our customers are maintaining very low inventory level and as oil prices stabilize and go up we could see some restocking.
Second we believe that oil prices will also be a long-term stimulus to global GDP and great for Eastman's specialty strategy where we're selling high value differentiated products that are leveraged in economic recovery.
Third improving demand will tighten supply to demand balances in some of the industries as well.
Of course if we're headed into a global economic slowdown the declining demand and further reduction of oil prices will face the challenge.
As I think about our cash flow and the next stage I believe our cash flow is one of Eastman's greatest strengths and we continue to generate very strong free cash flow in 2014 and we expect to do it again in 2015.
With our current outlook we expect approximately $1.6 billion of operating cash flow.
This outlook reflects current earnings expectations as well as some improvement in working capital resulting from lower commodity cost.
Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $700 million to $725 million this reflects normal maintenance capital as well as some additional infrastructure spending.
This also reflects growth capital this year for the expansion of our Tritan copolyester capacity and our new Crystex capacity in Malaysia.
Free cash flow is expected to be approximately $850 million to $900 million and this is a nice improvement over 2014.
As a reminder our priority for free cash flow over the next 24 months is deleveraging our debt.
While doing so it is reasonable for investors to expect it will continue to increase our dividend and we expect to offset dilution with stock repurchases.
And as we continue to generate very strong free cash flow over the coming years we will continue to employ capital in a balanced and disciplined way.
We now want to reflect what we said at Investor Day.
I firmly believe that our strategy is intact and we will deliver strong consistent earnings growth and compelling free cash flow overtime.
We have obviously hit some short-term headwinds that we and most of the world did not expect but our portfolio of businesses is robust and capable of offsetting these challenges and finding pathways to grow.
These challenges are a headwind as we head into 2015 but are not likely to be an additional headwind in 2016.
The growth drivers of our portfolio are strong overtime and we will continue to deliver strong earnings growth and compelling free cash flow.
We remain confident that we will continue to create value for our stockholders and all of our stakeholders.
With that I will turn it back over to Gregory.
Thanks Mark.
We've got a lot of people on the line this morning we would like to get to as many questions as possible so please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
With that Jake we're ready for questions.
Mark with regard to the fibers business if we think back to your Investor Day sounded like you were contemplating some optionality to take restructuring action in that business.
Listening to the language on the call today I heard a lot about destocking there so I guess a two part question.
First what's your degree of confidence that the weakness you are seeing is in fact destocking versus perhaps a more structural or durable weakness in the business.
And then secondly how are you thinking about potential to reduce cost in that context and what might be the timeline for your decision there? Good morning Kevin thank you for the question.
So I will start with the demand side of that question I want to start first with our view about primary demand as you are getting out and then tow demand.
So if you think about primary consumer demand we dont have any change in our view about the outlook of demand in the medium term.
We continue to expect developed world to slowly declined the developing world including China to show some growth.
And then the real question then it settles on whats happening in China.
As we look at back at 2014 demand was relatively flat at the consumption level in China.
And everything were being told about that continues to suggest that primary driver for that flatness was austerity measures changing the use environment of cigarettes and if we believe that to be true and we are not hearing anything otherwise thats like a destocking even where you take a chunk of demand out but when you look at population modeling and growth you would then expect demand growth to return at a modest level in China.
So that although holding together we are not seeing any change in that from all of our sources which is primarily talking to our customers.
When you get to tow demand as we discussed last year there are two different dynamics going on when you go from demand in 14 to 15.
The first is CNTC in China has added additional capacity like they added capacity with us in 14.
They have added some additional capacity to [dye] sale.
And so of course they are going to run those assets full as they own them and that takes a certain chunk of demand out of the imports which was factored into our guidance back in Investor Day thats not really a surprise for us.
The second part is we expected some modest destocking but all the customers who come to us and been very clear that they are going to do some amount of destocking particular in China.
And where it behind that and were it makes sense to us Kevin is from 2011 to 13 you saw a tremendous tightness in capacity unitization this industry close to 100%.
So lot of customers were carrying a safety stock to make sure that they didnt run out and makes a lot of sense when you look at how small of a percentage tow is of the final price of the cigarette not a place you want to run out in short your production sales.
And then with the slowdown in demand and this capacity add in China obviously the capacity utilization loosing up a little bit and customers have felt that its more appropriate to destock some of that safety stock and readjust their inventory.
So everything we know suggests that its destocking if we believe that to be true then there is reason to believe that demand in 16 could actually be higher than 15 and thats the best that we know of that part.
So when we get to sort of what we do about that well we want to make sure we understood exactly how demand is going to play out across all of customers and finish the contracting which happened this week.
So if you are pretty good about sort of knowing where we stand and now of course you take an assessment all of what I have said and decide most appropriate actions to take on the cost structure side.
We are actively in the middle of making those decisions and its inappropriate for us to discuss them further and what finalize those decision.
Fair enough I appreciate the color.
As a follow-up perhaps for Curt do you have any propane hedges that extend into 2016? And if so would you comment on the level and ratio I suppose.
Kevin when we implemented our propane change last year we did talk about multiyear program so it does extend beyond a couple of years but the focus of that typically is the first couple of years thats where we are taking most of the focus.
But we will have some tail going beyond that but is not as significant as what we talked about next two years.
And now I will take the next question from David Begleiter from Deutsche Bank.
Thank you Mark.
Just again propane are there any other actions you are looking at or could take in 15 to coming at the lower end or below the $0.40 to $0.50 propane hedge? So David on the hedge it is what it is.
What we are doing most of importantly on the price side is we are fighting hard to hold on the value that we create for our customers with our products and hold on that somewhere that raw material tailwinds at all the places that we can.
And that will have variant degrees a success offset some of that headwind.
So thats going on right now.
In addition we expect to and plan to run our cracker as well.
We did a big turnaround last fall.
And the big cracker thats come up is running incredibly well with that cracker and other efforts to leverage towards propane mix as much as we can will advantage us because that will be all spot propane purchases at very advantage of prices.
So there are things we are doing both on the volume side and pricing side to get the maximum value out of that advantage position we have with our propane crackers.
And Curt just again on the 16 impact versus 15 would it be fair to say that the benefit in 16 versus 15 from the lack of propane hedges to be $0.20 or $0.30 a share? I would say Kevin as I mentioned on our Investor Day the program that we put in place hedge substantially amount of our purchase of propane in 15 and 16.
And I would not be expecting material change between those two.
So it will be a tailwind but I am not going to try to quantify that at this point.
And we will take a question from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo Securities.
I was looking at Slide 13 and I see that the operating earnings or indicated up for 2015 I know your interest cost have gone up.
But as I do the math on some of the puts and takes in terms of negatives obviously you got the hedge $0.50 foreign exchange $0.25 fibers destock and other $0.20 or so so about $0.95 to a $1 negative offsetting that to make positive $0.35 to turnaround assuming you dont have it in 15 versus 14 so another $0.10 so it's a positive $0.45.
So you got about $0.50 $0.55 of a whole so to keep it flat you would need to grow earnings about 7% to 8% obviously Eastmans targeted goal is to do double-digits could be there be room of a couple of percent or so in terms of earnings growth if Eastman hits kind of is double-digit EPS growth goals? I knew I can count on you for the growth math question.
Your math is actually incorrect you're actually missing out on some additional accretion so Taminco wasnt the only acquisition we did weve got some nice accretion coming in from BP turbine oil Commonwealth little bit more share count advantage rolling into the year.
So I think of acquisitions being $0.50 or little bit above $0.50 of accretion.
So then you're talking about how do I hold on to value were certainly tend to run our plans better as you mentioned we still have some decent amount of shutdowns coming in this year so there is not a huge planned shutdown differential from year-to-year and we certainly plan to run better.
So you were talking about can we do better than either $0.50 to $0.40 a share organic in our portfolio thats certainly is our goal and were driving really hard on all fronts to do that I think we see very solid demand trends especially B&amp;C and transportation durables especially in U.S.
and it's a nice actually having 50% of our -- little bit less than 50% of our revenue in the U.S.
these days and were pretty happy that our exposure to Europe is one of the lower ones relative to our peers from both the currency and weak demand point of view.
So I think our portfolio is very well positioned for primary demand more importantly we get a lot of accelerate earnings growth out of our earnings in premium price especially of Advanced Materials where were selling double-digit growth rates and things like Tritan Acoustics heads up displays window films resins and tires and AFP all of which are accelerating earnings growth within that top-line growth as those margin are quite attractive.
So it all adds up where we feel they are good about that driving to that $0.50 and to get beyond $0.50 you need to believe that demand is going to be a little bit better this year than the overall demand growth that we saw last year.
And I think there is every reason to believe thats possible I mean the camp that oil is supply driven primarily therefore is a global stimulus to demand and there is potentially some restocking that if we get if oil price stabilize and all that can show up as some stronger demand than what we have in our current outlook and put us on a path but it's a beginning of a year and a very volatile year right now Frank we know when the oil prices are going or trade flows are going to change and so I think it's prudent at this point just see how it plays out we get lot more insider for the first quarter and be in a much better position to discuss this when we get through the first quarter.
That is very helpful much appreciated.
And maybe if you can provide an update I know that in previous discussions of Eastman actions the technology licensing was something that perhaps would show up in late 15 or early 16 can you talk about what your expectations are there? Sure we have some small amount of licensing that we do expect to get in 2015 and thats included in our comments around SFI which is where that licensing value shows up there is some bigger licenses that weve been working on but given the uncertainty of them were not including that in the forecast and that will be upside if they happen either this year or next year.
Back on slide 13 is there a hit to your coal based operations as well from lower oil that is do things like acidic anhydride acetaldehyde come down with oil prices and again your coal cost are relatively fix? No so much the best material of our coal derive products are sale investors whether it's going into fibers or grade specialty products are going to our display business in some specialty plastics or very high value additives that go into automotive coatings and other applications in AFP and all of those are very well positioned and the real competitor is natural gas actually not oil from the competitive cost base and that were up against and were not seeing any significant changes in natural gas and the raw materials are relatively small part of those cost structures.
So it's not a main factor like it is in the olefins discussion.
Then there is a follow-up I think you said the $0.25 to $0.30 currency hit was after hedging could you comment on your foreign exchange hedging practices? Sure similar to what I talked about all of them we do have a multi-year hedging program on currencies to remove volatility that could result from that.
Youve been seeing that benefit over the last couple of years we havent really seen currency is enough factor because of the dramatic decline you see the impact weve quantified and Id say roughly our hedge position in 2015 is about 50% hedge.
Are there any press of your portfolio where given the move in oil and everything else where you think some of your competitors might now have a better cost position and may be more likely to either increase production or be able to export to other markets or how you are thinking about that? So certainly as we view this sort of olefin analysis and in particular where youre seeing the biggest impact from an oil point of view.
Thats all factored into our thinking when you sat that $0.40 $0.60 headwind because thats the change and they are not the oil drive cost structures across the globe and how that impacts our U.S cost position.
So thats included in that discussion.
I think the other place we're getting nice tailwinds like all of our competitors on an equal basis Para xylene and Benzene drive products were all in the same both together and we're not seeing any significant sort of changes in the way of cost position in those places.
I have no doubt that as European and Asians getting improvement in the cost structure there are going to be more aggressive and we factor that our thinking.
But we still think that we're putting lot more value and just price in our relationships with the customers we have a lot of great specialty products and differentiate positions and those will endure some of those threats.
Okay and then if I could just on your amines business now number of the large herbicide manufactures have spoken about storing some excess inventory in a chain that their volumes are going be down.
How does that work with Taminco? So Taminco first of Taminco is a great portfolio of business in a very diverse side in the markets and niche applications.
You have to keep that in mind where Ag is specifically row crops where the current concerns seems us sit specifically even more so on corn.
Thats a pretty small percentage of Taminco's overall revenue so only about 10% of Tamico's total revenue associated with row crops.
All of crop protection which is the high value high margin specialties going to perishable vegetables fruits flower type market that they are expected very consistent demand year over year.
But within that area lot of products go into both soybeans corns so as the mix of shifting from corn to soybean that doesnt actually effect as.
And of course we do expect some modest amount of headwind on the corn side but other than that it will still be growth for us because there is a lot destocking in the big winter hit last year.
So even in the herbicide area for us -- even where we sitting to supply chain we still foresee some growth in that 10% year-over-year based on what our customers are telling us.
Could you comment on the tire additives in Crystex outlook for 2015? Sure great business really excited about our technology breakthrough and the investments we're making to grow this business improve our cost position.
In addition to my prepared remarks the great thing about this technologies also going to allow us to have differentiated products not just cheaper ones from the cost point of view.
Therefore a lot of opportunities to grow from a primary market demand point of view we expect tire demand growth in '15 versus '14 this industry is had tough couple of years '14 was a tough year especially for Crystex which is highly leveraged to commercial tires and construction and mining tires.
So obviously '14 wasnt a good year especially in Asia Pacific.
But everything we can see right now from our customer suggests that we're going to have solid growth this year on the demand side.
We are very committed to maintaining our market share with our new technology in product advantages and growing with that market as we go forward and so we feel good about it.
What's the latest status of the pipeline line dispute? This is Curt as it relates to the pipeline as you've seen the various rulings that are come up in the Texas railroad commission continue to be always in our favorite including the unlawful discriminatory action by West Lake to remove the bidirectional flow as well as the pipeline for exchanges.
It is unfortunate these disputes have kind of delayed our ability to get something done and pursue actions with our excess that way in the last few and half.
Do you take that now combine with the current oil environment that makes kind of unlikely we're getting thing done soon with that excess [indiscernible] wing positions.
So were still looking options but right now it's not likely to have an intention.
Your volume growth in additive was 14% in the quarter and fluids I think was plus 4.
If you pick up the acquisition benefits what would those numbers have been? You would have saw some slight growth in those segment other than that is the function of products I think we talked about there was benefit of improvement in volume and are nice coating product line offset by some maybe lower tire added to those product lines.
And normally in the fourth quarter your operating cash flow rises versus third quarter and this year the sequential comparison was weaker and I think you had use this year of working capital of around 250 million.
Can you speak to what happen to the fourth quarter cash flow or why this year was different than your historical pattern? Sure so if you look at just a trend of cash flows in 2014 versus 2013.
First of all our cash conversion cycle metrics have actually improved year-over-year.
And so we're still seeing good working capital management.
The main drivers to the third and fourth quarter Jeff quite honestly just a timing difference in when we made our pension contributions as well just how tax payments flowed.
So it's really those two items on a quarterly but then well not that dramatically year-over-year.
Regarding the propane hedge and I remember Eastman always used to hedge against propane during winter but now you are putting on hedges for going out couple of years for propane also for FX.
What's behind the change in strategy? As you know Eastman has had an active hedging program for a number of years PJ consistent some of the changes and discussions we had whether it's commodities currencies interest rates et cetera.
We talked last year and we were pretty transparent on this change that consistent with our strategy to deliver consistent year-over-year earnings growth we revised our propane hedging program from that winter spike protection you mentioned to a multi-year program in 2014.
Such change in the program was not taken lightly it was discussed broadly amongst our executive team it was based on good fundamental analysis and inputs from industry experts which well indicating propane was going to remain volatile much like it did the last few years and as result propane varied from $0.80 a gallon to a $1.50 gallon.
Further all those indications at the time pointed to higher propane cost as the impact of PDH units and expert terminals were supposed to result in U.S propane prices increasing to be more aligned with global prices.
So when we assessed that case and we assessed what other different scenarios could play out we look at the likelihood that propane would drop below $0.80 a gallon and that would here mean it would have had to been even more than it did back in 2009 in recessionary period.
So we looked at that as a very extremely remote scenario but nonetheless we know where we're at today the oil shock has in fact occurred and we recognized we will need to work through these hedge positions over the next three years.
And just to add to that I mean clearly we're a bit of a black swan when it comes to oil even last October the propane forward market was just above a $1 a gallon so no one really saw this coming and it's an extreme case.
I think it is important to keep in mind that what our goal was was to try and neutralize and frankly get olefins off the table obviously but that objective didn't sort of workout.
But when you think about capital deployment -- how were growing our Company you need to step back and realize that while this is an important short-term issue and we're managing it as aggressively as we possibly can.
Our strategy is to grow our company in specialty products our capital deployment centered on organic investments capital deployment in specialty products like Tritan like Crystex and microfibers.
Our acquisition are centered on adding great portfolios of businesses that are durable under these kind of volatile scenarios and have great ways to grow with nice macro trends.
So the things that we're controlling that we're investing in and that give long-term growth are all sort of moving in that direction and reducing the amount of olefins is part of our portfolio.
We intentionally choose a strategy not to be investing against the spread of oil versus Shell gas in large investments.
Obviously we're not happy about this hedge but the hedge also rolls off over the next couple of years.
And even if you look at it on a short-term basis more like '15 to '16 I don't expect it to be a headwind in '16 unless we think oil is going to further drop from here and I think most people have of the view that it's stable to up and then we're backing to growing earnings 8% to 12% in '16 or '15 per our strategy.
When you sort of think about this whole oil scenario is really just a '15 type issue for us.
And secondly adhesive volumes breakdown I mean on the last quarter you talked about lower rosin supply from this year's crop and how do you see that impacting your resin pricing.
And then in terms of volumes what do you think is going in the Chinese adhesive market? Thank you.
Adhesives has had a nice recovery in '14 to '13 and we expect it to continue into '15.
So we're seeing very strong solid demand growth in hygiene high value packaging applications that use our more advantaged hydrogenated resins so it's been a nice demand story in '14 and that will continue into '15.
What we also see is the availability of hydrocarbon raw materials to make resins became tighter again relative to demand growth and we got some surprising power back and we are able to start improving our margins.
And as part of that question rosin prices have been relatively stable at a more normalized level so it's not as attractive to substitute from hydrocarbons to rosins as it was back in 2013 and that's expected to stay pretty stable consistent in '15.
So we just continue to think of this business is having continued recovery which will be a balance of creating value for our shareholders with price and volume as that raw material market is also a little bit tied to the whole industry on making hydrocarbon resins so we're going to create value with both levers.
In your free cash flow bridge for 2015 what is your working capital assumption and then have seen working capital days evolving in 2016 2017? So generally speaking I expect our cash conversion cycle to be roughly the same.
Particularly what we focus on mostly is the quantity when we look at items like inventory.
So as we work through that business-by-business look at where some of their growth is going to be and understand a working capital requirements et cetera.
I generally think it will be flat.
Now we will also try to estimate the impact of the flow through lower raws that we have been talking about today on a net basis so we have factored in that as well.
So when I think about working capital 15 over 14 on a net-debt I think its going to be a slight headwind for us a cash basis going into 15.
Okay and then on Taminco you addressed sort of the Ag impact for amines on the volume side are you seeing any pressure on margins for that industry for that business either in 2015 or going into 2016? No we are not seeing any pressures on the margin side.
I will remind you that most of Tamincos businesses is long-term contracted pricing structures are typically cost pass-through so olefins go down they are going to pass-through if it goes up it passes through.
So in general I dont think there is anything meaningful from a price point view they of course have some modest currency headwinds in their European operations but its not significant relative to some of the other parts of our portfolio.
So thats not really a concern.
And now moving to the next question that will come from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
At least in Taminco I know thats chlorine chloride other product that serves the drilling industry and you guys started to see some erosion in demand trends for any of your energy application? Hey Bob good question.
We are looking at that right now the chlorine chloride is a pretty small percentage of the total portfolio for fracking.
Some of that goes into cleaning up sour gas which isnt as vulnerable as some of those dynamic of the oil right now.
But we arent seeing any dramatic trends yet in the demand and it seems pretty solid starting out year but our forecast includes an expectation of softening demand growth in that business towards the back half of the year.
You cant avoid the news of how people cutting back on drilling right now.
And so we expect that to be little bit more modest.
But its a very small percentage of the total revenue today.
So not a big exposure.
Let me ask you -- maybe its more of a theoretical question but it seems to be Eastman is positioned like many companies between cracker outputs and ultimate consumer products.
And we are seeing a lot of the output some of these refineries crackers have melted down and we also hear from a lot of consumer the end market companies saying they havent really seen any great windfall yet so it would seem that there is a whole slug of profitability out there that somebody should be grabbing at the moment.
And maybe Eastman given where you are across that supply chain so is there potential for that to happen? Are the customers just too aggressive in seeking out their share of that raw material? Is there something about your particular portfolio that doesnt expose you to that release beyond the propane hedge? Why arent Companies like yours really sitting at sweet spot for the next couple of quarters until the customers can bang down pricing? Bob of I all I can assure you that we are everything we can do to aggressively hold on the value everywhere in this raw material environment.
The story is product-by-product I can give you a different story where we are very strong a lot of our portfolio frankly just is an subject to this raw material tailwind its just very steady very nice solid margin businesses our whole cellulose ester and is just is in part of this dynamic right now.
And so you put that aside and say lets focus on volume growth -- in delivering value.
In the places where you got benzene Para xylene parts of advanced materials heat transfer fluids and PPD things like that where we got some raw material tailwind some of that some are commodity oriented you are going to pass the price on pretty fast and you got formula contracts in place.
And other places we are going to hold on to as much of that value as we can and there is the dynamics are different.
And then olefins its a same story.
Some of its commodity where its going to pass on quickly you can see where the prices are going in some of the SFI products and the ISIS daily report.
But other places are holding on to.
So our guidance includes holding on to modest amount of that value through the year to offset the currency and propane hedge headwinds.
So get us to where we are guiding right now if we do better in holding on that value which is certainly our goal.
That will be upside.
But we dont want to get ahead of ourselves until we see how successful we are after the first quarter.
And do you have concerns settling those hedges just to remove the stigma going forward and people will capitalize that? Whether its cash flow heads and we dont get in the habit of trying to reposition them constantly but we do evaluate that but if you look at the opportunity right now it looks like ways more likely to go up than down.
I think quite honestly even if we settle them from a cash basis the earnings implication will still flow through as a cash flow hedges over the next couple of years.
And our last question will come from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Mark you talked about Saflex the interesting business doing pretty well in 14 can you talk about the growth potential in 15 and is that a business that could really benefit from the raw materials as you hold pricing? Great question Mike.
The interlayers business is great business in particular the premium products Acoustics and heads-up displays both high margin very high growth double-digits and expected to continue from a volume point of view into 2015 and beyond.
OEM auto builders are switching not just windshields acoustics but side lamps et cetera for both acoustic and light weighting purposes so it's just a great growth trend and weve got some great next generation products coming out down the pipe to make that value proposition even better over the next couple of years.
on the pricing side you're absolutely right premium products you dont have to give a lot of the drill benefit back so that will also be some tailwind for that business across all portfolio those also have a lot of our business area annual contracts like fibers where we sort of get locked in and so if you have headwinds like we did last year and then prices going up that hurts and this year we expect to have some tailwind.
And you maintained your EPS accretion for Taminco that you had previously -- is the integration synergy potential about the same in that number is it better how is that coming along? First of all Id say the integration efforts have gone up to a great start across many fronts great feedback from customer suppliers and were really thankful to have the talent thats come over from Taminco to help us manage these businesses.
As you look at the synergies themselves we still feel were on target to a 5% synergy if you recall those 5% synergies are mostly cost synergies in the form of operational synergies supply chain optimization et cetera.
Those will take a little longer than some of the synergies that weve captured from other acquisition such as Solutia.
So I still feel good about getting these majority of these 5% over the next two years we get just a portion of that in 2015 maybe little less than I was thinking little while ago but well get the majority of those cost synergies in 2016 and then well get a little bit beyond that plus the business and revenue synergies will kick in there.
Thank you again everyone for joining us this morning.
A web replay and a replay and downloadable MP3 format will be available on our Web site later this morning.
Thanks again and have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Please stand by we're about to begin.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations</strong> Okay.
Thank you Mara and good morning everyone and thanks very much for joining us.
On the call with me today are Mark Costa Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Executive Vice President and CFO; and Louis Reavis Manager of Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover two items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual events or results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's first quarter 2015 financial results news release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-Q filed for 2014 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for first quarter 2015.
Second earnings per share operating earnings and EBITDA referenced in this presentation exclude certain non-core or non-recurring costs charges and gains.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and other associated disclosures including a description of excluded items are available in the first quarter 2015 financial results news release and in the Appendix to the slides that accompany our remarks this morning both of which can be found on our website www.eastman.com in the Investor Section.
Projections of future earnings in the presentation also exclude such items as described in the first quarter financial results news release.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Good morning everyone.
It's a beautiful day in Kingsport.
We're putting another tough winter behind us and we can see everything blooming.
I'll start on page three.
We had a strong start to the year with our first quarter results.
We've made solid progress in executing our strategy to become the leading specialty chemical company.
This progress is the result of a number of actions we have taken to upgrade the quality of our portfolio.
Today we have a portfolio of world-class technology platforms we are leveraging to be a market leader an innovation leader and a cost leader.
In our first quarter EPS increased 14% year-over-year and our first quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was 24% which ranks in the top quartile among our chemical peers.
We did a great job of holding on to value for the first-quarter as we increased our operating margin by 120 basis points to almost 18%.
This also reflects our continued ability to upgrade the quality of our product mix by growing high-margin specialty product lines.
We're also doing a good job of creating value in both earnings and cash flow from our acquisitions including Taminco and Commonwealth.
Disciplined cost management has also been a focus and we're doing an excellent job as we hold costs flat via productivity efforts while at the same time shifting more resources to our innovation efforts.
Our SGA as a percentage of sales is in the lower quartile of our peers which is a function of our scale and integration and the great discipline of our employees.
We've also made good progress in reducing manufacturing costs.
Productivity is in the DNA of Eastman.
Beyond the numbers we've also been a recipient of numerous awards over the past several months that highlight many of the qualities our stakeholders have come to expect from Eastman.
We are  for the second consecutive year we're the Glassdoor Employees' Choice Award honoring the best places to work.
What I value most about this award is that it's based solely on the input of employees.
We were also recognized for outstanding corporate ethics and corporate responsibility with awards from both Ethisphere and Corporate Responsibility Magazine.
And we are recognized by the EPA as an ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Partner of the Year becoming the only chemical company to have received this recognition for four consecutive years.
Our excellent first quarter results and the recognition we are receiving are a direct result from the great work being done by all of our Eastman employees.
I'll now move to slide four.
I want to emphasize the great progress we're making in delivering strong growth in our innovative specialty products which is a key driver of earnings growth this year and in the long term.
At our Investor Day we described that a key element of our strategy was improving our product mix by growing our high-margin specialty products and by not growing or investing in our commodities a strategy that is differentiated from many of our peers.
We're very much on track with this strategy.
For this year we expect strong growth in a number of products across advanced materials additives and functional products and adhesives and plasticizers.
We have several growth programs delivering results now.
For example we expect record volumes in Saflex window interlayers this year driven by auto market adoption of laminated glass in side windows and a much higher use of acoustics.
We had strong growth in North America and China performance films including our new paint protection film from our Commonwealth acquisition.
High growth in our tackifying resins in tires as a performance additive to improve traction and high growth in our differentiated hydrogenated tackifying resins especially in hygiene markets.
We also see another wave of specialty product growth coming.
For example new differentiated polyesters for a wide range of coatings and AFP leveraging our proprietary monomer that has enabled our Tritan success in thermoplastics.
Next generation of Crystex that will enable a 20% to 30% improvement in our costs and a more differentiated product set and microfibers in both non-woven and woven applications.
Bottom line we are walking the talk to transform our portfolio to a set of high-quality specialty businesses.
On slide five we have provided an update on the Taminco acquisition as this is the first quarter results as part of Eastman.
I'm pleased with the solid performance of this business that was in line with our expectations.
Volume was driven by good growth in the home and personal care and water treatment markets as well as the benefit of the Taminco formic acid acquisition which demonstrates the diversity of markets in which our Taminco businesses participate.
In our high-margin crop protection business which goes into perishable high-value fruit vegetables and flowers we realized a stronger-than-expected performance in Europe and North America.
And functional amines which go into herbicides for row crops we saw some decline in demand in the first quarter as expected.
And sequentially we're seeing improved demand across a number of fronts.
We expect the overall Taminco margins to remain stable due to the quality of their market positions and high level of cost pass-through contracts.
On synergies we remain on track.
We're seeing good opportunities in procurement operational capabilities and supply chain optimization and are aggressively working these.
Although we are still in early days we've already had some operational improvement successes in combining Eastman's deep fundamental operational expertise from our large integrated sites with Taminco's amine manufacturing expertise resulting in higher capacity utilization rates in several Taminco sites.
We're also very encouraged about Taminco's product development pipeline and see opportunities to help them accelerate their success similar to what we have done at the solution businesses.
We continue to expect synergies of approximately $60 million over the next couple of years.
One of the key elements of a successful acquisition is retention of key talent and we're doing very well in this area.
I've been very pleased with the engagement of the Taminco team in the success of the combination of Eastman and Taminco.
On a full-year basis we expect volume growth to be greater than GDP for all of Taminco and earnings accretion on track with our expectations of greater than $0.35 per share in 2015 and greater than $0.60 per share in 2016.
Given the strategic fit of Taminco and Eastman the consistency of their earnings growth in a variety of business climates and the strength of their cash flow we remain very pleased to have Taminco as part of the Eastman portfolio.
Now I'll turn it over to Curt to discuss the corporate and segment results.
Okay.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll start with our first quarter results on slide six.
Overall sales revenue increased primarily due to revenue from the businesses we acquired in 2014.
This was partially offset by lower selling prices which largely reflected lower raw material and energy costs and to a lesser extent foreign exchange rates.
Our operating earnings increased as we largely were able to hold on to value in the quarter reflecting the specialty and special position nature of a significant portion of our portfolio.
Earnings from acquired businesses were also key contributors.
These were partially offset by lower earnings in our fiber segment an unfavorable shift in foreign exchange rates and propane hedges that we discussed previously.
As Mark mentioned our operating margin increased by 120 basis points which is an excellent result despite difficult business conditions.
Earnings per share increased 14% year-over-year primarily reflecting higher earnings and lower share count; overall a very strong quarter where we delivered earnings growth.
Moving next to the segment results starting with Additives &amp; Functional Products on slide seven.
Revenue increased due to sales of the acquired Taminco businesses partially offset by lower selling prices due to lower raw material and energy costs.
Operating earnings increased due to earnings from acquired businesses partially offset by the impact of currency and propane hedges.
As we look at second quarter we expect strong volume growth sequentially due to normal seasonality and improving building and construction market particularly in the U.S.
and improving demand for tires as they're anticipated to grow particularly in Europe and North America.
We also expect solid growth for the full year especially in our transportation building and construction and personal care markets.
We therefore continue to expect strong full-year earnings growth for Additives &amp; Functional Products due to earnings from acquired businesses with the earnings in heritage Eastman businesses relatively flat as solid volume growth offsets the currency effects and hedges.
Next is Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers on slide eight.
Sales revenue declined 7% primarily driven by currency and slightly lower selling prices due to lower raw material costs.
Operating earnings increased primarily in adhesives resins as an increase in spread was partially offset by currency.
Operating margins for the quarter were 17% up 300 basis points year-over-year.
For full year 2015 we are expecting to continue to make progress improving our product mix.
We expect strong growth in hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins as the hygiene market grows in Asia-Pacific and we see solid growth in the packaging market.
We are also seeing continued good adoption of non-phthalate plasticizers.
We are also expecting the adhesives resins market to remain tight due to the lack of available raw materials such as piperylene.
Offsetting some of these benefits will be the impact of currency and volatile oil prices.
Taken together we expect Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers will deliver strong earnings growth for the year.
Now to Advanced Materials on slide nine which delivered a very solid quarter.
Sales revenue declined somewhat as sales from the acquired performance film business were more than offset by currency and lower selling prices particularly for copolyesters reflecting lower raw material and energy costs.
Earnings increased primarily due to earnings from the acquired Commonwealth business an excellent bolt-on acquisition.
These earnings were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency.
Looking at the full year we continue to expect strong results from Advanced Materials as they make progress on our strategy for this business of volume growth mix improvement and fixed cost leverage.
Sequentially we expect volume will increase as destocking by our copolyester customers in the beginning of the first quarter has subsided.
We had strong volumes in March and that has continued into April.
Interlayer volumes are picking up as OEM auto builds remain solid.
Acoustic growth continues and the overall building and construction market in Europe is stabilizing.
And as a result we expect interlayers volumes in 2015 will be at record levels.
And film volumes are picking up sequentially as we have seen strong growth in North America and Asia from normal seasonality and share gains and as the destocking we have seen in Southeast Asia seems to be behind us.
As a result for the year we expect good volume growth.
One thing I do want to mention though that affects this business this core volume was somewhat offset by an ethyl acetate product that is a low margin product line that was previously sold in both AFP and Advanced Materials in 2014.
Going forward this product line will be sold solely by Additives &amp; Functional Products.
In addition to the good volume growth we expect continued mix improvement as high margin product lines such as Tritan copolyester acoustic interlayers and Visualize our film product used in displays for smartphones deliver strong growth.
And as we continue to fill out existing capacity we benefit from fixed cost leverage.
We expect all these factors will result in strong earnings growth for Advanced Materials in 2015 offset in part by the impact of currency.
Now to Fibers on slide 10.
Performance in this segment is about as expected.
In the quarter sales revenue declined year-over-year primarily due to lower acetate tow and acetyl intermediate sales volume.
We attribute this to customer inventory destocking which we discussed back in January.
Earnings declined due to lower volume and I would add that the operating margin was about 32% in the quarter down slightly from year-ago levels.
As we look at full-year 2015 we are pretty much on track with our previous guidance.
Based on conversations with customers about their plans and expectations we continue to expect that the inventory destocking will be more pronounced in the first half of the year and tow demand will improve in the second half of the year.
And we are benefiting from lower raw material and energy costs particularly for wood pulp.
Regarding our UK facility as previously announced we discontinued production and expect site closure will be completed in the third quarter.
As a result we continue to expect earnings will be down between $40 million and $60 million for the year albeit probably closer to the $60 million sitting here today.
And we expect to see earnings of this segment improve as we progress through the year.
I'll finish up the segment review with Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates on slide 11.
During the first quarter we did a great job of holding on to value.
Sales revenue increased due to the sales of acquired businesses partially offset by lower selling prices particularly for olefin-based intermediates.
Operating earnings increased due to improved spreads and earnings from acquired businesses partially offset by propane hedges.
Looking at the full year we have a number of factors impacting results.
We expect to continue to benefit from strong volume growth and earnings in the acquired businesses.
Sales volume for the heritage Eastman business is expected to be about flat as solid end market demand growth is being offset by increasing internal consumption of intermediates for both backward integration with Taminco businesses and growth in heritage Eastman businesses and lower polymer intermediates volumes.
And we are projecting lower propylene and ethylene prices for the remainder of the year as experienced in April and expect lower prices to continue for the rest of the year negatively impacting olefin margins.
We also expect the impact of propane hedges to be more significant for this segment for the balance of the year as the cost of the hedge flows through inventories.
We therefore expect overall earnings in 2015 to be lower than 2014 earnings.
On slide 12 I'll transition to an overview of our cash flow and other financial highlights.
We continue to do an excellent job of generating cash with the first quarter operating cash flow of $91 million in which is typically our seasonally lowest quarter.
Net earnings were solid and our normal beginning-of-the-year working capital build was tempered somewhat by lower raw material and energy costs.
Free cash flow was negative $34 million for the quarter.
Capital expenditures totaled $125 million and we are on track for full-year capital expenditures of between $700 million and $725 million.
And our first quarter dividend was $60 million.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 27%.
We continue to expect our full-year tax rate will be between 26% and 27% reflecting the continued benefits of our improved business operations.
We continue to do what we can to be at the lower end of that range.
As a whole I am pleased with the earnings and cash flow performance to start the year.
There's good things happening at Eastman Chemical and I thank everyone that's involved in making it happen.
With that I'll turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Curt.
I'll close on slide 13 with comments on our full year 2015 outlook and I'm quite happy to say that our outlook has improved due to the actions we have taken.
We continue to have strong growth drivers across the company.
This starts with our portfolio of specialty businesses that leverage our world-class technology platforms.
These specialty businesses are positioned to grow this year.
We will benefit from growth in a diverse set of end markets including transportation building and construction consumables and food feed and ag.
We also expect high growth from some of our most innovative high-margin specialty growth programs improving our mix.
We will benefit from low oil in many of our specialty and special position businesses where pricing is more determined on the functionality and value to customers and you can see that in our first quarter results.
And we expect it will continue for the remainder of the year.
We've done an excellent job in managing costs over the years and I expect this to continue.
And as I've mentioned we expect significant accretion from the businesses we acquired in 2014.
We're all about focus and execution this year and driving value for organic growth and creating value through the integration of our highly accretive acquisitions.
Of course we also have some short-term headwinds and uncertainties in the global economy volatile oil and the strengthening dollar.
Given our excellent start to the year expectations for solid growth in our specialty businesses earnings from the recently acquired businesses and continued cost discipline we are now well positioned to deliver our sixth consecutive year of earnings growth in 2015 something only a very small percentage of S&amp;P 500 companies have been able to do in the last 10 years.
Lastly these solid earnings are translating to strong free cash flow generation.
We now expect to generate approximately $900 million of free cash flow at the top end of the guidance we gave you in January which represents a free cash flow yield of approximately 8%.
This puts us in a great position to continue to pay a strong dividend invest in growth through capital expenditures and achieve the appropriate level of deleveraging.
I'm very excited about our performance so far this year our expectations for the full year and for what we can deliver over the coming years.
With that I'll turn it over to Greg.
Investor Relations</strong> All right.
Thanks Mark.
We have a lot of people on the line this morning and we'd like to get to as many questions as possible.
So I ask everybody that is on the line to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question.
With that Mara we're ready for questions.
Thank you Mr.
Riddle.
And our first question comes from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
Mark very strong earnings in SFI.
Can you help us think about the first how much did the spread contribute in Q1 versus Q4? And thinking about Q2 versus Q1 how much will this spread hurt you sequentially in Q2 versus Q1? Thanks David.
Certainly spread was a factor in the growth in Q1 relative to Q4.
As Curt mentioned we saw good discipline in holding on to prices as raw materials came down and the inventory turns are quite fast in that business and we were able to sort of improve our spread and as also Curt mentioned that the hedge which predominantly goes into SFI flows through COGS.
You don't see much of that hit in the first quarter as that will increase into the second quarter and the hedge will really be the big driver in compressing some of the margins on first quarter to second quarter.
Yeah.
If I could add Mark on top of that.
So as I mentioned in SFI you are seeing that margin compression in April that that will be a good  that will be felt mostly in this segment plus that impact of the hedges.
And quite honestly if I think about just the shaping of the year as well that's going to impact the kind of the quarters as they progress a little differently than what you've seen in the past.
So I think our full year is going to be more balanced first half of the year second half of the year.
And second quarter is really going to be probably one of the more challenging quarters we have on a year-over-year comparable basis in part due to that SFI factor we discussed as well as the timing of tow demand.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Very helpful.
And just on Fibers Mark.
When do you think the destocking will end? And do you think we'll see normalized demand at any point during the back half of the year? And what is that normalized demand in your view? Sure.
So we do certainly think that destocking will abate in the first half of the year and things will improve in the second half.
And the way I think about this Dave is primary demand story hasn't changed at all really in the last 12 months.
So what we see is outside of China demand for cigarettes is trending as it always has.
In China the primary demand is expected to be flat to slightly up but let's call it flattish.
So the primary demand situation is unchanged.
What's really going on this year is what's the story in tow demand and there are really three components of that.
The first is the Chinese National Tobacco Company has added capacity in joint ventures with us last year and Daicel this year.
And that removes a certain amount of demand available to the tow suppliers because if you're backward integrated you're going to run your assets full.
So there's a certain chunk of market that just leaves the market.
Then the rest of it is a destocking story and it's two different stories.
So in China CNTC produces cigarettes and collects tax revenue at the production level.
And over 2013 2014 they got ahead of themselves in production relative to primary demand and built up more inventory than they needed.
And they finally took actions to sort of correct that inventory which is what you're seeing in the first half of this year.
And they continue to tell us that that should clear itself the first half of the year and that's all that they were able to go on but it makes sense.
With the multinationals they also are doing some destocking around the globe for a different reason.
Capacity utilization was incredibly tight in the 2010 to 2013 timeframe.
And so they were concerned about making sure they had safety stock in place because they never want to run out of filter tow because it's a very small percentage of their total cost.
And so they were carrying excess inventory.
As the Chinese added capacity that made the capacity utilization a little bit looser.
They felt less at risk at that.
And there was also a significant large customer changing out their product line and then destocking in the first half of the year and restocking for their new product line in the second half of the year.
So all of that combines to make the destocking story make sense to us.
I would also note that with all of our large customers we have annual contracts on both price and volume.
And they generally honor those contracts and that also would confirm a recovering demand in the back half the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
We move now to P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey Mark.
You've talked about demand growth in tires.
That seems like a change in tone from your last quarter especially in Europe.
So can you just talk about what you're seeing in the tire demand globally? Sure.
Tire demand globally is very moderate in its growth rate if you look at what our customers like Michelin and others are saying in the marketplace.
But there's really two stories inside that.
Europe and North America tire growth is actually quite solid and getting better year-over-year.
The issue is China.
And the Chinese are struggling through two things and reducing tire production right now to destock their situation because the tariffs in the U.S.
have pushed the sales back out of the U.S.
towards China or other markets.
And they've massively overbuilt higher production capacity in China and the economy is clearly slowing down especially commercial activity in China where we're leveraged with Crystex.
And that's resulted in some decline in demand there in the first quarter.
But we have seen a strong improvement in demand going into the second quarter from the first.
But overall I'd say the tire market is going to have very modest growth globally when you add it all together.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then in SFI as propylene prices came down can you talk about what you're seeing in the (26:10) pricing in the (26:12)? And you also you talked about  in earlier question you talked about propane to propylene spread sort of hinted at that.
Can you talk about propylene to delivery spread? Thank you.
Sure.
On the market price situation what we see is  we saw a fairly large drop in propylene prices in April.
And the more commoditized products that we have are going to follow that down.
The specialties are going to hold on to value as best as they can with that change in the marketplace conditions.
And I think that's all playing out in the way you would expect.
Fortunately commodities are a very small percentage of our total earnings portfolio.
But it's the dynamic that's going on right now.
I'm going to let Curt answer the olefins spread hedge question.
Sure.
And maybe the best way to think about this P.J.
let me just kind of give update on that $0.40 to $0.60 impact we talked about on olefins.
And so it's important when we talk about producing versus buying olefins let me highlight a couple of things.
First the make-up of our olefin needs are changing as we grow.
So for example now we produce about 55% of the propylene we need and we now purchase the rest.
So that's impacting some of this.
The benefits of producing versus purchasing olefins we do expect to be volatile.
And you see that as it goes through this April.
And so as we see these decline in ethylene and propylene prices.
So that's going to be a challenge a little bit more of a challenge than we originally anticipated.
On our propane hedges we put in place last year that's an additional headwind for us where we've kind of hedged about two-thirds of our propane purchases in 2015 and just over 50% in 2016.
So when I think about the propane hedges themselves there has been no material change in the expected impact of these hedges on the 2015 results.
So a lot of it is just right now coming down to those cracking spreads.
Finally we have though taken a variety of actions trying to mitigate these margin pressures including improved operations and a shift to a more advantaged feedstock mix.
I think is probably around 70% propane today.
So putting it all together with the current market conditions we're probably now at the high end of that $0.40 to $0.60 range we provided early in the year.
As a reminder though that impact does not include the impact of pricings  prices of our derivatives or changes in other raw materials and so we try to factor those into our overall corporate guidance.
But again the business teams are doing a great job trying to hold on to value and you see that being done in our first quarter results.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you very much.
We move now to Vincent Andrews Morgan Stanley.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Could you just  you said tow was going to be probably at the low end of your operating profit forecast for the year in terms of the impact year-over-year.
Why is that? Is that just because the volume is going to come in a little worse than you thought or was there a difference on price or what's the dynamic? Good morning Vince.
Yeah.
There are two parts of it both volume-related.
So the  as the final contract settled there was a slight drop in tow demand when we added it all together.
The other part was we sell acetyl intermediates into our joint venture with Solvay for producing product.
And they also reduced their demand need on that joint venture so we had lower acetyl intermediate sales.
Okay.
And on Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers it seems like some of the issues that you were having last year have settled out.
So what's the update there? Adhesives &amp; Plasticizer is a great story improvement in the industry structure.
What's happened in Adhesives is the volumes have continued in the market to grow quite solidly in hygiene hot melt adhesive packaging so strong growth in the market.
As we continue to move to a lighter feedstock slates the amount of raw materials available for hydrocarbon resins has become more limited and you've got a tightening market situation that's given us a lot of value and pricing power in the marketplace.
I would also note that the rosin question that we've discussed in the past is also quite stable.
Prices in rosins are low and availability is sort of typical this year and the low prices of rosins this year would suggest that those won't significantly increase into next year either.
So we see a nice stable situation there in adhesives.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much.
We move next to Frank Mitsch Wells Fargo Securities.
Hey good morning and nice start to the year.
I wanted to follow up on some of the comments Curt made on the Taminco acquisition.
I think when you were talking about the functional amines in the ag business you saw sequential improvement.
Now of course we'd expect sequential improvement in Q2 but were you also referring to Q1? Did you see sequential improvement in that business there? And also just in general it sounded to me that the tone was a bit more positive on Taminco on this call and if you could talk about what you're seeing now that you've owned it for a little bit longer that'd be great.
We view Taminco as a great acquisition great add to the portfolio very much on track in delivering the results and doing a great job in performing including finding ways to offset their own FX headwinds.
On the specific ag question Frank the ag demand on a year-over-year basis is the way I'd think about it came off a bit when it comes to the functional amines going into sort of the row crop herbicides consistent with what you might expect in the marketplace.
But we've seen strong indications and improvements of volume sequentially from the first quarter into the second quarter.
In particular the customers we serve they're doing a bit better this year than last year.
We also saw burn-downs start this year which did not occur last year so some additional demand as a result of that.
As we all know the winter ag season last year was a pretty tough comp.
So things are going really well there on the row crop.
I'd also remind everyone that the ag business related to row crops is only about 10% of the total revenue of Taminco.
So while we pay attention to it it's not a significant part of the portfolio.
One of the great things about Taminco like Eastman is it has a very diverse set of end markets.
And then the other part is crop protection is doing better than expected.
The nice thing about perishable products is you can't build up inventory and those crop products are having a good demand this year.
That's great because I do know that some of the other crop protection chemical companies are not as optimistic on the early part of the year here so that's good to hear from your perspective.
And in terms of the $900 million of free cash flow can you talk about your priorities for that money? Sure.
All right.
Capital allocation is always a critical and important debate we have among ourselves with our board and we are committed to the approach we've always taken.
So when I think about capital allocation the priority starts with great attractive organic growth opportunities that are important in leveraging our world-scale platforms and allow us grow and sustain the performance of those platforms.
So organic is always going to take a priority assuming they have attractive returns.
We're fortunate that our operating cash flow is so strong that we can meet those needs and still have quite a bit of free cash flow.
We have one of the best yields in the industry.
So there is a fair question which is what do you do with all that free cash flow.
And we'll continue to have a disciplined and balanced approach to that in looking at both acquisitions and returning cash to shareholders and making sure we do which creates the most value for our shareholders at that time from a long-term value creation point of view.
If I could Frank if you look at our 2015 nothing has changed in our commitment though we also have to take a fair bit of that free cash flow and complete the deleveraging we've committed to.
Yeah.
My comments were long term.
Yes.
Understood.
So debt paydown is probably the near-term priority and then Curt's comments are more longer term.
Other way around.
So Curt just made the short term comment about delevering and I made the long term comment there  the long-term capital allocation philosophy.
Got you.
Thank you.
For our next question we go to Kevin McCarthy Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yes.
Good morning.
Mark I was wondering if you could provide an update on Crystex.
I think you were planning to take some capacity offline in France expand in Malaysia and retrofit technology at some sites.
Can you update us on where you stand in that evolution? Sure Kevin.
We're very much on track with our Crystex strategy continue to be very excited about this new technology we developed.
As you mentioned we shut the Ste business down last year to take out some fixed cost.
And the reason we could do that is we have done such a great job in working with the Crystex manufacturing guys combined with our operational experts at our large integrated sites we found ways to improve the performance of the existing plants so that out of six plants we're producing much more than we ever could in seven plants.
And that's why we could shut Ste down which is just a great operational synergy story.
The new technology will be both retrofits which we've already started in our Germany plant.
And then of course we're gearing up to start construction of our Kuantan plant to double capacity in that site.
So the overall Crystex story is moving along quite nicely.
I'd also mention that while the overall market is not growing that fast in tires we're having great success with some of our new growth products that we're selling into tires and growing those quite fast.
So our tackifying resins their performance added for traction are seeing significant growth this year over last year.
So the overall portfolio has ways to grow beyond just the primary end market.
And a second question if I may.
How would you describe activity or lack thereof as it relates to your efforts to monetize crackers at Longview? And then second piece if I may do you have any propane hedges in place for 2017? Kevin this is Curt.
On the  nothing new to report on our efforts around our olefins in Texas.
We will continue to evaluate options with excess ethylene and/or our crackers in normal course.
On the propane we do have some hedges going into 2017 but they're moderate compared to what I described in 2015 and 2016.
Thank you very much.
We'll move now to James Sheehan at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Could you please elaborate on some of the improving business trends that you're seeing in Europe? Sure.
The businesses are actually improving quite nicely in Europe and the overall economy is obviously sluggish but improving from a GDP point of view.
But in markets like transportation we're seeing nice recovery in volumes.
Even in building and construction there's some improvements that we're starting to see.
So Europe is expected to be sort of a nice story for us this year.
And a follow-up on your comments on the tire market could you just differentiate between what you're seeing on the passenger side versus truck tires? Sure.
Passenger tires are doing sort of reasonably well across the globe.
Truck tires are doing well in North America slow in Europe and challenged in China at the moment because of the economic deceleration going on in China.
That's a short-term comment why they're destocking we expect that to sort of improve as we go into the year.
Thank you.
We'll move now to John Roberts UBS.
Good morning.
You mentioned you don't have any propane hedging beyond next year.
What's the go-forward strategy around propane? Do you have any opinion on whether it's going to be more volatile less volatile and how do you intend to manage that? From a hedging point of view we're continuing to review our hedging strategy and decide what's the most appropriate thing to do.
Obviously there's a tremendous amount of volatility today in the market around where oil is going to go and the associated raw materials from oil.
So we're making sure that we think about it carefully and step forward carefully.
It doesn't sound like you have a strategy.
Oh we have a strategy of making sure that we protect our volatility in our earnings but we're trying to understand what the structural implications are to the change in the marketplaces because clearly no one saw oil going from $100 to $50 including us.
And when that kind of structural change happens in the marketplace it's appropriate to step back and rethink your strategy and make sure what you're doing is appropriate.
And is the dispute with Westlake completely resolved at this point? This is Curt.
There's nothing new to update on Westlake.
But there was a lingering piece there.
So that's unresolved still? I have nothing new to report.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Nice start to the year.
When you think about Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates you did the operating income of $102 million versus $64 million last year.
Is the improvement primarily all Taminco and if I did the math that would suggest that given the sales and margins really expanded versus last year and I'm just curious if that math works and how much of the improvement would have been sort of the pricing power over raw materials? Well again the benefit is partially the acquisitions.
If you recall we said Taminco if you think about specialty amines and crop protection going to additives &amp; Functional Products and the functional amines going to SFI it was about 75% going to AFP 25% going to SFI.
So that gives you some way to think about the order of magnitude for the Taminco.
And yes as Mark mentioned the margins did expand in the first quarter but as we talked about we think that margin expansion is going to come off in the second quarter for SFI in part because of the decline in propylene and ethylene margins and in part because of the flow of the hedge.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then Mark I think you described AFP to be up strong Adhesives to be up strong Advanced Materials to be up strong and amino fibers and your thoughts on Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates.
And given that the first quarter EPS growth was double digits is that the type of growth you could do every quarter? Is there a little bit of kind of changes because of the hedges and I just want better understand kind of the growth potential as the quarters unfold this year for EPS growth.
Mike great question.
I've been waiting for it.
Yeah.
We see a great opportunity for us to continue delivering earnings growth this year over last year as well as into 2016.
And I think the first quarter is great evidence about the quality of our specialty portfolio and the transitions we've been making to be more of a specialty company.
When you look at the earnings performance in the first quarter it was really quite good in our specialty businesses we held on to value and we're quite disciplined in how we hold on to value in those businesses and we're able to offset the vast majority of the headwinds we had in currency and hedging.
And we did it without volume.
And there is an important point in that which is we were being disciplined and as a result customers held off on ordering waiting for the best price.
And then we saw when we got those all negotiated we saw price  volumes recover in the  Mark's timeframe into April.
It's also important to note when you think about that story that the COGS flow-through on specialty businesses is quite slow.
Three to six months versus commodities being in that sort of shorter one to two month range.
And therefore when you really look at the story of the specialty businesses in the first quarter it's quite good.
So as we go from that into the rest of the year what we see is continued strong improvement in volumes in those specialty businesses as we go into the first quarter  I mean sorry  into the second quarter and we expect volume growth to continue through the year.
In addition to those end markets delivering volume growth we also expect high growth of these high-margin products that we have that are selling especially in Advanced Materials that are giving us quite an earnings uplift within that volume growth.
So we feel good about that.
But of course you've always got some of the offsets we've mentioned the currency strengthened the propylene and ethylene prices are lower today than what we expected in January.
And so there's a netting effect of all that.
But if you took current market conditions that we have today associated with oil currency et cetera and looked forward you would  we feel very confident that we're going to deliver earnings growth year-over-year.
And as I think about it you know this is not a 2015 story.
It's a 2016 story too.
So you've got all these strong growth drivers that continue into 2016.
You've got oil hopefully one day showing up as an economic stimulus further improving demand and then you've got the headwinds that we have this year that are more short-term headwinds when you think about 2016 and not likely to repeat.
So hedge starts coming off oil prices likely to be higher Fibers demand is stable to better next year all give us additional room for earnings growth year-over-year.
And then of course I think that all of that is much stronger than some margins this year that we captured in particular on the first quarter that would be difficult to repeat next year with prices falling relative to rosins a small part of our portfolio that's commodity.
So I think our overall earnings story is very much intact on a year-over-year basis for 2015 as well as 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And now we go to Bob Koort Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
This is Ryan Berney on for Bob.
Just had a question within the Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers business.
I was hoping you could maybe elaborate a little bit more on kind of the lower selling prices that you're seeing in plasticizers.
It seems like maybe that piece of the business overwhelmed a little bit of the positive you're getting from the adhesives side.
I was hoping you could provide a little more color there.
Sure.
It's a story related to oil.
So raw material prices dropped dramatically associated with oil and plasticizers like other olefins.
And so what you're seeing is prices come down with those raw materials in the plasticizers side of that business.
There's also continued competitive pressure in that business.
As Asians have been trying to reposition towards North America Europe is obviously not attractive for them on a relative currency basis for some of them as well as looking to place that product because economic growth in China has not been very good.
And to elaborate on that economic growth in China kind of just based on what you're seeing in your businesses do you expect the kind of deceleration we've seen in the early part of the year to accelerate from where we are meaning the pace of the slowdown to speed up so to speak for the remainder of the year? That would be the big question for the world about what is China economy going to do.
My personal view is they're not growing at 7% GDP not close to it and there are certainly lots of articles out there right now talking about that.
How it accelerates or decelerates from where it is today is a question beyond my pay grade.
But I do think that the important part for us is our volume story is actually quite strong in plasticizers.
While we've had some headwinds on margin which will start to abate this year the volume story about our non-phthalates is great.
We are seeing very strong growth in non-phthalates.
We're primarily focused on selling these products in North America where we have the best netback and we recently had another factor come in to drive non-phthalate change where Home Depot has now told all of its suppliers that it doesn't want phthalates in its flooring.
So the pressure to sort of switch to non-phthalates just keeps on increasing.
So we feel good about this business long term.
It's going to have very strong growth.
There is lots of addressable market left to penetrate in the switch from phthalate to non-phthalate.
We just need to get this margin pressure situation to clear and then that will then turn into earnings growth.
Great.
Thank you very much.
We go now to Jeff Zekauskas JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Hi.
In your earlier remarks I think you said that your propane was hedged by 50% in 2016.
My recollection was that in the old days it was maybe hedged to 90%.
So did you alter your hedged positions or were there various steps that you've taken to change your exposure or your purchases in propane for next year? So Jeff this is Curt.
A couple of perspectives.
First of all there's been no change to our propane hedging program as we defined it last year.
So you know we moved from that sort of a short-term hedging program to a multiyear hedging program.
So there's been no change there.
We had talked in the past about being substantially hedged in 2015 and 2016.
I just wanted to provide some more clarity for people who don't understand what that order of magnitude is.
So it was about two-thirds in 2015 and just over half in 2016.
Okay.
But Jeff part of that story is we've taken actions to improve our total production rate of olefins.
So we're improving the quality of how we're running our crackers.
We've shifted our mix towards more propane from ethane because propane currently is quite advantaged as you know.
So there are some actions we've taken.
But we also were concerned that people were over interpreting our substantial comment I want to make sure people knew where our hedge positions were.
Okay.
And then for my follow-up I remember that Taminco had a aircraft de-icing business that was quite depressed last year because of good weather.
And so I would imagine that that might have helped the Taminco earnings overall and there are some synergies.
Order of magnitude is Taminco EBITDA up $15 million or $20 million or $12 million? Can you size it? This is Curt Jeff.
First of all on your de-icing the de-icing was up year-over-year.
That was a contributing factor.
There are some offsets to it within a diversified portfolio have like within our specialty amines business and that's the formic acid aspect of it there.
On the EBITDA for Taminco I'd characterize it  as we look at it right now I think if you take all the factors the EBITDA of Taminco will be equal or slightly above where they were last year.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Jeff...
Yeah? Jeff that includes the FX effect too.
Oh an FX effect too.
Okay.
Great.
They're facing that FX headwind.
So they're helping offset some of that in that comment.
Our next question comes from Laurence Alexander at Jefferies.
Hi guys.
This is Dan Rizzo in for Laurence.
Just in regards to the acetate tow you say the destocking is going to continue through the second half of the year I mean until the end of  until next  the second half of this year.
Do you mean it's going to spike in this quarter or is it like moderating as you go forward or is it  just sequentially from the first quarter to the second is it kind of the same or is it getting better or worse and then getting better? Just a little more color.
If I could let me just clarify.
I think you're referring to my comment about second quarter being more of a challenge year-over-year and that's a truly  part of the factor is this tow demand on a year-over-year comparison basis.
So as you think about overall tow demand just so we're clear the destocking is occurring in the first half of the year.
We expect recovery in demand in the second half of the year as that destocking abates.
In regards to the second quarter versus the first quarter I would describe the volume as similar to maybe a little bit better on a sequential basis from first quarter to second quarter.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just given all the moves you made in the past year so I mean what's the M&amp;A pipeline look like? Are you guys kind of done for a while or do you still see a lot of opportunities out there? Right now we are very much focused on execution.
We have done some great acquisitions four of them last year.
We've got a tremendous portfolio of organic growth projects and we're all about delivering results right now and focusing on how we do all of that incredibly well.
That is and will continue to be our priority.
Thank you guys.
We go now to Aleksey Yefremov with Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
How would you characterize industry-wide operating rates in filter tow maybe currently and also after capacity cuts that you're undergoing and that your competitor has announced? And also could you comment on Eastman-specific operating rates in filter tow? So I'll comment on the industry side.
What we are seeing is as I mentioned we added some capacity and Daicel is adding some capacity with CNTC.
And fortunately what we're also seeing is that the three out of four tow suppliers in this industry are also rationalizing capacity right now that is high cost and not necessary and so we've taken our working Workington site down.
You've seen announcements from Celanese and Solvay about taking some capacity out.
When you add that all together and you look at different demand scenarios for 2016 it would imply industry utilization rates in the low 90%s range which is a nice stable place to be and importantly should indicate ability for us to maintain stable margins just like we've already done this year maintaining stable margins in the face of this destocking.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And also could you comment on your foreign exchange hedges? What is the magnitude of any potential benefit that you expect this year and also how could this progress into 2016? Thank you.
Well if you think about  this is Curt  the impact of the exchanges the strength in the dollar and for us it's specifically the euro we've talked about that change being a $0.25 to $0.30 headwind per share.
That's reflecting net of some of the hedges we have in place.
We've hedged roughly half of our currency.
As you see currency sitting there today around $1.10 $1.11 that impact is going to be a little greater than that $0.25 to $0.30 and that's what we're expecting in our outlook.
I'd say similarly we have a hedge going into next year that will help mitigate that just not to the same magnitude of 50% we had this year.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Our final question comes from Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Yeah.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
You've spoken a lot about the specialty aspect of your portfolio holding price and capturing value.
But your year-over-year price comparisons were down 6%.
So would you be able to parse the price realizations you had on the specialty and special position versus commodity? Sure.
I'll take part of this question and I wouldn't be surprised if Curt piles in.
So first of all when you look at the overall price performance of our company compared to our diversified peers we actually did a great job of holding price.
And I think that's a good proxy for the quality of our portfolio.
But no matter what you are specialty or commodity raw material prices came down considerably.
And some of our pricing especially in our core copolyesters was going to go follow raw materials downward to some extent.
And that's the price effect that we're feeling  so  in Advanced Materials and the same logic would apply to the olefin products in AFP and the plasticizers and in A&amp;P.
But the spreads did not compress.
And so I think that that portfolio in fact expanded in most cases.
But there's a limit you have to treat your customers with respect to make sure you pass on value to them too when the raw materials come down So I think that we did a nice job of finding appropriate balance with our customers for the value that we create for them and we will continue to do so going forward.
So it's also important to keep in mind that the raw material flow through issue being three to six months on the specialty.
So when you look at the margins you don't have that rapid flow through that you saw in SFI.
And this is Curt.
Just as you make your evaluation analysis you can see some of that in the pricing changes.
So you look at Additives &amp; Functional Products Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers Advanced Materials you see their prices only coming down 2% to 5% versus 16% in SFI.
So that's just some of the factors that Mark described.
I'd also remind people as they evaluate Additives &amp; Functional Products and SFI keep in mind as we bring the Taminco businesses into those that does have a weighting effect on the operating margins for those businesses.
So for Additives &amp; Functional Products they'll have a slightly lower operating margin now just because of the mix of Taminco versus the heritage Eastman businesses.
Thanks.
That's really helpful.
And then would you have an estimate  obviously you had a lot of new assets in the portfolio year-over-year.
Would you have an estimate of the total accretion from all these new businesses? I would say right now it's been factored in our guidance.
We look at all the moving parts and so from  as it relates to organic growth we factor that into that aspect.
From the acquisition standpoint we talked about greater than $0.35 accretion this year and greater than $0.60 accretion next year.
For Taminco.
Taminco.
So when you add them altogether it's more like $0.50.
Understood.
Sorry I meant for this quarter.
For the quarter? We're not breaking that out by quarter.
Taminco is...
Understood.
Its earnings profile is pretty constant during the course of the year.
So that's how I would think about it.
Investor Relations</span></strong> I mean the way you think about it Nils is they're on track on a corporate basis for that $0.50 or greater than $0.50 accretion on an annual basis.
So just think of it that way we're on track with that accretion expectation.
And then as you think about the benefits of the synergies that's probably weighted more towards the second half of the year.
Understood.
Thanks for the help.
Yes.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Riddle I'd like to turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Investor Relations</strong> Yeah.
Thanks Mara and thanks everyone for joining us this morning.
We'll have a Web replay and replay in downloadable MP3 format available on our website probably later this morning.
Thanks a lot and have a great day.
And that concludes our conference for today.
Again we thank everyone for joining us.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on the Eastman's website at www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thank you Christine and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Mark Costa Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Executive Vice President and CFO; and Louis Reavis Manager of Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover two items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual events or results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's second quarter 2015 financial results news release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-Q filed for first quarter 2015 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for second quarter 2015.
Second earnings per share operating earnings and EBITDA referenced in this presentation exclude certain non-core costs charges and gains.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of excluded items are available in the second quarter 2015 financial results news release and in the Appendix to these slides that accompany our remarks this morning both of which can be found on our website www.eastman.com in the Investor Section.
Projections of future earnings in the presentation also exclude such items as described in the second quarter financial results news release.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Ill start on Slide 3.
Ill begin with the strategic highlights for the quarter and the first half of 2015.
We had an outstanding second quarter results clearly demonstrating the strength of our portfolio specialty products and the benefits of our focus on execution.
Adjusted EPS in the second quarter was a record for any quarter and establishes a new level of earnings for the company and we set a record for the first half within a year as well.
When you consider the headwinds we are facing we have demonstrated the power of our strategy of aggressively transforming our portfolio towards specialties.
The value of innovation driving growth and improving our mix and the benefit of our advantage cost positions.
As we discussed in our first quarter call we expected strong growth in our high value innovative specialty products.
And now you can see that we deliver that strong growth from acoustic interlayers to our display products to Tritan copolyester and many others.
As the volume growth continues in these products we also improved our product mix contributing to our strong margins.
This shows the strength of our portfolio as we are able to hold under price relative to declining loss and more than offset the propane hedge and currency headwinds.
In addition to strong organic growth performance for Taminco continues to be solid and on track as the diversity of end markets and the strength of these business models enable us to navigate a difficult business environment.
We also remain very pleased with the progress on the integration and the achievement of synergies and I would add that our bolt-on acquisitions from 2014 are also performing very well.
The Commonwealth film business the aviation turbine oil business and Knowlton which is accelerating innovation in our microfibers business.
Cost management also remains an area of focus for us.
We continue to make good progress keeping cost relatively flat with strong productivity gains.
SG&amp;A and R&amp;D as a percentage of sales remains in the lower quartile of our peers reflecting our focus on costs our integration and our scale.
At the same time were increasing resources and spending on innovation programs.
And the cash engine continues to generate strong cash flow with a record $450 million of free cash flow in the second quarter.
When you look at the first half performance I want to emphasize that were delivering earnings growth through our specialties and our acquisitions.
This overall exceptional level of performance is a direct result of the talent focus and dedication of Eastman employees around the world who find a way to make a difference everyday.
Now I'll turn it over to Curt to discuss the corporate and segment results.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll start with our second quarter corporate results on Slide 4.
Overall sales revenue increased primarily due to revenue from the businesses we acquired in 2014.
This was partially offset by lower selling prices which largely reflected lower raw material and energy costs lower fiber fiber segment sales volume and foreign exchange rates.
Our operating earnings increased primarily due to the strong performance in advanced material segment and earnings from acquired businesses.
Operating earnings also improved as we continue to hold onto value in the quarter reflecting a specialty and special position nature of a significant portion of our product portfolio.
These were partially offset by the impact of propane hedges lower volumes in our fiber segment and an unfavorable shift in foreign exchange rates.
Our operating margin increased by 100 basis points to 19%.
Overall earnings per share increased to a record $2.1 per share a very strong quarter as we continue to deliver earnings growth.
Moving next to the segment results and starting with Additives &amp; Functional Products on slide 5.
Revenue increased due to both sales of acquired Taminco businesses and higher coatings product sales volume attributed to stronger demand in key end markets such as transportation and building and construction.
This was partially offset by lower coatings and other formulated product selling prices which reflected lower raw material and energy costs.
An unfavorable shift in foreign exchange rates was also a headwind.
Operating earnings increased year-over-year primarily due to earnings from acquired businesses with the Heritage Eastman businesses about flat.
We continue to expect strong full year earnings growth for this segment due to earnings from acquired businesses with earnings in the Heritage Eastman business relatively flat as solid volume growth offsets the effects of currency and propane hedges.
Next is Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers on Slide 6 sales revenue declined 11% primarily due to lower prices reflecting low raw material costs and an unfavorable shift in foreign exchange rates.
We continue to see a favorable shift in product mix due to stronger volume growth of differentiated hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins in the hygiene and packaging markets and non-solid Plasticizer substitution in North America.
In the first half this volume improvement was offset by limited availability of key raw materials in non-hydrogenated resins and declines in Plasticizer sales outside of the United States.
Operating earnings increased in the second quarter as improved spreads for Adhesives was partially offset by currency.
For full year 2015 we expect to continue to improve our product mix with strong growth in hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins and non-solid Plasticizers.
We expect this will be partially offset by the impact of currency and the propane hedge.
Taken together we continue to expect Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers will deliver strong earnings growth for the year.
Now to Advanced Materials on Slide 7 which is delivering on all elements of their strategy volume growth mix improvement and fixed cost leverage.
Sales revenue increased due to higher sales volume and mix improvement across the segment and sales of products of the acquired performance film business.
This strong volume growth was partially offset by lower selling prices primarily for copolyesters due to lower raw material and energy cost and unfavorable exchange rates.
One other point on second quarter volumes during our first quarter call we said destocking in the early part of the first quarter had subsided by March and that we were seeing momentum heading into the second quarter.
We believe restocking in the second quarter was a contributor to the strong volume growth.
Earnings for the quarter were record primarily due to high sales volume and improved product mix especially for Eastman Tritan copolyesters and interlayers for Acoustics properties.
Operating earnings also benefited from improved margins reflecting our value proposition the benefits of fixed cost leverage and earnings from acquired businesses.
These items were partially offset by unfavorable shift of foreign exchange rates.
On the full year outlook for Advanced Materials they delivered an outstanding first half of the year.
We think you should look at the first two quarters together with the first quarter somewhat lower than it otherwise would have been due to destocking and the timing for lower cost flow of goods through the inventory.
The second quarter was stronger impart due to restocking and the flow through of lower raw material costs.
For the back half of the year underlying business performance should remain very solid.
We expect to continue to have year-over-year volume growth and mix improvement.
However it is typical for volumes to be seasonally slower in the back half of the year and we expect that again this year.
And raw material and energy cost are expected to increase moderately in the back half of the year.
With all that said Advanced Materials is positioned for very strong earnings growth in 2015 which should give them momentum heading into 2016.
Now Fibers on Slide 8 second quarter revenue volume and earnings were about as expected up slightly compared to the first quarter and down year-over-year.
We attribute the decline in revenue in earnings year-over-year to inventory destocking as we previously discussed.
Despite the decline in volume operating margins held at 31%.
On our full year outlook we continue to expect acetate tow volumes will increase in the second half of the year.
Based on orders under books and discussions with our customers were expecting tow volumes will be about 20% higher in the second half of the year compared with the first half.
And we will continue to benefit from the action we took earlier this year to reduce cost by shutting out our U.K.
acetate tow plan.
Taken together were pretty much on track with our previous guidance albeit maybe slightly lower today than we thought back in April.
Ill finish the segment review with specialty fluids and intermediates on Slide 9.
Sales revenue increased due to sales of products of acquired businesses partially offset by lower selling prices particularly for olefin-based intermediates.
Operating earnings decreased due to earnings from the acquired businesses been more than offset by the impact of propane hedges.
Looking at the full year we have a number of factors impacting results.
We expect to continue to benefit from volume growth and earnings in acquired businesses.
Sales volume for the Heritage Eastman business is expected to be about flat as solid end market demand is offset by increasing internal uses of intermediates for both Taminco businesses and growth in Heritage Eastman business as well as lower polymer intermediate volumes.
And we continue to project propylene and ethylene prices to remain low for the back half of the year negatively impacting olefin margins.
We also expect the impact of the propane hedges to be significant for this segment for the balance of the year as the cost of the hedge flows through inventories.
We therefore expect overall earnings in 2015 to be somewhat lower than 2014 earnings.
On Slide 10 our transition to an overview of our cash flow and other financial highlights for second quarter.
We continue to do an excellent job of generating cash with second quarter operating cash flow of $591 million.
Net earnings were solid and we continue to be disciplined with working capital.
Its probably also important to note here that we had nominal income tax payments and no contributions to our U.S.
pension plans in the quarter.
These payments will be more heavily weighted to the second half of 2015.
We generated $450 million of free cash flow for the quarter capital expenditures totaled $141 million and were on track for full year capital expenditures of between $700 million and $725 million.
As our underlying capital schedules are also weighted to the second half of the year.
And our second quarter dividend was $60 million and our effective tax rate for the second quarter was just over 27%.
We continue to expect our full year tax rate will be between 26% and 27% reflecting the continued benefits of our improvement in business operations and also reflecting our expectations that our friends in D.C.
will sign the tax extenders including the R&amp;D tax credit and accelerated appreciation into law before the end of the year.
Given our outstanding first half were on track for excellent financial performance in 2015.
And with that Ill turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Curt.
Before I get into our outlook statement I want to reflect on the progress weve made in improving our portfolio.
On Slide 11 youll see four key financial metrics that demonstrate the strength of our performance over the last five years.
Top left we've had very steady and improving adjusted EBITDA margins over the last five years which demonstrates both the quality and stability of our portfolio.
Top right our EPS CAGR had 18% over the last five years is also industry leading and demonstrates the value of our diversified portfolio or our acquisitions and our ability to focus on delivering results.
Bottom left our free cash flow yield from 2014 was also industry leading and demonstrates a quality of our portfolio and the value of our advantage cost positions derived from our large scale integrated assets.
And bottom right of the last five years we have generated an industry leading 23% compounded total shareholder return creating outperforming value for those shareholders who have owned us.
And the first half of this year continues this trend of strong performance in margins earnings and cash flow.
And that leads to our 2015 outlook on Page 12.
We are off to a great start to the year with our first half results setting a record for the quarter and for the first half of the year.
As I have mentioned this performance is a result of excellent growth by our specialty businesses.
In particular our high growth innovative products are driving mix improvement which contributes to our strong margins.
And we also expect demand recovery in tow and our Fibers business.
We are also seeing attractive accretion for Taminco in the bolt-on acquisitions.
And relentless cost management is also contributing to our strong performance.
We expect the momentum from these factors will continue into the second half of the year.
We also expect to face challenges.
Global economy continues to be slow raw material and energy costs are an increasing challenge current movements in oil and olefin prices are good example and the U.S.
dollars continue to strengthen.
In this less than ideal business climate we remain focused on what we can control which is executing our strategy to deliver results.
Weve done a good job in the first half of the year staying focused and Im very confident that we will maintain our focus in the back half of the year.
When you net the positive momentum and the challenges together we expect to hold on to the gains of the first half and we expect second half earnings to be similar to last year.
As a result we are confident that 2015 will represent the sixth consecutive year of solid earnings growth for Eastman and that as a track record we are going to build on going forward.
Turning next to capital allocation on Slide 13.
This chart shows our expectations for cash generation from 2015 through 2017.
We had a very strong operating cash in the quarter and we expect this will continue given the quality of our businesses.
While we are generating significant operating cash flow we are also making meaningful investments in organic growth initiatives such as Tritan Crystex and PVB interlayers.
When you subtract the CapEx from the operating cash the results in very strong free cash flow that we expect will still be above $900 million for 2015.
And we expect that our cash generation will increase in the coming years so that for the period of 2015 to 2017 we will generate greater than $3 billion of free cash flow.
In a short term our first priority for this cash will be repaying approximately $1 billion of debt that finance to Taminco acquisition.
Through the first half of this year net debt declined by $280 million.
By the second half of 2016 we should bring our metrics back inline to an investment grade credit rating to the combination of paying down debt and growing EBITDA.
We will continue to fully deploy our balance sheet in a disciplined and balanced manner.
Beyond delevering we have increased our dividend 4x in the last four years and over this time the dividend has almost doubled from an already attractive level.
And is reasonable for investors to expect that dividend will continue to grow as earnings grow.
As you do the math you will see that we still have significant free cash flow after delevering the dividend payments.
While we are very excited about the value we are creating from our acquisitions we do not expect to complete any large acquisitions through 2017.
We have been very disciplined in our acquisitions with the focus on generating attractive returns on capital earnings growth and further enhancing the quality of our cash flow.
However I believe the transaction multiples are getting too high making it more difficult for our acquisitions to meet our financial return expectations.
More importantly we are very focused on delivering results from our specialty portfolio as a robust set of growth platforms and successfully integrating and driving results from our recent acquisitions.
Therefore you should expect cash will be fully deployed in an increasing dividend and share repurchases.
Of course we will remain open to bolt-on acquisitions if they are very attractive and have a strong fit with our existing businesses.
Over the last five years we've been very disciplined and balanced in our capital allocation decisions as we grow the company and generate optimal returns.
That balance and discipline will continue going forward.
I'll close on Slide 14 with how we're doing so far on the key things for 2015 These are the same as we shared in January and you heard us emphasize each throughout this presentation today.
We are delivering on what we set out for ourselves in 2015.
Our performance is outstanding in our dynamic business environment on a range to key metrics we are delivering great results.
Our EBITDA margins demonstrate that we have a robust portfolio of attractive specialty businesses with limited commodity exposure and advantage cost positions.
We are on track for our sixth consecutive year of solid earnings growth and for free cap would exceed $900 million something that only a very small percentage of S&amp;P 500 companies have been able to do in the last 10 years.
We continue to make progress driving growth in our specialties improving product mix with high growth of our innovative high margin products and our acquisitions are on track for creating value.
And we maintain our commitment to fully deploy our balance sheet in disciplined and balanced manner and this discipline the next year means returning a very strong free cash flow to shareholders.
We've got a great strategy a great portfolio businesses and simply an outstanding group of employees that continue to execute.
Im very confident in our ability to continue creating value for all of our stakeholders.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
I look forward to your questions.
And with that I will turn it over to Greg.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
Weve got a lot of people on the line this morning and I'd like to get to as many questions as possible.
So please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
With that Christine were ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And well go to David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
First on Fibers your volumes were down little bit more than they were down in Q1 while your competitors showed a little bit slower volume decline.
Why didn't your volume growth decline slow in Q2 versus Q1 at least year-over-year? On the Fibers business volumes played out exactly as we expected from the beginning of the year.
So with our customers who have a slightly different mix since our competitors so you really shouldnt compare us to them.
We expected this kind of volume through the second quarter and we are very encouraged to see the volume come back by about 20% into the second half of the year versus the first half of the year.
So I think that what we see is exactly on track to what we expected on that recovery and the destocking seems to be abating.
Very good.
And just on Advanced Materials phenomenal quarter any sense to how much you may have over earned in Q2 versus on normalized run rate given the restock and the lower PX cost? First of all Advanced Materials just had a stellar first half of the year and we're incredibly proud of all the innovation effort of employees in that group delivering on a series of investments we've been making for years.
And as we said in the first half of the year we saw volume be a bit slower than we would have liked in the first quarter and we knew that was destocking as we are debating a lot of prices with our customers and once we got that result we saw the volume come back.
So you do have a bit of destocking restocking event in that second quarter.
But I really do think as Curt mentioned in the prepared remarks the first half of the year when you combine it together is a good way to look at the performance of this business which was just outstanding and it's also important to keep in mind when you look at the volume growth of this business Curt mentioned in the first quarter call that we had shifted acetate from Advanced Materials to additives and functional products.
So the volume growth is actually even a bit stronger in the second quarter than in the first half then you see by about two percentage points in Advanced Materials and as you look at AFT about two percentage points less because thats a fairly low margin product so thats really affecting volume more than it is profit.
So when you look at all that it comes together as a great first half of the year.
That product mix and strength of volume growth on a year-over-year basis we see continuing to the second half of the year but it is very important to keep in mind what Curt said which is the seasonal business so demand will seasonally come off in the second half of the year versus the first.
So if you look at history over this business and how it has performed first half second half I think that's a reasonable expectation here.
Thank you very much.
And our next question comes from Duffy Fischer with Barclays.
Good morning.
Another quick question on tow.
Very good margins in the first half given the volume the decline can you roughly quantify what the overhead absorption was on kind of a down 20% volume number? Well we look at all the moving parts Duffy so we don't really break out that individual piece but I would keep in mind that even if there is some fixed costs absorption this business had we are able to compensate for some of that with the actions we took with our shutdown of our U.K.
working team facility.
So as a whole we've always said this business is doing well and we expect it to continue to have operating margins growing 30%.
Fair enough.
And then I think you referenced on pensions that we should expect a little more cash outflow in the back half of the year roughly how much are you targeting? For the U.S.
to find benefit plans our expectations will contribute about $100 million and that will all be in the second half of this year.
Great.
Thank you guys.
And our next question comes from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
The Ag commentary has been generally quite weak from all the Ag chemical producers which are euro Taminco's customers.
So can you just discuss Taminco's Ag outlook? Sure Taminco had a very good second quarter.
We had solid volume growth both in the functional means that go into the row crops as well as a nice performance in our crop protection business which goes into the more perishable fruits vegetables and flowers.
As we look at the rest of the year we expect volume to remain solid in the crop protection business.
On the functional means part of that business we expect the volumes to come off a bit consistent with industry.
It's very important to keep in mind though that the row crop business corn and soybean that everyone else is talking about in their earnings release is only 10% of the revenue of Taminco.
So it's not a significant driver of the overall earnings portfolio and its actually done quite well in the first half of the year.
So it's not that significant for us.
The great thing about Taminco is like Eastman.
We have a very diversified portfolio of end markets from the egg the food feed egg exposure as well as the water treatment personal care and other industries.
And so you're not really tied to any one market too much.
And I think that's what's robust about their portfolio and I think that's robust about Eastman's portfolio where we don't have any end market more than 15% of our total revenue.
And in this sort of volatile economic times that gives a lot of diversity and strength to be consistent in our earnings.
Great.
Thank you for that.
And then can you discuss the outlook for some of your propylene derivatives like Oxo's.
Given your hedges that are in place how do you see the derivative pricing playing out in the second half? Thank you.
Sure.
I think it's always a spectrum of specialties to the commodities so the specialty side of our olefin derivatives whether it's [axonal] [ph] and ketones that we sell in Additives &amp; Functional Products or few of the other products that we have.
We're going to maintain good price discipline and hold on to a lot of value relative to raws.
Special positions will also have some durability in that and the commodity is obviously going to follow prices down.
So in general I think we've done a great job of holding onto values especially in AFP to some of that value to offset the hedge costs and the currency headwinds that that segment has same thing to some degree in the Plasticizers business.
And then obviously SFI's follow propylene down a little bit more quickly given the nature of their products.
They've done a great job actually in holding on to value in the first half of the year but as we look at the second half of the year those prices are going to catch up to the propylene and ethylene prices that they are associated with.
We'll move onto our next question please.
And our next question comes from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
Question here you referenced good coatings volume and we've seen so far that it's sort of a weak environment for the downstream coatings customers.
So what do you attribute the strength in your volume to and was that a restocking or how should we think about it? Good morning Vincent.
What we saw is a good sequential improvement from first quarter to second quarter as similar to Advanced Materials you had some of the sort of destocking events play themselves out in the first quarter.
About your volume growth on a year-over-year basis when you look at coatings is very consistent with our downstream customers.
So you're seeing 3% to 4% kind of volume growth.
Remember that adjustment I just gave you around acetate we got to take about 2% out of the AFP segment.
And then tires was obviously a little bit less than that.
So good solid volume growth but I wouldn't call it strong this whole coatings season hasn't really played out as anyone hoped.
Okay.
And just as a follow-up the non-hydrogenated resin raw materials and then the lack of availability can you remind us what's that all about and how that's going to evolve over the back half? Sure a trend has been going on since 2010 that can expect the Shale gas and the driving of cracker feed slate and refinery feed slate to lighter and lighter feed stocks.
Because what we basically do is take C5 and C9 resin oil that is a byproduct of those crackers and upgrade them into resins.
So as these feed stocks slates have been moving lighter you have limited availability of those raw materials to turn into tackifying resins.
And we saw demand continue to be strong and grow from packaging through hygiene and some other applications and then you continue to have limited raw material availability and that created the constraint as relatively tight that's given us some pricing power.
We do expect some of that to sort of dissipate a little bit in the non-hydrogen resins refining more raw material availability as we're able to pursue more growth of course that will also reduce some of the tightness in the marketplace.
and so in this environment it's hard to find laws it gives a competitive advantage.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
And our next question comes from Aleksey Yefremov with Nomura Securities.
Good morning thank you.
In your Fibers business is it fair to say that that margin should improve in the second half because of higher volumes? Certainly we'll see some improvement in asset and capacity utilization rights as we go into the second half but I wouldn't call it material.
We try and run our plans on a fairly even basis in the business like this we knew that the restocking was going to come and improvement in demand and so we've been pretty steady on that.
So I think that the margins should stay pretty similar.
Thank you.
Now in Advanced Materials just a bit a longer-term question where are you in adoption cycle for both new interlayers product and for Tritan how do you expect those volumes to keep growing in 2016? We expect very strong growth in those products going into 2016 as well as many other products in Advanced Materials.
So on Tritan this is our BPA-free plastic that's an alternative polycarbonate for all types of houseware applications and medical applications and there is a very large addressable market in front of us where we have plenty of room to grow and that's why we have done the debottleneck on that asset as well as have another capacity expansion planned.
Interlayers is another great story we've seen tremendous double-digit growth in the acoustic interlayers which is a very high value product that we sell that requires a cabin in the car or allows you to lightweight the glass in the car to improve the fuel efficiency.
And not only are we seeing good adoption from luxury down into mid-level cars we're also gaining more square meters per car because people are starting to use acoustics on the windshields and the sunroof I mean beyond the windshields into the side lamps and into the sunroofs.
So real estate is increasing the number of model is increasing it's just a great story.
I would also highlight other things going on in Advanced Materials.
So we have some new display products are going to mobile devices showing tremendous growth and very high margins and performance homes business had a good first half of the year and I expect it to have a very good year next year as well.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo.
Good morning guys and congratulations on a record quarter.
I was planning on burning up my question to Curt asking who his friends were in DC but I'll save that for another time.
I want to talk about cash flows over the next couple of years.
You are projecting over $900 million free cash flow this year and according to the chart it looks similar next year let's call it $2 billion over the next two years.
You're going to spend a billion on debt paydown you're going to spend $400 million on dividend youre talking about maybe $100 million on pension and based on your commentary regarding M&amp;A and the non-likelihood of that occurring and certainly nothing of a larger order of magnitude that essentially leaves $0.5 billion on share buybacks for the next two years am I interpreting that correctly? Frank this is Curt.
So first of all on the math you see that trajectory that has both improved operating earnings and as we look at our Investor Day back if you recall we also expected our capital expenditures to moderate into 2017 over 2015 and 2016.
As it relates to your math of what free cash flow remains after we finish deleveraging and paying our dividends I would say yes there is a good healthy nearly $1 billion available in general terms but free cash flow to deploy and as we've said before we expect our balance sheet to be fully deployed during this time period.
All right terrific.
Thank you so much.
And I just want to get an update in terms of the 2015 headwinds I believe you said in a not too distant past that you thought the propane hedges were $0.40 to $0.60 of headwinds FX was $0.25 of headwind and fiber destock was $0.20.
Do you have any update on those three metrics? Well let me update you on the first two and fibers I think is generally consistent with our expectation maybe a little worse but generally speaking pretty close to our expectation.
If you think about the impact of producing versus purchasing olefins we've talked about that last about being roughly around $0.60 a share.
The short answer to that question is there has not been a material change to that but I can't resist always remind people what is considered into that $0.60 a share.
So recall we purchase - we produced about 55% of the propylene we need we purchased the rest and we consume half of the ethylene we produced et cetera.
So you know those aspects.
On a cash flow itself the cash flow hedges were about two-third hedge of this year and just over 50% next year.
Cracking spreads are expected to compress in the second half of the year given that continued volatility in olefins that Mark talked about.
In addition just don't forget the hedges that are going to weighted more second half of the year as it flows to the inventory.
So we are trying to mitigate this through various operating activities as well as the advanced feedstock mix where we are now 70% propane.
And then finally again I would think about the concept of cracking spreads is theoretical for us because the vast majority of the olefins are kind of sold through derivative.
So if I think about the impact the hedge impact can be a little greater in the third quarter than the fourth quarter through that flow through but at the same talk in the guides they are still going to try all they can to hold on to pricing.
So well see how this plays out.
We continue to see volatility in olefins but well just have to try to say as nimble as possible as they try to keep that impact to roughly that $0.60 a share.
On currency last we talked about that.
We talked predominantly just specifically the Euro and we said that was going to be roughly $0.30 a share impact that remains the same albeit we are facing a little bit more currency headwinds just from some of the other basket of currencies we deal with.
And so for example just in second quarter our currency headwind is $30 million alone.
So the $0.30 per share impact for the year over euro is about the same.
We are facing a little bit more headwind just because of the other currencies that have been the value against the dollar.
Specifically the Yen is the one thats driving to other challenges.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from Nils Wallin with CLSA.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
On Advanced Materials very impressive incremental margin would you help us understand all the different elements that went into that was there a mix obviously your profitability had a great result compared to the revenue growth? Sure.
So this story is consistent with what we have been talking about this business since 2012.
There are three elements.
There is volume growth there is mix and there is fixed cost leverage.
We have made a lot of investments in this business both organically as well as several of the acquisition sitting in this business.
And as a result you have a great EBITDA margin in this business when you look pass the DA it's very high variable margin.
So when you deliver volume and then significantly improve mix because the products are growing at the double digit rate within this segment like Tritan like acoustic interlayers parts of the performance films business in North America and China you have tremendous variable margin that drops the bottom line because of the fixed cost leverage.
So its really a win in all three funds showing what this business can do.
Got it.
And then on Fibers was there any sort of transactional benefits from currency in that business for the quarter? Fibers have some exposure to the currency but its modest relative to the overall profitability of that business.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from James Sheehan with SunTrust.
Thank you.
Could you talk about what youre seeing in terms of tire demand globally and update us on your Crystex business? So the tire demand situation is pretty - in our view is probably pretty consistent with global tire companies.
North American U.S.
tire demand has been quite solid and good growth for us its been offset by challenges in China.
There is clearly two things going on in China.
One is their own economy has slowed down thats reduced the amount of tires and you have to remember Crystex is highly leveraged to commercial tires.
So that is a challenge in China and plus the Chinese are facing significant challenges in exporting products out of China to the U.S.
due to tariffs as well as currency is not helping them when they are trying to go to Europe.
So that market is very challenged on that front.
Thats been a challenge all year along and so we already embedded in our record earnings in the first half of the year as well as our outlook.
I think thats going to continue this way.
I think the destocking in China thats going on should play itself out this year.
And I am not sure if I caught this correct.
But could you just quantify what your spread benefit was in the second quarter in SFI? Well we don't quantify when you say spread in SFI we dont think of it in those terms Jim.
When we look at the $0.60 per share that is pretty much a full year outlook then it does that impact of producing versus purchasing olefins a fair bit of that does show up - almost roughly two-thirds.
It's important to keep in mind when we talk about that $0.60 Curt said something which is it is a theoretical spread.
It's not actual earnings.
Right so that is - if we are selling propylene and ethylene into the marketplace and while we do sell some ethylene in marketplace we dont sell any propylene or half of the ethylene we turn that into divertive products but have their own pricing dynamics and in many cases those prices are not falling as fast as propylene and ethylene.
So the headwind for us is being offset by great work by our frontline teams out there holding on to value in the marketplace.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from John Roberts with UBS.
Good morning.
Is the Texas railroad decision finalized now and if so did Westlake appeal it? John the disputes continue.
The Westlake the Texas railroad commission has had a room but that is being contested by Westlake.
Nothing really more to update you there other than what I liked is our legal team and the efforts we have because every time we have faced these challenges our team has own.
But it's just going to take time to work its course.
Okay.
And then in the Advanced Materials and the Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers where you get a lot lower Para xylene cost I imagine and also in plasticizers probably a lot of aromatics here as well.
Can you hold on to that for an intermediate period of time will it be multiple quarters before you might have to either respect some products where customers might want lower costs or pass that through? Sure John.
Advanced Materials the PX has been a nice tailwind but the vast majority of the earnings were generating Advanced Materials has been through volume and mix.
We certainly are benefiting from a nice Para xylene tailwind on that segment that's giving us some of the earnings there as prices are little bit sticky and how they follow PX down but a lot of that will play out through the year.
And so I think that there is some of that could be headwind into '16.
But as I look at that segment going into next year the volume and mix momentum is superior to some of that spread expansion.
So we will be able to carry earnings growth into next year.
Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers we certainly have seen some benefits also from PX as it gets turned into DMT for making the plasticizers.
But the margin compression of that industry due to aging competition has been pushing prices down pretty quickly with raw materials.
So there is no margin expansion in the Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers segment due to plasticizers.
That is just the volume mix upgrade story of selling more North American plasticizers non-phthalate plasticizers which is more attractive based on our advantage cost position then selling in Europe and U.S.
So that's not really a contributing factor to the margin improvement on A&amp;P.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks good morning.
You guys have mentioned some success in raw materials following quicker than product prices.
I'm just wondering is the flow through of your hedges and lower market prices for some of these raw relative to your product price do you think that spreads overall for the company improves declines what you see happening sequentially into the second half? In the second half of the year I think that  when you look at the olefin spread like I said earlier on SFI side I think the margins are going to compress with propylene pricing coming off and obviously the hedge is fixed.
So you can see some compression there and the majority of the propylene hedge goes into SFI.
Youll see some of that also flow into AFP and to a lesser extent to A&amp;P.
So that will certainly be a factor going into the second half of the year.
There is a lot of other great things going on in volume and mix and holding onto prices some especially that helps offset some of the headwind but its certainly a factor.
Would you say that there is something Im guessing you would but unique to your own portfolio I mean its pretty remarkable if you got absorbed that hedge that youve been able to see some margin benefit I guess maybe in some of the other segments.
But I would have expected maybe the market competitors who don't have that hedge issue to be a little bit more aggressive.
So theres something about the end markets have been a little bit more disciplined around pricing or is it just your own product mix is unique and you do have a few problem parts where that hedge is really dingy or how should we think about that? First of all I think we do have a fairly unique product mix in some places especially our specialties that we make - that are olefin derived are very unique to us where we have very strong market leadership and market positions.
And so we're in a good position to fight and hold onto value.
I think weve got great teams that have spend a lot of time focusing on how to create value and find value in the marketplace.
And its also important to keep in mind that the way we're creating value right now is a little bit different than the average olefin player.
So we're very North American focused in our olefins position and so were not benefiting at all from the outage driven tightness in Europe that's driving a lot of earnings up.
So that sort of not in our numbers and therefore not a headwind when those outages get removed.
And then in North America as youve noted we certainly have spent a lot of time trying to get into more attractive end markets and segments with our olefins because we can be given our smaller size in olefins be very more - make sure that I think thats been quite helpful.
But even there we're not really expanding margins this year because of the hedges you've noted which I would certainly prefer to have the earnings and cash without the hedges this year.
But it does also help us out when we go into 2016 where we're not going to have as much of - that much of a headwind as we go into 2016 because of the hedge.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Good morning guys nice quarter.
In terms of your outlook for the second half you did a nice job growing your earnings in the first half I think you mentioned flattish year-over-year growth in the second half.
So any particular reason that the second half is going to be more difficult to grow on the second half and maybe point out some areas of concern and maybe some areas of potential upside? Sure.
On the upside I think we continue to see good year-over-year volume and mix improvement over the second half of last year in the specialty businesses.
And we expect that to continue to drive growth.
We expect the acquisitions of course to continue to provide attractive earnings accretion and that we're happy about the recovery in volumes in tow.
But as we clearly guided those positive momentums do get eroded as these propylene prices and ethylene prices create some challenge for us relative to our hedge as well as currency being a challenge as we go into the second half of the year.
So we netted altogether and you see a little bit of slowdown in the economy effecting volume growth rates been a comparative what we would have  what we experienced in the first half of the year.
But I think and to be clear on the economy that's really a global economy point I want to make.
From our point of view China is not that big of a deal.
China is only about 10% of our revenue in total for the company including fibers and its important when you're thinking about Eastman thats not a real driver for how were going to move forward.
Were very focused on only specialties in China we don't sell any commodities there.
Were very focused on consumer durables not infrastructure.
And in a way two of our biggest products going into China which is fibers and additives into tires which are pretty high margin.
Weve already basically embedded the China economic slowdown in our current earnings for this year.
And so that part isn't really a big driving factor for us but the overall economy is obviously not growing nearly as fast as we would have liked.
And Mark if I could add just if I think about some of the volatility we faced you've seen some volatility just in recent in olefin prices specifically propane and propylene so we're going to have to see how those play out.
The hedge does offset some of that impact but the hedge in the second half of the year will be about $30 million higher impact than it was in the first half of the year so that's weighing in our results as well.
Okay great thanks.
And then a quick question in Additives &amp; Functional Products.
I think you mentioned Heritage Eastman would kind of be flat year-over-year in 2015 versus 2014.
If you were able to sort of look at the heritage business on a constant currency basis and less the propane hedges.
What type of growth do you think the inherent businesses are generating? Very solid earnings growth you'd see the number to be quite a bit higher Im not going to talk about it from a AFP point of view.
But if you actually look at on a corporate point of view and you exclude both the benefits of a currency hedges and headwinds of the propane hedges wed be $0.50 a share higher as a company this year and that really gives you a great demonstration of the quality of our specialty portfolio and the quality of these businesses and our market positions we're very niche focused which is a huge advantage in times like this in how we maintain attractive market structures.
And so the business is doing great before you get to financial hedging and AFP would certainly be better as part of that.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies Financial.
Good morning.
Two quick ones if you look at your specialty businesses are there any end markets where you feel you have a good line of sight to acceleration over the next two to four quarters? I think that - Im not sure I would frame it as acceleration but I think weve got a great position to maintain great momentum.
So weve had great year-over-year growth in our specialties and our volumes and our mix especially in Advanced Materials of course.
We expect to sort of keep that momentum going in the second half of this year.
And as I think about 2016 I think that those specialty businesses position us quite well to deliver earnings growth in 2016 over 2015.
So we'll have a great momentum from those specialty businesses well continue to have good accretion from the cost synergies flowing in through the acquisitions and all that gives us some great momentum and a lot of the headwinds that we have this year will neutralize as you go into 2016 and then I think that position us really well to sort of keep earnings going and offset.
I think all chemical companies are benefiting to some degree from prices being sticky to rise and have some spud expansion in earnings this year.
I think ours is relatively limited for some of the points Ive already made in this call.
And so when you net it all together I think that momentum is what gives us confidence so we can keep growing earnings for a seventh consecutive year into 2016.
And then as if this choppy environment continues for the next three to four years is there any shift in your thinking about your degree of balance sheet leverage? No I think our balance sheet leverage were guided by our investment grade credit rating and that would continue to be our guiding as we make strategic choices.
What I have to say on cap allocation as Mark talked about if were facing this choppy market and that extra free cash flow that we have towards the back end of the three or time period is in absence of attractive M&amp;A were going to be repurchasing shares and returning cash to shareholders.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
There was $145 million cash inflow from other and from first statement what was that? Jeff those were couple there's various miscellaneous items in that line item.
One example for example is just our current tax accounts.
Since our payments were nominal we're basically building a current tax payable in the first half of the year particularly in the second quarter and then not to get elevated in the second half of year most tax payments getting there.
Also impacting that is just the timing of crude salaries and the settlement of hedges.
So I think youll see that line item that kind of helped us in the second quarter will moderate in reverse to second half of the year.
Okay.
And in the quarter the prices at for the company as a whole was negative six and I think for the six  was negative seven and I think for the six months was negative six.
How much did your raw materials fall like if you had to do a comparable percentage change? I dont know if I have a percentage Jeff but when I look in absolute dollars all-in our raw materials declined about $220 million in the second quarter and about $180 million in the first quarter.
Im sorry how much in the first? $180 million in the first quarter.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
That concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
At this time I'd now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Greg Riddle for any closing comments or remarks.
Okay.
Thanks again everyone for joining us this morning.
There will be a Web replay and a replay in downloadable MP3 format available on our website later this morning.
Hope you have a great day.
That concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on the Eastman's website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Thank you Nikki and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Mark Costa Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Executive Vice President and CFO; and Louis Reavis Manager-Investor Relations.
Before we begin I'll cover two items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual events or results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the company's third quarter 2015 financial results news release and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-Q filed for second quarter 2015 and the Form 10-Q to be filed for third quarter 2015.
Second earnings per share operating earnings and EBITDA referenced in this presentation exclude certain non-core costs charges and gains.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the excluding items are available in the third quarter 2015 financial results news release and the Appendix to the slides that accompany our remarks this morning both of which can be found on our website www.eastman.com.
Projections of future earnings in the presentation also exclude such items as described in the second quarter financial results news release.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Good morning everyone I'll start my comments on slide three.
We had a solid third quarter in line with our expectations delivering strong earnings and cash flow and improving EBITDA margins to about 24% in a tough environment.
We are continuing to benefit from the improvements we've made to the company resulting in a more specialty portfolio.
And we continue to show the benefits of a robust and diverse portfolio in both the breadth of our end market positions and geographic diversity.
Most importantly our specialties are driving our growth: Advanced Materials Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers and Additives &amp; Functional Products lead our earnings growth this quarter and for the year.
We are seeing some great innovation driven growth across the portfolio.
For example in window interlayers within Advanced Materials we are delivering very strong volume growth and we expect to set a record in overall volume with significant mix improvement.
As our premium acoustic and heads-up display products volumes grow more than 20% year-over-year.
With acoustics we continue to see strong macro trends to reduce noise in the cabin and overall weight leading to greater penetration to a wide range of auto models.
In Advanced Materials our recently launched displays product use for polarizer film in high-end mobile devices is delivering very strong earnings growth this year.
This great innovation enables dramatically improved optical properties when viewing mobile devices at an angle and contributes to thinner devices by enabling more than a 50% reduction in film thickness.
In Additives &amp; Functional Products we are realizing a compelling synergy as Solutia's market connect in tires has enabled double-digit growth in our tackifying resins as a performance additive for traction eco-efficient tires.
We are becoming the preferred innovative partner in the industry given Eastman has the most diverse set of technology platforms and deep application development capability relative to its competitors.
What I like about all of these examples is that we're delivering earnings growth through volume and mix upgrade in a tough environment.
In addition our acquisitions continue to deliver in this challenging environment.
We're on track for $0.50 accretion.
Taminco results remained solid due to the diversity of its portfolio and strong market positions.
We just completed our SAP cutover in nine months with no customer disruptions which is a great accomplishment and lets us ramp up our efforts on some of the cost and operational synergies.
Commonwealth has been an outstanding acquisition for Advanced Materials expanding our films product portfolio into paint protection films which we are growing rapidly through our own distributor network.
And the aviation turbine oil business we acquired from BP has integrated nicely with our existing aviation fluids.
We are also doing outstanding job on the cost management keeping cost relatively flat with strong productivity gains.
And within this we continue to shift our resource mix towards our growth programs.
Our strong performance was able to offset some increasing headwinds in declining olefin prices and a strengthening dollar particularly in some emerging markets.
And we continue to deliver strong free cash flow $208 million in the third quarter and over $600 million through nine months.
And we continue to expect free cash flow of $900 million for the year.
None of this would be possible without the strong commitment of the talented Eastman employees throughout the world.
Together all this puts us on track for a sixth consecutive year of earnings growth.
Now I'll turn over to Curt to talk about corporate and segment results.
Thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
I'll start with our third quarter corporate results on slide four.
Overall sales revenue increased primarily due to revenue from the businesses we acquired in 2014 along with increased volume and mix improvement in our specialty businesses.
This was mostly offset by two factors.
First lower selling prices particularly in Specialty Fluids and Intermediates and Additives &amp; Functional Products which largely reflected lower raw material energy costs.
And second the negative impact of foreign currency.
Our operating earnings increased primarily due to earnings from acquired businesses and strong performance in Advanced Materials and Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
With our heritage businesses there were two key drivers of this performance: Volume and mix improvement especially in Advanced Materials and our value-based pricing relative to raw materials reflecting the specialty and special position nature of a significant portion of our product portfolio.
These were partially offset by propane hedges and the unfavorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates.
Our operating margin increased by 100 basis points to almost 19%.
Earnings per share was $1.84 for the quarter primarily reflecting higher operating earnings.
Year-over-year earnings per share declined slightly as higher operating earnings was offset by higher interest expense and also other charges of $13 million primarily reflecting volatile emerging market currencies negatively impacting our foreign denominated balance sheet transactions in the quarter.
On a year-over-year basis these other charges were about a $0.09 headwind for the quarter and we do not expect this kind of magnitude in the fourth quarter.
Overall a strong quarter with particularly solid results in our specialty businesses.
Moving next to the segment results and starting with Additives &amp; Functional Products on slide five.
Revenue increased due to the sales of acquired Taminco businesses.
This was partially offset by lower coatings and other formulated products selling prices which reflected lower raw material and energy costs.
An unfavorable shift in foreign exchange rates was also a headwind.
Operating earnings increased year-over-year primarily due to earnings from the acquired businesses offset by lower propane hedges.
We continue to expect strong full year earnings growth for this segment due to earnings from acquired businesses.
We expect earnings in the heritage Eastman businesses will be similar to the previous year as solid volume growth continues to offset the effects of propane hedges and currency.
Next is Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers on slide nine.
I'm sorry slide six.
Sales revenue declined 12% primarily due to lower selling prices reflecting low raw material and energy costs and an unfavorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates.
We continue to see a favorable shift in product mix due to strong volume growth particularly for our non-phthalate plasticizers due to substitution in North America.
This was offset by a decrease in non-hydrogenated resin volume due to operational constraints.
Operating earnings increased in the third quarter as improved spread for both Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers was partially offset by currency and propane hedges.
For full year 2015 we expect to continue to improve our product mix with strong growth in hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins and non-phthalate plasticizers.
We expect this will be partially offset by impact of currency.
Taken together we continue to expect Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers will deliver strong earnings growth for the year.
Now to Advanced Materials on slide seven which continues to deliver on the elements on the strategy volume growth mix improvement and fixed cost leverage.
Sales revenue increased primarily due to sales of products of the acquired performance films business.
Higher sales volumes as well as mix improvement especially for inner layers.
This strong volume growth was partially offset by currency and lower selling prices primary for copolyesters due to lower raw material and energy costs.
Operating earnings increased primarily due to increased volume and improved product mix lower raw material costs the benefits of fixed cost leverage and earnings from the acquired business offset by lower selling prices and currency.
These are just outstanding results for the first nine months.
On the full year outlook for Advanced Materials we expect to continue to have year-over-year volume growth and mix improvement however it is typical for volumes to be seasonally lower in the fourth quarter and we expect this again this year and we also expect some inventory management in the quarter.
With all that said Advanced Materials is positioned for very strong earnings growth in 2015 which should give them momentum heading into 2016.
Now to Fibers on slide 8.
Revenue declined 8% mainly due t o lower volume primarily driven by acetyl chemical volume.
Lower acetyl chemical volume was due to decreased sales to the acetate flake joint venture in Kingsport.
While acetyl volume was down slightly year-over-year it was up about 20% sequentially and is on track to be about 20% higher in the second half of 2015 compared to the first half.
This total increase reflects both slowing inventory destocking and customer buying patterns.
Operating earnings were about as expected down year-over-year due to the lower volume but up sequentially as total volume increased to slightly below the previous year's level.
Operating margin was at 32%.
On our full year outlook we continue to expect second half earnings will be better than the first half with increased total volumes but full year earnings will be somewhat below what we expected in July primarily due to the lower acetyl chemical volumes.
I'll finish the segment review with Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates on slide nine.
Sales revenue decreased as lower selling prices particularly for olefin-based intermediates and lower chemical and other intermediates sales volumes more than offset sales of products of the acquired business.
Operating earnings decreased primarily due to the propane hedges and lower volumes in chemical and other intermediates more than offsetting earnings from the acquired business.
Looking at the full year we now expect a number of factors impacting results.
We expect to continue from the benefit from volume growth and earnings from acquired businesses.
Sales for the heritage Eastman businesses is expected to be above flat as solid end market demand is offset by increasing internal use of intermediates for both the Taminco business and the growth in heritage Eastman businesses as well as lower polymer intermediates volumes.
Propylene and ethylene prices declined further than expected during the third quarter.
We anticipate prices to remain low for the fourth quarter negatively impacting olefin margins.
We continue to expect the impact of the propane hedges to negatively impact this segment for the fourth quarter as the cost of the hedges flow through inventories.
From a corporate perspective we now expect the year-over-year headwind of producing versus purchasing olefins including the propane hedge to increase to about $0.80 per share for the full year versus our previous expectation of $0.60.
The increase in the negative impact will be predominantly reflected in Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates in the fourth quarter.
We will offset some of this headwind with pricing actions for our derivatives but not all of it.
As a result we expect Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates earnings in 2015 will be lower than 2014 earnings.
On slide 10 I'll transition to an overview of our cash and other financial highlights for the quarter.
We continue to do an excellent job of generating cash with our third quarter operating cash flow of $368 million.
Net earnings were solid and we continue to be disciplined with working capital.
We contributed $90 million to our U.S.
pension plans in the quarter and expect to contribute an additional $10 million in the fourth quarter.
Capital expenditures totaled $160 million and we anticipate full year capital expenditures to be around $675 million as our underlying capital schedules are weighted to the second half of the year.
We generated $208 million of free cash flow for the quarter and we continue to expect our full year 2015 free cash flow will be around $900 million.
Our third quarter dividend was $60 million reflecting a yield of 2% and our effective tax rate for the third quarter was just over 27%.
We continue to expect our full year tax rate will be between 26% and 27% reflecting the continued benefits of improvement in our business operations as well as reflecting our expectation that Congress will sign the tax extenders including the R&amp;D tax credit into law before the end of the year.
If these tax extenders are not passed this would be about a $0.10 per share headwind to our fourth quarter earnings per share expectations.
Given our strong first nine months we are on track for an excellent financial performance in 2015.
And so with that I'll turn it back over to Mark.
Thanks Curt.
We've talked a lot about the benefits of our portfolio transformation and how that contributes to our consistent earnings growth and strong cash generation.
On slide 11 we're giving you another way to look at it.
Portfolio transformation has been a key element to delivering strong earnings growth for quite some time on both organic growth as well as through aggressive actions to change our portfolio.
We divested roughly $3.5 billion of revenue with EBITDA margins below 10% we've acquired over $4 billion of EBITDA margins greater than 25% significantly upgrading the quality of our portfolio and our end market exposure.
Organically we've also grown our volume and most importantly upgraded our mix.
This is our both within our heritage businesses and within the acquired businesses through great efforts in innovation programs and commercial excellence to focus our growth in the most attractive products markets and geographies.
As a result of these efforts you can see that a very different story has emerged from five years ago.
We've strengthened the company; we're also growing the overall earnings by 70%.
So when you look at 2010 you can see corporate earnings were about $1 billion and Fibers and SFI was around 50% just over 50% of where our earnings came from.
And a significant story has evolved and changed as you look at the trailing 12 months of our earnings.
Not only is it 70% higher it is significantly higher quality.
So the AAA segments Advanced Materials Additives &amp; Functional Products and Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers grew 115% dramatically increasing growth and quality of earnings for shareholders and presenting a much more sustainable mix in how we're going to deliver earnings growth.
And obviously now Fibers and SFI being a smaller percentage of that total.
So it's a great story of the AAA segments delivering earnings growth which we can sustain going forward as well as Fibers being a foundational part of our story delivering stable earnings and SFI being the engine that delivers the intermediates to support the growth in the specialties.
So that portfolio I think is really demonstrating and creating a lot of value for us this year and showing how we can continue creating value for shareholders going forward.
And I think that's a good transition to our full year 2015 outlook on slide 12.
We've had a strong first nine months of the year with record EPS and cash flow.
Our specialty businesses are leading the way with growth in innovative product lines resulting in improved mix and overall doing a great job of holding on to value.
We've also done a great job remaining disciplined in cost management.
And as I mentioned previously our specialty acquisitions are delivering for us this year and we expect they will contribute meaningfully to our growth going forward.
Of course challenges remain and in some places they are intensifying.
Most notably olefin prices which started to move against us in the third quarter and we expect this challenge will continue into the fourth quarter.
We expect ethylene prices will recover in the early part of next year given the high industry cracker shutdown schedule planned for the spring.
Overall we continue to focus on the things that we can control most notably executing our strategy to deliver results.
When you net all the things that we're doing well against the challenges we face we continue to expect we will deliver our sixth consecutive year of earnings growth in 2015 something only a select few S&amp;P 500 companies have ever done in the last 10 years.
And that is something we expect to build on going forward.
I'll close on slide 13 with how we are doing so far in the key themes for 2015.
These are the same that we shared with you in January and we've emphasized each throughout the presentation today.
We'll continue to make great progress in transformation towards the specialty portfolio.
We are driving growth in our specialty businesses based on our world-class technology platforms that enable us to have strong leadership positions in an attractive set of niche markets.
We're accelerating earnings growth by improving our product mix with high growth of innovative high-margin products.
We're achieving attractive earnings accretion from high-quality specialty acquisitions and creating value by adding attractive end markets and products to our portfolio.
And we're generating industry-leading free cash flow based on our attractive market positions and advantaged cost positions.
We remain committed to fully deploying our strong balance sheet in a disciplined and balanced manner.
Our first priority for capital allocation is completing our repayment of approximately $1 billion of debt associated with the Taminco acquisition and we are on track.
Investors should continue to expect an increasing dividend which we have done for the last four years providing a greater than S&amp;P 500 average yield.
And after delevering we will repurchase shares in the back half of next year.
Of course we remain open to bolt-on acquisitions if they are very attractive and have a strong fit with our existing businesses.
Our performance through the nine months is outstanding despite the challenging business environment.
We are confident in our six consecutive years of earnings growth and on track for $900 million of free cash flow providing roughly an 8% yield.
We've got a great strategy a great portfolio of businesses and simply outstanding group of employees who continue to execute.
I'm very confident in our ability to create value for all of our stakeholders.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
I look forward to your questions.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
We've got a lot of people on the line this morning and we'd like to get to as many questions as possible.
So I ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
With that Nikki we're ready for questions.
And our first question will come from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
Mark I know it's early but looking to 2016 can you grow earnings next year? And if so what are the key drivers headwinds as well as tailwinds do you think? Sure Dave.
I would have never guessed that question coming from you.
So happy to talk about it.
First and to keep it simple we're confident we can grow earnings in 2016 relative to 2015.
We have several tailwinds that I think are important.
The most important by far is that continued growth in our specialty segments the AAA segments I think are all well-positioned to deliver earnings growth.
And the key drivers of it will be the volume and mix that they have continuing to leverage the acquisitions that they've done as well to deliver that growth.
The second will be a net tailwind from the hedges coming off so you've got the propane hedge coming off.
you also have some of the currency hedge coming off the net that provides that provides a tailwind.
I think it's reasonable to expect that olefin prices next year relative to this year are likely to be higher especially given how low they've gone in the back half of this year with sort of supply gluts in ethylene and propylene.
So that will certainly be helpful.
Of course there are the synergies that we have around the acquisitions the cost synergies and even some commercial synergies.
And I would note that we're also planning on aggressively managing our costs across the entire company.
We've done a great job in productivity this year and we're going to ramp up our efforts for more aggressive actions next year to improve our cost position in the marketplace.
And lastly there's the strength of our free cash flow.
So we'll create value for shareholders in paying down our debt and then getting access to that free cash with repurchased shares.
So you add all those together and it's a nice set of tailwinds.
There is one headwind I think that applies to every chemical company that has raw materials derived from oil.
So we've been benefiting this year as raw material prices have dropped pretty rapidly and we've held on the prices in a number of our businesses expanding our margins.
And of course as you go through the year you give some of that back with price and so that's great this year.
Obviously if raws are flat next year that becomes a bit of a headwind.
I don't think that it's significant for us relative to some others because of the propane hedge and so much of our earnings are coming from cellulosics that didn't have spread expansion.
But there'll be some of that headwind that nets against those tailwinds.
And then it comes down to the big uncertainties around the global economic factors around overall market growth and currencies.
But assuming those are stable I think we're very well-positioned to deliver earnings growth because the tailwinds are quite significant.
So I think we're just well-positioned for some our seventh year of earnings growth and I think it's a great opportunity especially when you think about what we're delivering for shareholders and earnings growth strong EBITDA margins our cash flow yield it's a great valuation upside.
Inc.</span></strong> No.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
And just on acetate tow destocking Mark where are we in that process? So we're quite encouraged and happy to see demand come back exactly as we expected from the beginning of the year in tow 20% improvement sequentially into the third quarter was great.
And we expect volumes to continue to be solid into the fourth quarter.
So I think that when you look outside of China destocking I think has run its course.
And when you look inside China I think that you've got some risk of destocking continuing into next year.
They certainly have made progress in destocking from what we can see in the wholesale inventories.
But it's a little hard to know if they've gone all the way to achieving their objective.
But I think that overall what I would say is that expects sort of flat demand for us next year.
So outside China you have destocking ending but the normal macro declines of cigarette consumption netting against each other.
Inside of China you've got some expected growth in cigarette production as the Chinese National Tobacco Company continues to drive to meet its tax revenue growth targets.
You've got some filter lengthening that's going on still and you've got this question around destocking and chance of it being some but maybe not as much as this year offset by the Daiso joint venture which started up in the middle of next year obviously continuing into next year.
So all those net against each other and it also feels sort of flattish.
So global flattish situation when we look at demand for next year versus this year.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
And the next question will come from Aleksey Yefremov with Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Thank you.
Just a follow-up on Fibers Mark.
Do you think you can earnings in Fibers if demand is flat next year? We've been saying this all year.
I would expect earnings from Fibers to be stable but I'm not going to call it as growth or down.
I think it's going to be relatively stable.
There's a lot of moving parts.
We're in the beginning of our contract discussions with all of our customers on volume and price.
And so we'll comment more about that next year.
But I think it's stable which back to the 2016 earnings question it's stable.
It's not a headwind against the growth in the AAA segments.
Inc.</span></strong> In the AAA segments if we look short term in the fourth quarter do you think the raw material margin spreads can hold or do you expect to give back some of the pricing gains that you had so far? Yeah.
As you look at the AAA segment I think each segment has a different story.
And it's important to start by thinking about it from a stream point of view.
So cellulosics which drives a lot of earnings obviously in Fibers but also in Advanced Materials and Additives &amp; Functional Products.
There's been no spread expansion.
That business based on value our raw materials or coal that's not a spread expansion story so that's quite stable.
And then you've got sort of olefin versus paraxylene as the other components within those AAA segments.
And on the olefin side while both olefin prices and ethane and propane have dropped given our propane hedge we haven't had a lot of margin expansion in olefins anywhere in the portfolio when you look at it on a four-year basis.
And so I don't think you've got a huge margin expansion problem in olefins.
So you're then down to paraxylene and I think you've got some tailwind in Advanced Materials associated with paraxylene for our co-polyesters and that certainly been helpful.
But I'd put that in the order the third place of how we've driven earnings growth in Advanced Materials this year volume and mix being the number one driver the acquisition being number two and then that being number three.
So it will certainly mitigate how we can grow earnings next year but I still think we'll grow earnings.
And then Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers the one place where we probably also have some margin expansion especially in adhesives where the industry has been really tight and we've seen great margins in that business.
And we expect those margins to come off a little bit as we go into next year.
We also expect that to be balanced against volume growth in adhesives as we've been able to get more access to raw materials and address some operational limitations that we had this year.
And so that margin coming off versus volume growth will net against each other.
It's a little hard to call how that will play out.
But overall we look at the AAA segments and see earnings growth coming from those three segments delivering growth for shareholders next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from John Roberts UBS.
Morning.
Good morning John.
What will be your propane strategy in the future as the hedges roll off? Well I think right now we'll continue to evaluate kind of where we think propane is going as well as just what is the pricing of our propylene derivatives and ethylene derivatives.
Our hedging for this year next year are virtually down.
So there won't be any more hedging done at this point.
Beyond that we'll continue to evaluate as the market dictates.
Okay.
So it sounds like you'll be opportunistic in fact rather than having some sort of programmatic strategy? We will always have a programmatic strategy.
I'm just saying as it relates for the next couple of years that strategy has already been executed.
Okay.
And then Indorama recently acquired an idled ethylene Gulf Coast cracker for restart.
Any opportunities for your idled assets especially given the drop in propane? Well if you're talking about our  we have one cracker that's been idle and that has always been an asset we're always looking at ways to maybe create value.
But predominantly at this point our focus has been on our derivatives.
When you look at our crackers itself I don't see bringing that cracker up at this point unless there's another party that feels they can use that excess ethylene that comes from that.
What we're continuing to look for is just how do we deal with our excess ethylene still some good options out there some things we have to work through as you know.
But our focus is just how do we potentially get rid of that excess ethylene from our portfolio.
Okay.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from Frank Mitsch Wells Fargo.
Hey.
Good morning.
And nice job with the specialties this quarter gentlemen.
Thank you.
How are you? I'm doing fine.
Hey.
Mark quick question.
I know you're Northern California based or from 49ers or Raiders? Raiders.
Grew up on the Raiders.
All right.
Awesome.
We'll set-up a bet later on today for Sunday's game.
In the discussion regarding Advanced Materials you talked a lot about the acoustic interlayers and the fact that that's been growing I guess 20% was the comment made.
I'm just curious as to where we are in the spectrum of types of cars that the special product is going in and how much more penetration we might have? So how much longer can we expect to see double-digit type growth out of that? What's the penetration like there? Sure Frank.
The acoustic interlayers are just a fantastic product and it was greater than 20% volume growth this year it's just been tremendous.
And we really started with luxury cars and we're just in the process of moving into the mid-tier cars with the acoustics and the windshield which both quiets the cabin and now they're doing trade-offs between do I acquire the cabin or do I take glass out to hit better fuel efficiency.
So it's opening up a wide range of choices.
But I think that we're going to see  we're still just in the beginning of penetrating the overall market.
And I also see growth beyond just the windshield.
So we're seeing people start moving to laminated glass on the side windows as well for both safety reasons as well as acoustic reasons.
So we're getting more real estate per car more cars.
We have several years ahead of us in growth from a penetration point of view and we have a next-generation acoustic product that significantly improves performance over this one that's going to give us a whole another leg of innovation and growth on top of it.
So a lot of room to grow there.
And I'd also note that heads-up display has got a huge potential market in front of us relative to its current penetration.
We're seeing a lot of growth there as people are trying to work on better mobility and safety for information provision to drivers in the car.
So I think  and we're making significant improvements not just with the current product but a whole another next-generation product to allow a much bigger screen much better clarity in the windshields.
So this area is just on fire with innovation.
It's an exciting space for us.
All right.
Terrific.
I'll wait on buying a new car so I can get all these neat little things.
Curt when you talked about the $0.80 negative headwind on SFI for the balance of the year due to the decline in olefins and hedges I guess you were expecting that to be a negative $0.60 at the end of Q2 now you're expecting it to be a negative $0.80.
How much of that $0.20 delta was realized in Q3 versus Q4? Yeah.
I'd say Frank the $0.80 per share headwind is for the whole company and that is a $0.20 impact.
I would say some of that showed up in third quarter but a predominant piece of it's going to be showing up in the fourth quarter.
And then lastly Curt you also mentioned that if the tax extender your anticipation is that the tax extenders will be passed by Congress before the end of the year and that $0.10 is embedded in your expectations for Q4.
I'm not sure I actually caught what your expectations were for Q4.
Can you clarify that? Well let me clarify my expectation on the tax rate Frank.
What I would indicate is that if the tax extenders are passed our tax rate for the year will be closer to 26%.
If they're not passed they'll be closer to 27%.
All right.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Arun Viswanathan RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
I guess I had a couple questions on Taminco maybe if you can just help us understand if this is tracking according to your expectations on the accretion and what your expectations are for next year.
Obviously there's been some changes on the ag side.
Are those any concerns for you guys? Thanks.
So Taminco is definitely on track with our expectations except for currency.
So as we look at the overall business we certainly did feel like everyone else some pressure on the row crop-related ag part of Taminco's business.
It's important to remember that row crops are only about 10% of Taminco's business or just over 1% of Eastman's revenue.
So it's not a significant factor for us but certainly we're tracking with what you're reading in the press of the big ag companies on row crops and that being off a bit.
That has been offset largely by a strong performance in our crop protection business where we sell a great set of fungicides and soil fumigants and other products into perishable products that have done well this year and aren't caught up in this oversupply of corn and soybeans.
So that part is sort of hanging in there together on a net basis; obviously the oil and gas business didn't grow as much as we expected upstream but we've actually seen good downstream growth offsetting some of that where we sell products into cleaning up the gas.
And then water treatment and personal care doing quite well.
So overall I think the revenue side of the equation is hanging in relatively well.
They're doing a very good job of managing their cost like all of Eastman and providing good earnings accretion for the shareholders synergies coming in as we expected.
But we did take a hit on currency that certainly wasn't in our plans when I looked at this acquisition 12 months ago.
Okay.
Great.
And then I don't know if you talked about this but on the propane hedge is there any way you can help us quantify like the year-on-year change that you expect and now that your programs are complete for 2016 versus 2015? I mean you have like a $0.40 to $0.60 hit this year probably at the higher end of that.
Obviously it's likely to be less next year given the comps but how do you see it playing out? So Arun first  this is Curt and by the way welcome to our call.
I appreciate you coming.
Thank you.
Let me just clarify two things.
First of all as it relates to our expectations there's about an $0.80 headwind now for 2015.
And that changes  not because of the hedges it's predominantly because of selling prices with ethylene.
But if you think about our hedge we're about two-thirds hedged in 2015 and we've said that'll just be about 50% in 2016.
So that'll give you some magnitude of the shift that will occur that will have a tailwind for us as it relates to lower propane hedge costs.
Okay.
And then just lastly on SFI I mean obviously the business is challenged on the ethylene side.
Is there kind of a long-term view on where this fits into the portfolio? You've been decreasing your commodity exposure over the last several years is that still kind of the objective or is this kind of a permanent member? And I'll turn it over.
Thanks.
Well certainly the Texas integrated site that produces the ethylene and propylene and we translate that into all of our specialties that we sell out of that site is a permanent member of the company and one that we're focused on keeping.
As we've said since the summer of 2013 we've been looking to sell our small crackers that produce the excess ethylene which is the real volatility you're seeing today in earnings started in third quarter and you're going to see more of it in the fourth quarter.
We've wanted to get rid of that since 2013 but our sales process got disrupted by Westlake.
So we're still focused on doing that but the big cracker at the site produces all the hydrogen and steam for the site that runs all of our specialty businesses.
You have to run that at an extremely high reliability rate because we are making products where in some cases we're the only manufacturer in the world in the specialties and so controlling and maintaining that integrated site is essential for our specialty business.
And so we're going to continue to focus on doing that.
We're quite proud of the fact that we haven't had a force majeure in 20 years across our sites and our customers put a lot of value on that because they know that they can count on us as being a reliable supplier.
And in specialties when there's very few alternative suppliers it's a very significant part of our value proposition.
But we're going to always get out of every bit of commodity we can.
We've been doing it for the last seven years in the $3.5 billion of revenue we sold off.
So I think we're doing all we can.
We'll continue looking for those opportunities.
Great.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Nice quarter.
Hi.
Inc.</span></strong> Mark when you think about  you talked about the headwinds this year from Fibers and Specialty Fluids becoming bigger.
Clearly it's the specialty business is doing better.
So if you total it up how much better are the specialty businesses coming in this year than you thought at the beginning of the year? And is there a way for you to maybe just help us understand the growth that they're generating in total for you this year to offset some of those bigger headwinds? Sure Mike.
I'll try that at a high level.
The specialty businesses that have the growth the AAA segments they certainly are exceeding our expectations they're delivering more volume and mix upgrade than we expected at the beginning of the year in a tough economic environment and obviously doing a great job of holding onto value in our pricing where it's appropriate as raws come off.
So I'd say they're certainly ahead of our expectations.
And I think Fibers came out more or less where we expected this year so that's not been a surprise.
And I do think it will stabilize out as we go into next year.
And then unfortunately offsetting some of the great performance that we've seen in the specialties has been the significant drop in olefin prices that have gone well past the value of oil in the middle of the quarter in the third quarter and into the fourth.
That sort of offsets some of that great performance.
But the good news about the olefin price headwinds is I think they're relatively temporary because it is more of a supply-driven thing and I think will go to a more balanced situation next year from what all the experts seem to be saying.
So if that's true then that pressure will come off and not be offsetting the growth in the specialties.
Inc.</span></strong> And if you thought about 2016 from the growth perspective from your specialty businesses any reason why the growth wouldn't be similar 2015 versus 2014 that you could get a 2016 versus 2015? Yeah.
It's not going to be  I'd love to be able to tell you it was going to be that great.
But it's not going to be that strong when you look at the AAA segment on a 2014 to 2015 basis principally because one factor is not there which is the acquisitions have added a lot of earning from 2014 to 2015.
In addition I mentioned that some of the spread expansion that every chemical company in this industry has this year associated with oil on prices versus raws is not really expected next year as I'm thinking of raws being sort of flattish with oil being flattish into next year.
And if that's the case you'll focus on the volume and mix component of delivering earnings growth.
So it will certainly be a moderated growth in 2016 versus 2015 but still growth and I think that's going to show up as very good performance as we all get into next year.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
Morning Jeff.
How do you calculate your hedge cost? That is is it simply the difference between the price you've paid because you've hedged versus the price of propane that you would have bought in the market or is it more complicated than that? No Jeff that's generally the case.
We do have some options around our hedging strategy.
But to a greater extent they're forward contracts and with forward contracts it's just simply the price of that forward contract relative to the price.
And as we talked about before a lot of that forward contract was just around the dollar.
So what changed so that you thought it was $0.60 and now you think it was $0.80? Jeff that delta is not in  the propane impact hasn't changed.
That is just a reflection of pricing of olefins but predominantly the collapse in ethylene.
So Jeff for example in ethylene prices we started the quarter out when we were still in the sort of $0.34 range in the third quarter.
We saw spot dropped all the way down to $0.18 at one point.
We're in the sort of low-to-mid-20%s now.
So ethylene has just come off tremendously and the propylene has come off as well.
So this is purely a ethylene/propylene related issue especially ethylene relative to what we had originally expected.
And Jeff I just want to remind everyone.
This is our estimated benefit of producing versus purchasing olefins it's a theoretical calculation we try to provide which is influenced by the propane hedge but that is something we tried to provide to give some sense.
You still have the pricing dynamics above and beyond it.
Yeah it's important to keep in mind when we put out that $0.60 to $0.80 change that $0.20 is not what we're going to actually feel right? We're taking pricing actions to mitigate some of that pressure as we did already in the third quarter and we'll continue to try and do in the fourth quarter.
But it's certainly more pressure than we expected three months ago.
I'm still puzzled.
If the cost of the hedge is simply the difference between the propane price and your hedged propane price the price of ethylene or propylene shouldn't enter into that.
Okay.
Let me try and clarify Jeff.
When we talk about cracking spread headwind it is not a hedge comment.
It is an overall cracking spread comment.
So we're looking at the cracking spreads that we have ethylene and propylene prices minus the cost to produce those products of ethane and propane and the hedge all rolled in was a $0.60 headwind relative to 2014 when we started the year.
Okay.
All right.
And so when you go to where we are today nothing has changed on the hedge.
But what has changed is ethylene and propylene prices for the cracking spread calculation have come down significantly from where we were three months ago and creating some compression.
But it's important to keep in mind that we don't sell propylene in the marketplace we sell derivatives.
So each product the specialty products obviously we're going to do a better job on holding on the value versus some of the commodities in SFI as propylene comes down same story with ethylene which is predominantly sitting in SFI.
So  I mean if you weren't hedged would your spreads have contracted as well? Because propylene has come down really really fast and so I would imagine that propylene derivative prices would have come down at a slower rate.
That is is squeeze the function of your hedge or it's the function of the relationship between propylene and its derivatives? It's both.
If you think about  ignore the hedge for a second.
Cracking spreads have compressed this year versus last year right? And on top of that we have an additional cost headwind associated with the propane hedge.
So both of those contribute to the 14% to 15% cracking spread calculation.
But you're right.
In the specialty businesses like Additives &amp; Functional Products we've done a great job of holding on the value and price relative to how propylene prices have dropped but even there you start giving it back over time.
In SFI a lot of those products in the price moves pretty fast with propylene and ethylene so the drop in those prices drop revenue pretty quickly with the drop in ethylene and propylene.
And then you've got the cost structure on the other side.
Okay.
And then just two more quickly.
Jeff how about one more quickly please? Okay.
Then we'll try one more quickly.
Were your volumes affected by your hedged position? In other words if your cost of propane were lower would you have sold more tons of stuff? And so you were limited because of your cost structure or did it not affect your volumes? The hedge had zero effect on volumes.
We price based on value in the marketplace.
It has nothing to do with volumes.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
The next question comes from Bob Koort Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hey Bob.
Curt I think you said something about next year it's going to be more about volume unless maybe about some spreads to drive earnings.
I guess I was just hoping you could give us some sense of what you expect overall in volumes? It seems like this year  and the globe has grown some but the volumes haven't been very powerful.
Would you expect there to be improvement next year? Obviously the specialty side doing well but do you think the broad portfolio can get GDP-type volume growth next year? And why would you not think so? Yeah.
I think that we'll certainly see volume growth in the AAA specialty businesses consistent with GDP and then levered up by some of our innovative high margin products growing much faster than GDP.
So I think that when you look at Advanced Materials the end markets that we're serving there from consumer durables to transportation and medical all those markets are I think expected to grow well next year and we feel good about growth next year over this year.
Additives &amp; Functional Products same thing.
I think coatings will continue to grow and there's probably upside in residential housing in North America when you look at the housing start rates.
So that should be relatively good.
Tires has been a really tough year this year where we've been sort of flat in volume as China has come off with a lot of destocking and slowdown in their economic situation and that's been offset fortunately by North America and Europe.
But again tire volumes sort of flattish this year globally for Crystex and PPDs and then of course strong tire resin growth on top of that giving us overall growth.
And I would actually expect tire growth in China to be better and the rest of globe continue growing.
So again feel good about growth in tires next year because I think some of the destocking will be done in China.
And then Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers great underlying market trends in hygiene and packaging for the adhesives as well as the non-phthalate conversions in North America driving a lot of volume growth.
So over that I think it's all good.
As I mentioned already we expect volume and earnings to be relatively flattish in Fibers.
And then SFI is just the engine that makes everything else run.
So those kgs are a little deceptive because if we do shutdowns more in one year versus another for example all of that volume variance for the total company shows up in SFI as we have just  the run rates of what we can sell that's left over in SFI after we've done all the specialty growth for those intermediates.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And could you tell me what would you root for from an energy or oil price standpoint? Do you like what's optimal? A little inflation? a little deflation? Flat? In terms of how you respond to the market and what it does to your cost structure? And maybe your customer behavior? Thanks.
Yeah.
I think that like probably most chemical companies we all favor a steadily increasing raw material environment and a steadily increasing growth environment.
So oil going up on a steady basis is probably the best scenario you can hope for.
The worst thing for chemical companies is extreme volatility where the price of oil and raw is flying up and down.
Thanks very much.
Can we have the next question please? The next question comes from Laurence Alexander Jefferies.
Good morning.
Just a quick one.
If the ag market stabilized and oil extraction industries return to sort of a mid-cycle level what would your operating leverage to that be? Well as I just mentioned a steadily increasing oil price would certainly be good for the overall company.
When it comes to products going into ag and oil and gas specifically obviously that would be volume upside for us relative to where we are today and give us a nice earnings growth especially through some of the Taminco businesses.
Do you have a sense for how much you're under earning in those businesses currently? Well as I said in ag I don't think we're really under earning because while we took a hit on volume coming off a bit in corn and soybean crops we benefited from crop protection having a good seasonal year.
So I don't think there was a overall big hit this year for us compared to some of the ag-focused companies.
But I think there'll be modest improvement for us.
So I'm not going to call out this specific earnings gain.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Nils Wallin CLSA Brokerage.
Good morning.
And thanks for taking my question.
First one on Advanced Materials.
If acoustics is growing greater than 20% it's something like 30% or 40% of the business that would imply a higher volume growth year-on-year in Advanced Materials but I think you came at around 5%.
So is there something that's actually declining in volume or is it just the Tritan in the other performance films or just not growing as fast as acoustics? Yeah.
So acoustics is a great product but it's only part of overall Advanced Materials which is a very big segment.
So what we love about the overall Advanced Materials business is it's having a great year across a wide range of specialty products.
But some of the bigger volume products like copolyesters have a certain amount of limitation on how much they're going to grow that factors into that weighted average number that you're looking at.
And I'd also note that we had some offsets in performance films in emerging markets.
So you're selling films that go on to cars that are being sold.
And so places like Brazil Southeast Asia and even to some extent China have not been great for us for some of the performance films.
And so that's not been growing as much in some of those isolated markets.
I would note that performance films is growing incredibly well in North America and in some of our distribution channels in China.
But overall it nets out that way.
Understood.
Thanks.
And then I believe in one of the questions or in your commentary you said that there had been no spread benefit in cellulosics and you called out coal.
But my understanding correct me if I'm wrong I believe specialty pulp did come down in price so did your tow prices follow that or am I incorrect about the raw materials on the acetate tow? Well as we've talked about before the cost of our inputs for Fibers is pretty well known a year in advance as well as the contract negotiations we have.
And so some of that cellulosics impact on Fibers has already been reflected and you see the pricing behavior of Fibers in our numbers.
All right.
Thank you.
And just one last one if I may...
Nils I'm sorry but we've got...
No problem.
Okay.
people in the queue.
Okay.
We'll go to the next.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes.
Hi.
Good morning.
This is Eric Petrie standing in for P.J.
Your Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers margins have increased nicely over the last couple of years at 24% and I think that compares against the range of 17% to 20% that you gave at your Investor Day in 2013.
So is this expansion more or less a function of lower raw materials or are we setting a new range going forward? It's a mix of everything.
So when you  two stories in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
On the Adhesives side the industry has been tight giving us pricing power.
And obviously we've enjoyed that and improved our margins from that.
But it's also important to note that we're also upgrading the mix within that volume that you don't quite see.
So we're selling  having nice growth in our differentiated hydrogenated resins that are going into packaging and diapers and other products like that that are going quite well.
And we've had a bit of a decline in volume in our non-hydrogenated resins which are a lower margin that have been restricted because of raw material availability and some operational issues.
So net you've had a mix upgrade and some margin expansion in that story.
On the Plasticizers side you've had great volume growth offset by margin compression as the Asian competitors have been trying to sell their non-phthalate plasticizers in Europe and North America with the lower oil price and of course we're shale gas-based in those products so we've been feeling some compression there.
So as you look at next year which I think is the key to this question is you'll see some margins come off in Adhesives because there is some more raw materials being made available that cause it to be tight.
But we'll have more volume growth next year than this year in Adhesives offsetting that to some degree and we'll see how that plays out as we get into January.
And then on the Plasticizers side we should have good volume growth again next year and hope that the spreads stabilize and that should be a source of earnings growth.
So overall I think that the margin percentage will come down but we'll still be in a good position to deliver good earnings out of this segment.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
And then my second question can you just update us on your market share of non-phthalate plasticizers in the U.S.? What kind of utilization rates are you running at and do you have any expansion opportunities I believe with sterling to expand capacity? Yeah.
Taking it in reverse order.
We have plenty of capacity to grow in non-phthalate plasticizers and there's plenty of opportunity in this market to continue to grow.
We're just beginning the full conversion of this market to non-phthalate so we have several years to run.
Could we have the next question please? The next question comes from Vincent Andrews Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much.
I'll keep it to one question.
Your foreign exchange rate impact year-to-date is minus 3%.
Can you just remind us of what type of FX hedges you had on this year? And how much of them extend into next year so we can think about that? Sure.
If I could break it down if you think about the economic exposure we have with currency we're predominantly long in euro.
And we've talked about that being roughly a $0.30 per share headwind 2015 over 2014.
That has benefited about a 50% hedge (57:42) a little bit in 2016 the amount of hedge we have in place there.
But we'll still have a nice hedge to help mitigate some of that exposure.
And then on top of it we have some other foreign currencies we have exposure to on a smaller scale like the yen and others.
And so if I think about this year that's probably another $0.10 per share headwind.
And so when I look at currency for the full year about 40% headwind mitigated partially because of the euro hedge and we'll have a good euro hedge going into next year still but just to a smaller degree.
And just the euro hedge for next year it's a smaller percentage but at the same rate as 2015? Yes.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
We'll make the next question the last one please.
And the final question comes from Duffy Fischer Barclays Capital.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Good morning fellows.
A question back on interlayers.
One of your big competitors was sold a little over a year ago.
Is there any chance that that transition is part of the benefit that you're seeing today and may end up kind of being a little bit transitory then? We certainly saw that the industry consolidated with Kuraray buying DuPont's business.
But I wouldn't say that we are seeing growth this year because of that consolidation.
I think that everyone's out there trying to compete as best as they possibly can.
We're just enjoying a lot of growth because of our products and our value proposition to our customers.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just last one on the outlook you're running about $0.20 ahead year-to-date on EPS.
So if you took the very low end you could say Q4 could be down $0.20 year-on-year and still kind of make that up for the year.
Can you just talk a little bit more about how we should think about Q4 relative to that? Sure.
So when you think about Q4 I would expect year-over-year earnings growth in the AAA segments the specialty businesses are all focused in and positioned to deliver year-over-year earnings growth.
And then obviously with Fibers if volumes stay similar to the third quarter into the fourth quarter that's going to be a little bit less than the volume we had in tow last year so you're going to have a bit of an earnings headwind there.
And then it's just down to SFI where you have the impact of the lower ethylene prices and the lower propylene prices showing up most significantly.
And that's going to bring your earnings down sequentially from third to fourth quarter.
So when you net it all together we've picked up some headwind relative to where we were at the beginning of the third quarter.
But I still feel very good about earnings in total for the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks guys.
So I just want to make a quick summary's comment and we'll wrap it up.
So overall we feel great.
We've been working on this strategy for a long time to deliver and change our portfolio to being more specialty-oriented.
You can now see how the power of that strategy is working and delivering growth through the specialty AAA segments working hard to keep the Fibers business stable and believe we can do that.
And that I think is a compelling story of how we can continue to deliver our seventh consecutive earnings growth next year with great margins great free cash flow that gives additional upside to shareholders beyond the earnings growth and how we delever as well as repurchase shares next year.
So I just wanted to sort of really thank the Eastman employees as well for doing such a great job in delivering these results in a very difficult environment and showing what we can do with our portfolio.
And with that I'll wrap it up.
Okay.
So thanks again for joining us this morning.
A web replay and a replay in downloadable MP3 format will be available on our website later this morning.
Thanks again for joining us and have a great day.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everybody and welcome to the Eastman Chemical Company Fourth Quarter Full Year 2015 Conference Call.
Todays conference is being recorded.
This call is being broadcast live on the Eastmans website www.eastman.com.
We will now turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Riddle of Eastman Chemical Company Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Taylor.
And good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call with me today are Mark Costa Chairman and CEO; Curt Espeland Executive Vice President and CFO; and Louis Reavis Manager Investor Relations.
Before we begin Ill cover two items.
First during this presentation you will hear certain forward-looking statements concerning our plans and expectations.
Actual events or results could differ materially.
Certain factors related to future expectations are or will be detailed in the Companys fourth quarter and full year 2015 financial results news release and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including the Form 10-Q filed for third quarter 2015 and the Form 10-K to be filed for 2015.
Second earnings per share operating earnings and EBITDA referenced in this presentation exclude certain non-core costs charges and gains.
A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and other associated disclosures including a description of the excluded items are available in the fourth quarter and full year 2015 financial results news release and the appendix to the slides that accompany our remarks this morning both of these can be found on our website www.eastman.com in the investors section.
Projections of future earnings in the presentation also exclude such items as described in the news release.
With that Ill turn the call over to Mark.
Good morning everyone; Ill start on Slide 3.
2015 was another outstanding year for Eastman as we continued to make excellent progress on our strategy to transform towards a specialty portfolio.
We delivered our sixth consecutive year of solid EPS growth despite a very challenging global business environment and generated record free cash flow of $960 million reflecting strong earnings as well as the benefit of recent acquisition which generate outstanding free cash flow.
A strong contributor to earnings growth in our specialty businesses in 2015 was the progress we made on organic growth initiatives.
Ill highlight just a couple of examples.
In the Advanced Materials segment our window interlayers particularly our acoustic and heads-up display products delivered solid double-digit volume growth for the year.
Also in AM we delivered very strong growth from our new optical film solutions for mobile devices.
And in Additives &amp; Functional Products tackifying resins into tires was a strong contributor to overall growth in 2015.
These are just a few examples of how innovation and market development is supporting growth in an overall difficult environment.
We also did a great job in 2015 of successfully integrating our recently acquired businesses.
Each of these acquisitions were completed and aligned well with our strategy of delivering consistent superior value and combined delivered over $0.50 a share in accretion for the year as expected.
In our cost management we did an outstanding job in 2015 reflecting very strong productivity gains.
Overall we were able to more than offset inflation by about $25 million.
We also made substantial progress on reducing our net debt.
Finally during the year we remained committed to returning cash to our stockholders.
We increased our dividend by 15% the sixth straight year of increases and over that time we have more than doubled the dividend.
And we repurchased more than $100 million of stock.
This strong performance on so many fronts is a great testament to the strength of Eastmans portfolio and the integration and scale that has been built over decades.
More importantly I am very fortunate to work with such a strong team of employees who consistently overcome challenges and find ways to deliver results for our stakeholders.
Now I hand the call over to Curt to cover the financial details for 2015 and then Ill come back to talk about 2016.
Thanks Mark; good morning everyone.
Since we have a lot to cover today Ill be brief with my comments.
Ill start with our fourth quarter corporate results on Slide 4.
We delivered solid earnings despite the many increasing challenges we faced during the quarter.
The decline in revenue largely reflected lower selling prices due to lower raw material and energy costs.
Operating earnings were down somewhat.
Positives included strong volume growth in Advanced Materials and strong operating margins in Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers.
Headwinds were low oil prices and the associated propane hedges which largely impacted Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates and lower volumes in Fibers.
Earnings per share was solid and included a lower tax rate year-over-year which reflected the full-year impact of the tax extenders enacted in December.
Next on Slide 5 looking at the full year we delivered outstanding results reflecting the strength and robustness of our strategy to transform to a specialty portfolio.
Sales revenue increased slightly as sales from recently acquired businesses more than offset lower selling prices which largely reflected lower raw material costs.
Operating earnings increased in three of our segments with particularly strong earnings growth in Advanced Materials.
Our operating margin for the year was 18% an increase of nearly 100 basis points compared to 2014.
Overall were very pleased with our results in a challenging business climate.
Moving next to the segment results beginning on Slide 6 Advanced Materials had an exceptional year as they continued to deliver on the elements of their strategy.
Sales revenue increased due to higher sales volume and sales of products of the acquired performance films business.
Offsets were currency and lower selling prices which reflected lower raw material costs particularly paraxylene for copolyesters.
Operating earnings increased more than $100 million or about 40% due to a number of factors: Volume growth and mixed improvement; volume from the acquisition; operational improvements; and improved spread.
The improved product mix was driven by increased sales of optical film solutions and premium interlayers.
The operating margin increased to roughly 17% from just over 12% in 2014.
These results reflect execution of a strategy over a number of years to improve the operating margin in this business and to achieve an appropriate return given the investments made.
We expect to build on this success going forward.
Moving next to Additives &amp; Functional Products on Slide 7 which had a solid year; the revenue increase was due to the impact of the Taminco acquisition.
This was partially offset by lower coatings and other formulated products selling prices which reflected lower raw material and energy costs as well as the impact of currency.
Operating earnings were up year-over-year reflecting both improved spread and the impact of the Taminco acquisition.
The business did a great job managing value in the face of a slower growth environment increased competitive rivalry and narrowing olefin spreads.
Moving next to Adhesives &amp; Plasticizers on Slide 8 for 2015 sales revenue declined primarily due to lower prices reflecting lower raw material costs and currency.
Volume was about flat as growth in non-phthalate plasticizers particularly in North America was offset by lower adhesives resins volume due to the lack of availability of raw materials early in the year as well some operational constraints.
Operating earnings increased as improved spread was partially offset by propane hedges and currency.
The operating margin increased to just under 20% as we did a good job of holding onto value through the year.
Now to Fibers on Slide 9 revenue declined mainly due to lower acetate tow and acetyl chemical sales volume.
The decline in tow volume was mainly attributed to customer destocking especially in China.
And the decline in acetyl chemicals volume was due to increased sales to the cellulose acetate flake joint venture in Kingsport.
Operating earnings were down year-over-year due to lower tow and acetyl chemicals volume.
Despite the challenge for lower volume the operating margin for the segment was 32%.
Ill finish the segment review with Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates on Slide 10.
Sales revenue decreased as lower selling prices and lower chemical and other intermediate sales volumes more than offset the impact of acquisitions.
For operating earnings we had a number of significant headwinds impacting results.
The significant decline in oil prices reduced the North America shale gas advantage.
And as the market became long in ethylene and propylene the drop in olefin prices outpaced the decline in oil further impacting margins.
Also slower than expected economic growth in Asia led to an increased level of competitive import threats to the U.S.
and Europe.
And the impact of propane hedges was significant for this segment.
These headwinds more than offset earnings from acquired businesses and commercial and productivity actions we took through the year.
While operating earnings declined for the year we did a good job managing through a challenging environment.
On Slide 11 Ill transition to the overview of cash flow and other financial highlights for 2015.
We did an excellent job of generating cash in 2015 with operating cash flow over $1.6 billion.
This is a new record for cash from operations as is our free cash flow of $960 million for the year.
Capital expenditures totaled $652 million below our previous expectations as we managed the pace of spend with the current economic environment while maintaining our growth investments.
We expect to be at a similar level in 2016.
Looking at the balance sheet net debt stands at $6.7 billion as of year-end reflecting almost $600 million in debt reduction for the year.
Our cash flow strong balance sheet and liquidity keep Eastman in a position of strength in an uncertain economy.
Our full-year dividend was $238 million and this included a 15% increase in the fourth quarter.
In addition we had $103 million in share repurchases through the year including $55 million in the fourth quarter.
The combination of regular increases in our dividend and share repurchases reflected a continued confidence in future earnings and cash flows.
And finally our effective tax rate for the year was approximately 25% which again includes the enactment of tax extenders during the fourth quarter as well as favorable geographic mix of earnings.
We expect the effect of tax rate for 2016 will be at a similar level if not better as we continue to pursue opportunities to reduce this rate further.
Overall a strong year of results given the challenging conditions.
And with that Ill turn it back over to Mark.
On Slide 13 Id like to transition to 2016 and share our key objectives for this year.
We are obviously in a challenging macro environment and are using every lever to create value for our shareholders.
In the next few slides Ill discuss some of these levers.
First our priority will be continued volume growth and mix upgrade in our specialties.
We are aggressively increasing our cost reduction activities and we are also taking our next steps in portfolio management and organizational design.
And we will return our strong free cash flow to shareholders.
On Slide 14 I wanted to provide you a quick view on our historical volume growth as the basis for our forward look.
Over the last five years we delivered 10% compounded volume growth.
Lets start with the foundation before our acquisitions.
The yellow line reflects volume growth from our heritage specialty businesses which you roughly see a 3% compounded growth.
And then we levered our strong free cash flow and very strong balance sheet to expand our connection to attractive end markets with high-quality specialty products for several attractive specialty acquisitions.
This organic growth both in heritage Eastman and within our acquisitions is a tribute to our management team on two fronts: One we are driving high growth and innovation platforms that is well above end market growth rates; and second we are doing excellent job of balancing price volume trade-offs in our core businesses.
Its a great story of organic growth and disciplined capital deployment.
Were also not waiting around for market growth.
We are focused on creating our own growth.
On Slide 15 you can see a depiction of how we execute our innovation and market development efforts.
On the vertical axis are our key world-class technology platforms.
And this is a combination of platforms that Eastman has had for decades cellulose esters; polyesters; oxos; and hydrocarbon resins and some that we recently acquired PVDs and alkylamines.
Across the horizontal axis are four key end markets where we are concentrating our growth efforts.
What you see is that we have a fairly concentrated set of initiatives that take advantage of our expertise in these platforms to help us further penetrate these attractive markets.
Some we have already mentioned this morning such as tire resins acoustic and heads-up inter-displays -- interlayers and new mobile device displays.
Others we have discussed in the past including Tritan our next generation copolyesters coatings and microfibers.
We are making great progress with the innovation and market development portfolio and I am committed to accelerating investment in and emphasis on these efforts because I believe it is the key to Eastmans long-term success.
We expect over the next three years that innovation and market development initiatives will add between 1% to 2% to overall Eastman revenue growth on a compounded basis and that operating earnings for these revenues will be well above corporate average.
Moving next to Slide 16 we also recognize that we are in a tough economic environment that will require aggressive cost management.
Over the last couple of years we have been able to offset inflation with productivity and cost reduction initiatives.
And in 2015 we were able to do a little bit more with over $25 million falling to the bottom line.
This year we know that in this very challenging environment we need to do much more.
We expect to double our productivity and cost reduction efforts so that theyre in the range of $200 million.
After offsetting inflation we project these combined efforts contribute about $0.50 per share to EPS this year.
And I want to emphasize that as we achieve these cost reductions we will continue to invest in our innovation and market development initiatives.
We have a great track record of cost management and Im highly confident we will manage and achieve these cost reduction targets for 2016.
That brings me to our outlook on Slide 17 and it starts with growth drivers that have been constant for us over the last six years.
We have a strong portfolio of specialty businesses that are well-positioned for growth.
They have delivered over the last six years and we expect that to continue into 16 and beyond.
In addition we expect that our innovative specialty products will continue to grow strongly improving product mix and accelerating overall earnings growth.
As I mentioned on the previous slide we are taking aggressive cost actions to add $0.50 a share.
In addition we will achieve further cost synergies from the acquisitions as we have guided in the past.
We are also looking at every other lever.
We see further improvements in tax as Curt mentioned and pension costs.
We also will repurchase shares with our industry-leading free cash flow after de-levering in the back half of the year.
All that said we face some increasing near-term challenges.
The further collapse in the price of oil recently has increased price pressures especially in our olefin and acetyl products.
Stagnant global economic growth combined with weakening Asian European currencies are increasing some competitive activity in some products.
And we further expect to see inventory destocking in Fibers in China.
In this challenging environment we will drive hard to deliver EPS in 2016 that approaches our 2015 EPS.
And we expect our EBITDA margins to be similar to 2015.
Finally we expect to deliver another strong year of free cash flow above $900 million.
Next on Slide 18 is announcement that we are improving our business structure which results in changes to the segments in which we report our financial results.
Principally we are making changes that better align our business model to drive long-term growth and support our continued transformation to specialty portfolio.
In part this is enabled by the completion of the Taminco integration.
This new structure should result in acceleration of growth opportunities and attractive markets.
This also enables us to reduce costs in a more streamlined structure.
And finally this improved reporting structure will result in less complexity and enhanced visibility for those tracking our performance.
On Slide 19 you can see this new structure.
The biggest changes is that we have moved from five segments to four with the Adhesives business moving to Additives &amp; Functional Products and the Plasticizer business moving to the new Chemical Intermediate segment.
Adhesives and AFP will enable us to better manage our businesses in combination with our great success of our tackifying resins going into tires.
We also see more opportunities in application development adhesives and we can leverage our world-class market development application development capability in AFP.
Plasticizers and distribution solvents from AFP will be better managed in Chemical Intermediates where we have commercial excellence in managing pricing and asset utilization in a highly competitive environment.
In addition there are various product line moves to enhance market connect.
This reporting structure is effective here in the first quarter.
And we plan to provide historical segment results on the new segment basis prior to releasing first-quarter earnings.
With these moves the more specialty businesses are now in Additives &amp; Functional Products and Advanced Materials and the significant majority of our oil exposure and olefins will now be in Chemical Intermediates.
Our 2016 earnings expectations for these segments are as follows: We expect another year of strong growth in Advanced Materials driven by volume and mix upgrades; Adhesive &amp; Functional Products is expected to remain stable despite a tough market with volume growth offsetting price pressures including Adhesives being modestly lower.
For Fibers were expecting declining prices due to lower pulp prices and weakening currencies which will be offset by cost actions we have taken.
Therefore the key variable is volume.
We expect continued destocking in China but we dont know yet how far itll go and we expect no more in the coming months.
For Chemical Intermediates we expect earnings to be lower given the collapse in the oil and the pressure on spreads in that business with the same trends impacting plasticizers.
And once again we believe this new business structure supports our strategy to transform towards a specialty portfolio.
As you know we have been on a long and committed journey to divest commodity businesses and additional specialties.
On Slide 20 Ill provide an update on our portfolio management efforts.
Having successfully integrated our attractive acquisitions in 2015 we are shifting our focus in 2016 towards portfolio optimization consistent with our long-term strategy.
Over the last few years weve been looking to divest our excess ethylene position that continues to be a source of earnings volatility.
These efforts have been constrained due to the pipeline dispute with Westlake which we have discussed previously.
With favorable rulings from the Texas Railroad Commission and the Appeals Court we believe we can now move forward with our efforts to divest the excess ethylene.
We are also pursuing strategic options for both excess ethylene and commodity olefin intermediates that are not essential to our specialty strategy and can be operationally segregated at the site.
Of course the specific scope may vary depending on buyer interest and valuation.
I also want to be clear that our integrated Texas site produces advantaged ethylene and propylene much of which we translate into our specialty derivatives and as such will remain a critical integrated stream within our portfolio.
We have hired an investment bank to restart the process to monetize our excess ethylene position and the other commodity olefin related product lines that are not essential to our long-term strategy.
This effort will be one of our top priorities in 2016 and well provide more details later in the year as it progresses.
On Slide 21 here are our expectations for cash generation.
As you can see on the bar chart we have a history of generating strong free cash flow particularly over the last five years.
This reflects the strength of our solid core businesses as well as the transformation of our portfolio.
Looking at 2016 we expect free cash flow to be greater than $900 million.
With this free cash flow we expect to continue deleveraging having reduced the debt by over $600 million in 2015 and we expect to complete our de-levering in 2016 to get to approximately $1 billion of debt reduction.
As a result weve also committed to our investors in past calls that we expect to fully utilize our free cash flow to pay an increasing dividend continue de-levering and repurchase shares.
So in summary on Slide 22 we have a strong portfolio of specialty businesses that we are confident in and we know that are going to drive volume growth this year and continue to drive volume growth into the future.
This organic set of initiatives our innovation our product mix improvement are essential to our strategy and they were essential in how we grew value last year this year and into the future.
We are committed to using every lever we have in this challenging environment including increasing our cost reduction efforts.
And we will return our strong free cash flow to stockholders.
So despite our short-term challenges this year Im confident well continue to deliver solid earnings growth in the long-term.
And Im looking forward to the questions on this call.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
Weve got a lot of people on the line this morning.
So I ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
With that Taylor were ready for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And well take our first question from David Begleiter with Deutsche Bank.
Mark on SFI it was a challenging Q4; how should we think about the earnings progression into Q1 and for the full year? This is Curt David.
Ill take that.
Its fair to say first half will be our toughest comp year-over-year especially the first quarter given the strong performance Specialty Fluids &amp; Intermediates had last year.
Also if you think about earnings trajectory in general our cost reduction efforts will help in first quarter but will be mostly in the subsequent quarters plus the deleverage in some other share repurchases in the second half of 2016 will help kind of the overall shaping of next year.
And specifically of SFI when I look at their run rate last year versus this year I would say right now the way things are shaping up what you saw in third quarter is more representative of what you might expect for the year.
And just Curt and Mark just on Slide 16 on the cost actions can you give any more concrete examples besides Workington reduction where else will cost actions come from plants being closed people being let go anything more concrete you can add? Sure.
So we saw things developing and knew that we needed to take action on cost like most people in this industry.
And so weve done a restructuring program where were going to reduce non-operating labor about 7% David.
In addition theres a bunch of other non-labor spend items in SG&amp;A and R&amp;D that we have that we are going to be able to reduce some spend on and then there is a wide range of manufacturing cost improvement throughout our plants that we are pursuing.
In addition of course there are things like the plant closure in Workington.
But that would be additive to the $0.50 a share.
That Workington closure was not included in that $100 million.
So thats an additional plus.
Id also emphasize that youve got quite a bit of cost synergies continuing to flow in from the acquisitions on top of that $0.50 a share.
So in collection it adds up to a pretty significant number.
And well take our next question from Frank Mitsch with Wells Fargo.
When Curt was talking about the various segments he did talk a fair amount about the interplay of pricing dropping due to the raw materials coming down and that always is kind of a signal of more commodity type behavior rather than specialty type behavior.
So Mark as you think about your portfolio and you went through this exercise to re-segmenting to four what percent do you see being commodity versus specialty in your mind? And I know you mentioned that youre going to restart the ethylene sale process.
Are there other parts of the portfolio that you see as perhaps not fitting longer term into EMN? Sure Frank.
First on the specialty part with the re-segmentation you should think about the parts of the products that we have that are commodity oriented have been concentrated in Chemical Intermediates.
So the other segments really dont have anything we consider to be commodities.
The reality is that even in specialty businesses when you have oil prices drop from $100 to $30 and you are oil-based your customer sort of notice and expect that some of that raw material benefit is going to be shared with them.
So throughout last year we realized obviously significant raw material benefits in our specialties and our commodities.
And the pace at which the price is shared with them is very different.
So in the commodities it happens relatively quickly.
In the specialties you still give back value to your customers.
If you dont do that and if you hold onto price very aggressively which you can certainly do in a specialty you set yourself up for a volume cliff in the future because even if youre a proprietary product and we have a number of ones where were the only manufacturer in the world if you dont share some of that value at an appropriate level you put your customers on a jihad [ph] to find new suppliers whether its an alternative material or a smaller competitor you might have where youre a very strong leader in a specialty business.
So we do that.
We have probably the most sophisticated commercial excellence and pricing systems I think in the industry where we make these price volume trade-offs all year long to make sure that were sharing value but were also maintaining to be able to grow volume in the long-term.
So over the year that plays out and prices come down to some degree and you take that into this year and thats a bit of a headwind versus how you started last year.
But no I dont think our specialties are commoditizing at all.
And what I love about most of our technology platforms is we have next generation products building off of the same assets whether its next generation of acoustics in heads-up display the Tritan product replacing some copolyesters and a series of opportunities going on to improve Crystex with our next generation Crystex technology etc.
So we never sit around waiting for people to try and replicate as we are always moving the ball down the field and advancing what we offer to our customers.
So no overall I would say the portfolio feels great on that front.
What I did say though in my prepared remarks is we are expanding the scope of what were considering selling beyond excess ethylene.
So we are looking at what other olefins that have commodity behavior in Chemical Intermediates a lot of volatility a lot of distraction for investors that is not essential to our long-term strategy so they are not critical intermediates for our specialties.
And so were going to look at how much of that we can package with excess ethylene and find a buyer who values that olefin portfolio and their strategy.
And following up on this theme I really appreciate the Slide 14 with the volume growth of 3% in your AAA businesses.
And then on top of that I believe youre expecting 1% to 2% innovation market development as well.
So that would almost imply kind of a 4 plus percent improvement in that area.
My sense is that given the economic backdrop in 2016 that would not be the case.
How are you thinking about the potential volumes in the AAA side in 2016? So Frank I think when we look at what is now the AA I guess were moving up in the ranks those two segments we still expect solid volume growth.
Obviously the economy is going to do what it does and well track with it especially in the end markets we serve from transportation to B&amp;C and consumables being our three large end markets.
And I think those all have attractive growth trends this year from what we can see.
So I think well grow with those markets.
So I think well have volume growth that will be like history.
And within that I think well get some mix uplift that will be these high growth specialty products that arent necessarily huge volumes but they are very attractive to earnings and they provide a nice lever to earnings.
But we dont see a volume problem in this year.
We think it continues to be solid.
We think AM and AFP will have good volume growth.
We think AFPs volume growth will be better this year than last year when we look at as last year wasnt as much as we wanted of course.
So we do see some places in specific areas where were improving our market share position where well get better volume growth there too.
And well take our next question from Vincent Andrews with Morgan Stanley.
Just trying to get a sense on the earnings bridge.
You did 7.28 in 2015 bringing $0.50 of cost savings.
In your segment breakdown you basically told us that AM is going to be up; AFP is going to be stable; Fibers there is a question mark around volume; and then youve got the oil spread issues.
So can you just help us what do you think the FX headwind is in 2016? And then when you say youre going to approach last year does that mean youre going to be north of 7 or do you think youre actually going to get close to 7.28? And I guess what Im really asking you is how much risk do you think there is on spread side of things and is that really the true wildcard for results next year or this year? So Vincent thanks for the question.
And its obviously a very important one.
As we look at it we do see a lot of tailwinds as you noted.
Good volume growth mix upgrade the cost reduction actions the acquisition synergies improvements in tax pension costs as well as share count.
So there are a number of very attractive tailwinds for us.
And there are really two principal issues as youve identified that are the headwinds.
So how much spread compression do we take this year versus last year in this volume on Fibers? When it comes to the spread issue I think that theres predominately that spread from compression is going to be in Chemical Intermediates but you also feel a little bit of an AFP which still will have some olefins in that segment and we expect prices to come off a bit in Adhesives where things have been relatively tight last year.
And so well have a little bit of price give back but better volume growth this year netting each other but somewhat down.
But the majority of the issue is really a spread issue.
And then of course weve put in an expectation of some additional destocking in Fibers.
Theres a lot of moving parts when it comes to oil the economy the uncertainty in destocking and I can combine those into a variety of different scenarios.
The way I would suggest you all think about it is were somewhere between stable to 2015 EPS and down 5% when I combine all those different factors together.
And those I think give us that sort of a range.
Specific to FX Ill let Curt answer that question.
Yes Vince just the way I think about currency itself right now the currencies weve seen predominately our exposure is euro is slightly down compared to what we saw on average for 2015.
Maybe the best way to look at is if you think about just the net impact of hedges whether that was the cost of the propane hedges or the benefit of the currency hedges net-net that was probably a $0.60 headwind for us for the year.
For 16 we think the net impact of these changes in hedges net-net is going to be about flat.
This is a little lower than we were thinking before primarily due to the class of oil and the underlying impact on our propane hedges but then that $0.60 impact really rolls off in 17 and 18.
And just building on that comment I think its important for investors to understand that a lot of what were seeing right now we view as very much short-term pressure not long-term pressure.
We dont think there is anything undermining our long-term growth strategy of delivering attractive earnings growth in 17 and beyond.
To Curts point if oil and currency stay where they are at well just get a natural $0.60 lift in 17 and 18 -- $0.60 a share lift as those roll off.
If oil prices go up our earnings will improve just as theyve pressured it down.
So either way you look at youve got earnings growth coming in 17 and 18 depending on your view about oil prices because I think its likely theyll be better than where they are today.
In addition to that youve got continued volume growth next year.
Youve got this transition of spread expansion into 2015 normalizing a bit of those spreads in 2016.
That is a two-year event when youre adjusting from $100 to $30 oil but you dont have that in 2016 anymore; that will be behind us.
And then on top of that weve got continued ways to improve costs and very importantly we have a very strong free cash flow.
And well be repurchasing shares starting in the back half of this year and strongly in 17.
So while were certainly disappointed about some of these challenges were enduring right now we are focused on driving long-term growth and taking actions that make sense to maintain that volume growth long-term and deliver strong earnings growth beyond this year in 17 18 and beyond.
And well take our next question from Duffy Fischer with Barclays Capital.
Question on just the bridge between earnings and free cash flow.
So other than the share count changing which should advantage earnings if Im looking at a linear relationship is there anything else that should affect the difference between free cash flow and earnings in that bridge? I think if you look at that bridge the only thing that probably is going to be a little different two aspects: One is were not anticipating the release of working capital as great as we experienced in 2015 as we go into 2016 just because of just the way the raws have fallen on a relative basis; plus theres always some difference in years between when you make your tax payments et cetera.
But Im very confident in our ability to generate meaningful cash flow in 2016.
And I think its just a matter of how much higher over $900 million its going to be.
And then in Q4 AF&amp;P also saw price down about 10% which was probably the price movement that surprised me the most.
Is that still just the olefins affecting that segment or were there some other spreads in there that got compressed as well? It was principally just the olefins.
Weve been doing a great job of holding onto value all year long but we came to the point where at some places we needed to reduce prices to remain competitive.
Its a tough comp versus where prices were at $100 oil in the fourth quarter of 14.
So it was just that.
And well take our next question from P.J.
Juvekar with Citi.
It just seems like you were hurt more by the ethylene change than the propylene change given your spot ethylene exposure.
Would you agree with that? On the propylene side how much give backs did you have to do in the coatings area? So on the propylene side propylene prices also came off through the year and when you look at cracking spreads they obviously came in on the propylene side if you look at the first half versus the second half of the year and our prices tracked with it.
And were taking in that lower propylene price into this year.
So certainly there is a first half headwind this year versus last year when it comes to propylene.
The ethylene is sort of the opposite story.
Ethylene prices were relatively good in the first half of last year and then obviously came off pretty significantly in the back half of last year.
So its sort of the flip story there on sort of where it goes.
But we expect ethylene prices to improve into the second quarter this year.
As this very large cracking maintenance schedule takes place this year that should sort of move ethylene prices back up a bit.
Were not expecting it to go back to last year but we certainly expect improvements versus right now so moving parts there.
On the coating side our customers there have done a pretty good job -- on the coating side we certainly saw our customers do a very good job of working with us and getting their prices down on the propane related derivatives and getting a benefit from that.
A quick question on tow.
You took a step down in 4Q in terms of year-over-year comparison.
Can you discuss some of the declines? You said declines in China.
Can you discuss tow declines in China and outside of China? Sure.
So with the tow business -- first Ill take outside of China which is the more straightforward story.
What weve seen there is that destocking come to an end and we expect volumes to be relatively stable into this year.
Outside of China we have seen prices come off some with the reduction in pulp prices and our competitors in Europe and Asia Pacific using their weakening currency as a way to attempt to chase volume.
We of course defended our market position but the prices did come down a bit.
With all the cost actions were taking in that business weve been able to offset that pricing decline that were seeing outside of China.
So really it is about a pure question around what does volume do in China at this point.
And what Id say is in the -- from what we can see the Chinese National Tobacco Company made progress in their destocking in 2015 but did not achieve their objectives in going as far as they wanted to.
They have to walk a tight balance in delivering their tax revenue increase for the year which they did do which limits how far they can go in reducing production and achieving their inventory management goals.
And so they are going to do another round of that this year in trying to work that inventory down.
Its important to keep in mind as well that when you see this sort of volume issue in 15 and 16 a good portion of it is also the CNTC backward integrating with tow suppliers.
So we did our JV in the end of 2014 with CNTC and that is what led to a certain amount of volume decline in 15.
And Daicel did a JV which is going to be part of why volume goes down this year.
So you shouldnt misinterpret that as a decline in primary demand.
We dont see any issues with primary demand and cigarette [ph] consumption going to a decline.
This is all about inventory management and some backward integration.
The good news on the backward integration front is that we dont expect any other tow backward integration by CNTC until the 2019 2020 timeframe.
So that wont be an issue.
Again as we go into 17 and 18 another upside for us or 17 and 18 versus what were seeing this year.
So overall Id say we expect some decline and were just going to have to wait to see how it goes with the final conversations and contract negotiation.
And we will take our next question from Jim Sheehan with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Mark could you give us outlook in 2016 on the Crystex business? Sure.
Crystex has been a great business for us.
Obviously its a challenging market condition with primary demand not being robust but we saw volume growth last year.
And in particular we saw that volume growth really pick up in the second half of last year relative to the first half.
And we expect that volume growth will continue into this year.
So from a demand point of view everything seems to be on track.
On the pricing side its a competitive business.
We have a bunch of little small competitors in Asia we have been dealing with since 2012 and were seeing some price pressure there.
Id say in one place our Japanese competitor is using their weakening yen to sort of chase volume where were once again defending our market position so they are just giving up potential earnings growth but -- and improving margins.
But I think its all playing out sort of as we planned.
We feel very good about our new technology; were bringing on our new process technology and our retrofit in Germany this quarter; and were on track to develop the new plant and build the new plants and have it on line at the end of -- in the beginning of 2017.
And that will significantly improve our cost structure for competing in this business.
So feel good about the business.
And then you made some comments on ethylene divestitures and how the pipeline dispute was holding that process up.
It looks like you feel more confident that this process is moving forward in 2016.
Could you just evaluate the pipeline dispute and where it stands and how quickly you think you could wrap that up? Eastman has -- and Mark mentioned Eastman has won every case to-date on this dispute whether its those Texas Railroad Commission rulings or their favorable opinion on their Appeals Court.
So it really speaks to the strength of our position.
So we recognize there may be a few more steps to completely resolve this dispute but were confident that we can move forward with these efforts to divest the excess ethylene at this time.
And the timing of resolving these disputes is very similar to the timeline we think its going to take to complete a divestiture.
And well take our next question from Jeff Zekauskas with JPMorgan.
In the fourth quarter your EBIT in Specialty Fluids was $20 million and I dont know how much of your -- how much of the hedge penalty you had or how many hedges you unwound.
But in general oil prices have come down a lot.
So is that $20 million your run rate on a quarterly basis for 2016 in the current environment or in some way is that an unrepresentative number and could you explain why its unrepresentative if it is? Jeff I mentioned that earlier in a previous question do not think the fourth quarter is representative of this business segment.
When I think about the moving parts that youve highlighted we think it will be down as Mark mentioned in 2016.
But its probably more comparable if I look at the best quarter of last year its more comparable to kind of a third quarter normal rate as were going into 2016.
And so why was it so much lower than the third quarter? Is that because there was an above average amount of hedges that were unwound there? Jeff and Ill end it with this.
There is a plenty of items that always affect the fourth quarter; sometimes its your schedule of shutdowns; sometimes its going to be the impact of the seasonality; and sometimes it is going to just be competitive behavior in that particular quarter.
So those are some of the moving parts.
As we best see it we know its going to come down but fourth quarter is not representative of what were expecting this share at this point.
We also saw some destocking in volume Some destocking? There was just a variety of individual elements that added up to that number making it a bit more sort of extreme than what is representative.
And then lastly you have very good cash flow and free cash flow generation for next year.
You talked about a $200 million productivity gain.
Are there non-recurring charges that you need to enact in order to capture that $200 million? And if you do have to take them how large are they? As youd expect Mark mentioned some of the labor reductions of that restructuring.
You do anticipate a restructuring charge in 2016 that will have a cash impact.
Well highlight that into our adjustments and that number is roughly about $50 million.
$50 million.
And then of the businesses that you want to sell like if you totaled them all up whats the revenue and EBITDA order of magnitude? Jeff as we said were still working through the scoping of what our divestiture process our strategic options will be.
Thats going to highly depend on just a variety of factors including what the buyer slate may be interested in.
Were just going to work on that out over the next several months.
Yes.
On that point I just want to be clear with folks because Im sure this question will come up a lot.
The reality is we want to maintain some flexibility because in the olefins world each potential buyer actually has a slightly different interest in what they might want in our portfolio.
And so to maximize shareholder value in what we sell were going to keep that flexibility in there and be able to sort of address what the interest might be.
And well take our question from Bob Koort with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
This is Ryan Berney on for Bob.
I just wanted to ask within your EPS guidance that youve given which sounds like itll be a little bit below where you were in 2015.
You gave this really nice breakout where you break out price and volume for us both kind of by the segments but also for the company as a whole.
So if you were to take a step back and think about what youre imputing in your guidance for 2016 what kind of overall Eastman Corp.
volume price assumption are you assuming? Well to be honest with you I would just have you go through segment by segment and do that analysis.
I think what youre going to see is the volume growth in the Advanced Materials as well as AFP.
Youll probably see solid volumes in SFI.
Thats going to be more of a margin pressure.
And Fibers volume is going to be impacted by the final imports into China.
Pricing were going to see where oil goes.
And then maybe you can help me understand the ethylene issue a little bit better.
My understanding is that you are running about 70% propane feed through your crackers and you still also have one of your crackers thats shut down.
So when you think about divestitures would you be -- I mean can you help me understand would you be moving away the asset you closed down or would you potentially be putting any capital to work to move towards a heavier even propane feed in order to kind of get the propylene you need? I guess Im just kind of figure out how you get rid of that ethylene without also losing some of the propylene that you need.
The good news there are solutions they are.
And so as weve talked about in the past as weve tried to monetize our excess ethylene weve always indicated we do not necessarily need to be the owner of the smaller crackers many times we call the type 3 crackers.
Nothing has changed in that regards.
Our larger cracker is really heavily integrated into our overall site operations and is really critical to our specialty derivative production.
So as we go through the strategic evaluation and we will ensure the reliability integrity and the safety of this cracker is preserved to support our specialty derivative product lines.
And this is consistent with our strategy again to reduce volatility but not compromising our specialty growth.
On the propylene Id also remind you yes we are a net buyer today but as we look forward to the start-up of the PDH unit with Enterprise well be kind of fully integrated with our propylene.
But as we look down the road we can think about different options on how these crackers may play out in our strategic options.
And well be able to adjust appropriately.
And well take our next question from Laurence Alexander with Jefferies.
Just a quick one on your transportation and construction breakouts for the special businesses can you break out your current thinking about how much is maintenance versus first fit for OEM and what youre seeing on the OEM trends in the very near term like the next three six months? Ill take a shot at it but Id say our customers are probably more qualified to comment.
On the tire side 75% of that business is roughly replacement.
Its important to remember that were levered to commercial tires much more so than passenger tires when it comes to the amount of Crystex for tires 10 times in a commercial tire versus passenger.
So what we see there is like the globe the economy getting better in the U.S.
improving in Europe and it is still growing in China by the way just not as fast as wed all like.
And so thats all sort of driving the need for replacement tires especially increased construction activity in North America and even some increased construction activity in Europe that were seeing.
So thats how Id talk about the tire side of it.
On coatings when you look at transportation and building construction we expect a good year in North America which is where we have our largest market share with the increasing construction rate of housing coming for us in 16.
And we also saw decent growth rates in Europe.
So thats all feeling relatively good.
China is a bit of a wildcard but still some growth.
When it comes to interlayers they had a phenomenal year last year in automotive as well as a good architectural year in Europe.
And on the automotive side we grew significantly faster than the market for a couple of reasons.
One is were seeing the addressable market grow because a lot of company -- OEMs are moving to putting laminated glass in the side windows and even the sunroofs so the market is just getting bigger relative to OEM build rate.
In addition a lot more use of acoustics both for quieting in the cabin as well as light weighting the windows and heads-up displays growing very strongly with the whole mobility trend.
To figure out the next trend youve got to go to the consumer electronics show for cars and the heads-up display is a critical part of all those technology trends.
So all of thats allowing us to grow much faster than the OEM build rate which is about 60% 70% of the total for interlayers.
So each business is a different story but all of them are good ones.
And then if we roll all of them up for the two As over the next three four years what you see as your mix tailwind for margins when you have a lot of moving parts in terms of the hedges and market trends but what do you just see as a tailwind just from margin uplift if any from mix shift? I think what youre going to see this is Curt in Advanced Materials youve already seen what has happened with their different elements of improving mix getting volume growth and fixed cost leverage.
And so they are at a 17% operating margin so I think theyll continue to grow from that.
On the Additives &amp; Functional Products I think over the next several years they can maintain their margins if not slightly improve them through that mix of group.
And well take our next question from Mike Sison with KeyBanc.
I was wondering it might be helpful if you total up all the headwinds that youre facing in 2016 it seems like its going to be well over $1 maybe even more.
And is that kind of what youre overcoming with your specialty businesses and what you can control internally? Im not sure Ive done all of the exact math that Mike youre doing but we can compare notes like we always do over time.
But I would say yes were facing significant headwinds and so we are offsetting that with again growth in Advanced Materials stability in AFP.
Were also then seeing the cost reduction actions.
Id also remind that were also going to finish deleveraging during the course of 2016 as well as look at repurchasing shares mostly weighted towards the second half of the year.
So those will also help overcome some of that headwind.
And then one quick one Mark.
Eastmans done a nice job of kind of locking away from more commodity businesses and adding specialty businesses.
Unfortunately the commodity business seems to continue to weigh on your earnings results probably more than you might have thought.
What are your thoughts -- what do you think you need to do with the portfolio now to maybe reposition it to continue to lessen those exposures? I know you want to pay down debt but is acquisitions something that you would consider to continue to improve the portfolio? I think what we want to do is what we just announced which is get the volatile bit out of the portfolio.
So going to four segments concentrating the olefins in one segment where we can better manage that business and the volatility in it day to day to make sure we capture the best value in the current market situation.
Thats why we pulled the distribution solvents out of AFP and put plasticizers in there.
It also allows us to look at all the options for what is best divested from this portfolio that certainly is a distraction for investors having a disproportionate impact on our valuation and allow us to focus on our specialty strategy.
Because -- youre right last year we did a great job of growing our specialties.
It was why we delivered earnings growth and were going to do it again this year and beyond.
And thats where we should be spending our time and focusing our efforts.
When it comes to acquisitions as I said in the second quarter call and the third quarter call last year were not looking for large M&amp;A.
Were looking to focus on growing our platforms that we have.
We have a lot of great organic growth initiatives kicking into gear already and ones that are about to come especially in AFP.
Those were a little bit behind in the cycle relative to Advanced Materials.
So.
youre going to hear a lot more stories about that as we go forward.
But were not looking for any large M&amp;A.
Its always possible to find some bolt-on M&amp;A that might be attractive that dramatically improves the business were in like we did last year in Advanced Materials with our Commonwealth acquisition but our focus right now is generating cash flow and repurchasing shares.
And well take our next question from Aleksey Yefremov with Nomura.
How did Taminco products do in the fourth quarter and was there any change in competitive intensity or volumes there? Taminco had a great year and a good quarter.
So overall they did as we expected.
Volumes held together nicely.
You saw strength in things like crop protection for the year as well as personal care doing well.
Obviously theres some pressure in soybean and corn-related functional mean demand with all the drama in the ag industry but thats a relatively small percentage of their total revenue.
And we took some hits of course in some of our products going into down-hole applications on the energy side but a lot of that was offset by gas cleanup sales doing quite well on the downstream part of that business for us.
So volumes held in well and it came out as we expected.
Margins also are fine.
The only two hits weve had in that business is currency obviously like everything else and then some of the methanol that we produce from our advantage contract obviously is feeling spread pressure relative to how methanol prices have come down.
And if I could add Mark on top of that what I also like about Taminco is we have completed the integration.
We achieved about $25 million in cost synergies in 2015.
We expect that to be about $50 million of cost synergies as well as we now believe we will have some good tax synergies that will help our effective tax rate in 2016.
So again not only is that a good reflection of good integration by both teams its also the business -- the team is responding to tough business climates to help our businesses whether its Taminco or heritage Eastman.
And as a follow-up does your guidance include buybacks? And if so how much? The guidance you could assume there will be some buybacks weighted mostly towards the second half of the year and so some of that would be included in that guidance.
But that will be more of a benefit as we go into 2017 because youll get the full effect of those buybacks plus how we deploy our cash in 2017.
Well take our final question from John Roberts with UBS.
Congratulations on moving forward.
We had another chemical company write off an unfavorable raw material contract this quarter.
You havent been able to do that with your propane contracts.
Is that just due to how hedge accounting works or is it simply because it would just improve the optics and there is no net present value to doing it? In this case John it is purely the accounting because its a cash flow hedge.
Even if we settled those hedges today and spent the cash Id still have to recognize the impact and earnings over the cash flow associated with the purchases.
Okay.
So its more an accounting issue than it is an NPV issue? Yes.
Okay.
Thanks again for joining us this morning.
A web replay and a replay in downloadable mp3 format will be available on our website later this morning.
Have a great day.
And this concludes todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.