Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources 2012 First Quarter Results Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Mark Papa.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing first quarter 2012 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast including those for the Eagle Ford and Bakken may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release in Investor Relations page of our website.
With me this morning are Bill Thomas President; Gary Thomas COO; Tim Driggers Vice President and CFO; and Maire Baldwin Vice President Investor Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website last night and we included second quarter and full year 2012 guidance in yesterday's press release.
This morning I'll discuss topics in the following order: I'll initially review our first quarter 2012 net income and discretionary cash flow then I'll provide operational results and our 2012 business plan.
Tim Driggers will then discuss financials and capital structure and I'll follow with our macro view and hedge position and finish with concluding remarks.
As outlined in the press release for the first quarter 2012 EOG reported net income of $324 million or $1.20 per diluted share.
For investors who focus on non-GAAP net income to eliminate mark-to-market impacts and certain nonrecurring items as outlined in the press release EOG's first quarter 2012 adjusted net income was $317.5 million or $1.17 per diluted share.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP discretionary cash flow EOG's DCF for the first quarter was $1.3 billion.
I'll now address our operational results and key plays.
During the first quarter all 3 of our production categories exceeded the midpoint of our guidance.
Our total crude and condensate production was up 49% year-over-year and total liquids were up 48% year-over-year.
Additionally the midpoint of our second quarter total crude and condensate guidance projects 42% year-over-year growth and 5% sequential growth.
Our first quarter North American natural gas volumes declined 9% year-over-year which is consistent with our projections.
Total company first quarter production from all sources was up 10% year-over-year.
Our aggregate unit costs were in line with projections.
For the full year 2012 we have increased our total company liquids growth target from 30% to 33% consisting of 33% crude and condensate growth and 32% NGL growth.
The higher liquids growth is a result of stronger Eagle Ford and Bakken production.
This increases are our total company production growth target from the previous 5.5% to 7%.
We have not changed our full year CapEx estimate.
As you know by now we believe that total company production per debt adjusted share is a useless metric given the current 42:1 oil to gas price ratio.
EOG's focus is on year-over-year increases in EPS EBITDAX and DCF and our path to achieve this goal is strong crude oil growth.
In the first quarter 2012 our year-over-year increase in GAAP EPS was 131% non-GAAP EPS increased 72% adjusted EBITDAX growth was 39% and DCF increased 39%.
This is on top of the peer leading growth that we posted in these same metrics for the full year 2011 versus 2010 that I articulated on our year-end earnings call.
For the first quarter 80% of our total company wellhead revenues emanated from liquids.
In North America 85% of wellhead revenues came from liquids.
Of these liquids revenues 87% are from crude and condensate and only 13% from NGLs.
This strong liquids revenue and volume growth is primarily generated by our 4 large horizontal domestic oil and liquids plays which I'll now discuss starting with the Eagle Ford.
The Eagle Ford continues to be our 800-pound gorilla in terms of crude oil growth and we still believe our position is the largest domestic net oil discovery in 40 years and generates the highest direct ATROR of any current large hydrocarbon play.
We continue to be largest crude oil producer in the play with 77 000 Boe per day average net production for March 90% of which was liquids.
Our press release again contains multiple new well results with IPs for individual wells in the 2 000 to 3 000 barrel oil per day range.
Note that these are oil IPs and if we included NGLs and natural gas the barrel oil equivalent per day rates would be even higher because our oil IPs are much higher than those reported by offset operators.
I've received several investor questions asking whether we're testing our wells on wide open chokes to generate artificially high oil rates.
The simple answer is no.
These are flow tests into our normal production equipment with a normal choke in the wellhead.
We think the high initial rates are simply indicative of better wells as attested by our 49% year-over-year organic crude oil and condensate growth rate.
I'll now discuss 6 key points regarding the Eagle Ford.
First last quarter we advised you that 65 to 90 acre downspacing was successful and we'd increased the potential net recoverable reserve estimate from 900 million to 1.6 billion Boes.
Now that we have an additional 90 days of production history we're even more comfortable with these downspacing conclusions.
We're now testing space or tighting -- tighter than the current 65 to 90 acres i.e.
40 acres to determine if further densifying will be viable to increase the recovery factor and we'll likely have some results by year end.
Second we continue to see an improvement in well performance from recent wells compared to wells completed just a year ago.
This is likely due to better fracs and better placement of our laterals.
This is occurring across essentially all our acreage.
We've certainly seen this in our more prolific acreage where a year ago we were highlighting wells with 1 500 barrel oil per day IP rates.
And today in those same areas the IPs are 2 500 to 3 000 barrels of oil per day.
These 2 500 to 3 000 barrel oil per day rates are holding up and have averaged 30-day rates of 1 500 barrel oil per day.
We're also making these type of improvements in areas with lesser quality rock.
With the success in downspacing we have identified at least 3 200 additional locations to drill.
Based on the 300 net wells we plan to drill this year this gives us an 11-year inventory.
The reason we're not accelerating the drilling of this unusually large well inventory is the technological improvements we're making.
If we're making better wells than we were a year ago who's to say we may not make even better wells a year from now? So why rush to drill wells that may not be technically optimum? We're closely focused on balancing the present value of this asset versus this technical well improvement.
And you'll hear more about this in subsequent quarters.
We've reduced the number of drilling days per well due to learning curve efficiencies and now need fewer rigs to drill the targeted 300 wells.
Relative to the first quarter our Eagle Ford drilling activity will be less frenetic for the remainder of the year as we reduce our rig count from the current 26 to 23 rigs.
Third I continue to be impressed with the consistency of this play across the trend.
We don't get a lot of geologic or reservoir surprises and the few surprises we do get are generally more upside than downside.
Fourth.
Now that our Wisconsin sand plant is operational we're currently using 100% self-sourced sand in this play and saving about $500 000 a well.
Because our sand is cheaper our engineers are experimenting with bigger fracs to see the effect on initial flow rate and long-term reserves.
Fifth.
During the past year I've highlighted the possibility of product takeaway restrictions but so far we've been able to dodge these bottleneck bullets.
We expect Enterprise to commission their new oil pipeline and gas processing plant next month.
So we think the go-forward risk of takeaway curtailments has been considerably reduced.
And sixth.
In early 2013 we expect to commence a dry gas injection pilot to determine whether this enhanced oil recovery technique will improve our current estimated 6% recovery factor.
We expect to have preliminary results in late 2013.
To summarize the Eagle Ford it's given us a lot of upside surprises so far and we'll continue to develop it at a technically optimal pace.
I'll now shift to the Bakken Three Forks.
Each of our 2011 quarterly calls had a business-as-usual tone for our Bakken Three Forks asset even though we continue to be the largest Bakken oil producer in North Dakota.
However we've recently generated exciting and very significant results in 3 different parts of the play indicating we have more potential upside and growth opportunities than we've previously indicated.
The 3 focus areas are: First in the last quarter we mentioned early success in our partial core area with 320-acre downspacing compared to our original 640-acre spacing.
We recently drilled 3 additional 320-acre downspaced wells and all are successful with IP rates ranging from 992 to 1 393 barrels of oil per day.
Working interest in these wells vary from 51% to 61%.
Additionally production from the offsetting original 640-acre wells has doubled after the downspaced won [ph] after completions.
The typical 640 acre well that had been online 4 to 5 years was producing 100 to 200 barrels of oil per day before the downspaced well was drilled and is currently making 200 to 400 barrels of oil per day.
This gives us production gain from both the new infill wells and the older producing wells.
Based on these results we'll implement 320 acre downspacing throughout our core area and we'll also test 160 acre downspacing.
In our Bakken Lite area our original development plan was on 320 acres.
And by next quarter we'll have some 160 acre downspacing results.
In summary the downspacing is working and the reserve impact will likely be larger than the 50 million net barrels of oil we indicated on the February call.
Second we continue to achieve excellent results in our Antelope Extension area which is 25 miles southwest of our core area.
Both the Bakken and Three Forks are productive in this acreage.
We've recently drilled a group of Clarks Creek wells.
4 wells were drilled in the Three Forks formation and had IP rates of 926 1 393 1 455 and 3 415 barrels of oil per day plus 1 million to 3 million per day of rich gas.
A Bakken well we recently drilled in this same area had an IP rate of 2 300 barrels of oil per day with similarly associated rich gas.
We have 100% working interest in all these wells.
These results are better than we expected.
Third in Far Eastern Montana and Western North Dakota in our Diamond Point and Stateline areas we've recently completed 7 wells that IPed at rates between 540 and 1 100 barrels of oil per day.
We have an average 63% working interest in this area.
All 7 wells have high rock quality that we expected and this opens up a brand new large development area for us where we have identified over 200 drilling locations.
Additionally in late April we commenced 2 waterflood pilots in our Core Parshall Field to try to improve our current approximately 8% recovery factor and we expect to have preliminary results by year-end 2012.
In summary we're much more excited than we were a year ago about our remaining Bakken and Three Forks potential.
Moving to our Wolfcamp and Leonard plays.
Our press release highlighted some individual well results which are consistent with previous quarters.
Because of the timing of our pattern drilling we expect our 2012 production from these plays to be back-end loaded.
We're still experimenting with the optimum well spacing and expect we'll have more specific detail regarding these plays later in the year.
The 2 most asked investor questions we've received regarding the Wolfcamp are one is more than one interval productive? And 2 why are EOG's indicated 280 Mboe per well NAR reserve estimate smaller than those quoted by offset operators? To-date most of our success has been in the middle Wolfcamp interval but we do have 2 positive results from the upper interval.
Regarding per well reserves in our February IR presentation we used an example of a well with a low net revenue interest to EOG that was not comparable to peers who report gross reserves.
On a gross 8 8 [ph] spaces our typical Wolfcamp per well EUR is approximately 430 Mboe.
I'll also note that although university wells noted in the IR slide we posted last night have lower initial production rates than in past quarters.
That's because these wells tested against -- flowing against high line pressures.
We consider that these wells are typical and have typical reserves to wells that we've reported in previous quarters even though the IP rates are lower because of the higher back pressure.
Shifting to our Barnett Combo play.
We continue to expect this to be our second largest liquids growth contributor in 2012 and we've highlighted typical wells in the press release.
In the first quarter we expanded the combo play with successful step out wells in 2 different directions.
This play continues to slowly expand year after year.
We plan to complete 200 net combo wells this year.
And year-to-date well results are on track with expectations.
I will note that we might have a possible gas processing pinch point in the June time frame.
It will be touch and go for a month or so to see if we can add processing capacity quickly enough to handle our increasing rich gas volumes from this particular area.
In the Wyoming Powder River basin we continue to have success with our horizontal drilling program in the Turner sandstone.
Two recent wells are the Arbalest 59-3601H which tested at 412 barrels of oil per day with 2.2 million cubic feet a day of rich gas.
And the Arbalest 29-23H which tested at 208 barrels of oil per day with 1.6 million cubic feet a day of rich gas.
We have approximately 93% working interest in these wells.
We continue to be bullish regarding our 240 000 net acres in the Powder River basin.
The basin has multiple stack pays similar to the Permian Basin all of which contained oil rich gas.
We've had great results in the Turner sands and we'll be testing other zones in addition to the Turner before year end.
Regarding other North American oil plays we recently completed a nice Niobrara well in Laramie County Wyoming.
The Jubilee 6904 [ph] well produced 460 barrels of oil per day.
After a few weeks online we have 100% working interest.
In the mid-continent we continue to generate consistent results from our Marmaton and Cleveland plays.
Four recent Marmaton wells IPed at 470 to 770 barrels of oil a day each.
We have 61% to 94% working interest in these wells.
Two nice 51% working interest Cleveland wells recently IPed at 490 and 560 barrels of oil per day.
We're also continuing to look for a new greenfield North American liquids plays.
We have captured a number of these but as you know we only disclose these plays when they’re proven successful and we have all the acreage tied up.
This same disclosure strategy worked for us in the Eagle Ford Bakken Barnett Combo and Permian.
It may frustrate investors on the front end because we don't hype unproved potential but we think investors are happy with our actual order results at the end of the day.
Recently the trade press has highlighted an EOG transaction in the Tuscaloosa.
We continue to have 0 interest in a JV in any of our Big 4 oil resource plays.
However over the last several months each of our Big 4 oil place has gotten bigger and we're accreting acreage in other areas.
This will likely add to our CapEx opportunities over time.
Therefore we decided to work with an outside partner in our exploration efforts for the Louisiana Tuscaloosa marine shale oil play where we've teamed with Mitsubishi.
We don't intend to provide specific funding details but we hope it's win-win for both parties.
To reiterate any possible oil resource play JVs will be the exception rather than rule and will definitely not be implemented in the Eagle Ford Bakken Combo or Permian.
We've previously disclosed that approximately 10% of our 2012 CapEx will be devoted to dry gas drilling in Haynesville Marcellus and Horn River to hold acreage and nothing has changed.
We expect the percent of CapEx allocated to dry gas in 2013 will be approximately 5%.
I'll make one interesting observation regarding our Barnett Shale gas production which I believe apprized all horizontal resource plays both gas and oil.
For 2 years we've not only monitored drilling in our Johnson County Barnett gas field and we've been able to observe production declines without interference from new wells.
Over the past 2 years the aggregate decline of wells has been slightly less than our forecast.
This data should ameliorate concerns among investors regarding longer term declines from horizontal gas and oil resource plays.
Outside North America we're continuing to work on our East Irish Sea Conwy oil development with an expected second half 2013 production start up.
Production's commencement has slipped 6 months because of a delay in drilling rig arrival.
Production will likely peak at 20 000 barrels of oil per day late in 2013.
We own 100% of this project.
In Argentina our first Vaca Muerta vertical well has been completed.
The well was currently in the early flowback stages after frac and looks strong.
We've also drilled and cased a horizontal well and we'll frac it in June.
In Trinidad we continue to project that 2012 gas sales will be flat with 2011.
We don't have much news to report regarding our Kitimat project.
We still expect FID no sooner than year end.
I'll now address 2 other EOG key differentiators: Crude-by-rail and sand plants.
Our St.
James crude-by-rail facility received its first Bakken crude oil shipment on April 15 allowing us to begin capturing the current $15 Bakken in LLS price uplift.
We now have the capability to move our Bakken Eagle Ford and Wolfcamp crude to either Cushing or St.
James.
Based on current differentials the best NPV for our rail tanker fleet is to move our EOG Bakken oil to St.
James and sell our Eagle Ford in the Houston and Corpus Christi markets.
We expect our St.
James facility to handle 50 000 barrels a day by June increasing to 70 000 barrels a day by year end.
We've provided guidance on our U.S.
oil differentials relative to WTI for the second quarter in yesterday's press release.
For those modeling this net back benefit remember that May will be a debugging month while we iron out the startup kinks though likely to facility will run at intermittent capacity.
We will not have the St.
James facility fully operational for the entire second quarter and not all of EOG's oil production will be sold to St.
James.
As market conditions and differentials change we have great flexibility and can rapidly revise where we sell our production and how we get our production to market.
Regarding frac sand our new Wisconsin sand plant started up in January.
And this plant in addition to our other sand facilities gives us the capacity to now self source the majority of our 2012 domestic fracs.
A rough approximation of the annual savings is $500 000 per well times 600 wells or $300 million per year.
No other E&amp;P company has boasted these differentiators and only a very small minority has even one of the 2 which combined with our first mover resource play advantage gives us a big competitive advantage.
Now I'll discuss our 2012 business plan.
Because we value consistency I'm happy to report that there are no changes to the strategy that we articulated in February.
This strategy is obviously working because we increased our full year liquids growth target from 30% to 33%.
We continue to adhere to a low debt ratio and intend to limit our max net debt to cap to 30% and sell $1.2 billion of assets this year.
Through May 1 we've closed on $565 million of sales and have approximately $600 million of sales in progress.
So once we close on pending sales we've essentially met our $1.2 billion target.
Over the past 3 years we've concentrated our assets by selling over 8 000 wells.
Part of our plan is to preserve a large dry gas resource play positions and we're achieving that by devoting a small portion of our CapEx to Marcellus Haynesville and Horn River lease retention drilling.
In the Horn River Basin we drilled 4 wells during the first quarter and have 3 wells remaining to drill in the second quarter.
Once these are drilled our leases will be held for 10 years.
Our liquids plays are generating very strong results as evidenced by our outstanding organic liquids growth.
This business plan will generate strong year-over-year EPS EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow growth even with low gas prices.
Remember only 8% of this year's North American revenue is subject to spot gas prices.
Even though some of our gas hedges roll off in 2013 because of our strong liquids growth we expect only a small amount of 2013 North American revenues will emanate from unhedged gas.
Simply put we think we're better situated than any other large cap E&amp;P to deal with the current natural gas price environment.
I'll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Good morning.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $11.9 million.
For the first quarter 2012 total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.9 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $171 million.
Total acquisitions for the quarter were $327 000.
As mentioned through May 1 proceeds from asset sales were $565 million.
At the end of March 2012 total debt outstanding was $5.0 billion and the debt to total capitalization ratio was 28%.
At March 31 we had $294 million of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $4.7 billion or net debt to total cap ratio of 27%.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter was 38% and the deferred tax ratio was 56%.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with earnings press release for the second quarter and full year 2012.
For the second quarter and full year the effective tax rate is estimated to be 35% to 45%.
We have also provided an estimated range of the dollar amount of current taxes that we expect to record during the second quarter and for the full year.
Regarding price sensitivities with our current hedged position in 2012 for each $1 moved in crude oil prices net income is impacted by $29 million and cash flow is impacted by $43 million.
For each $0.10 move in natural gas prices net income is impacted by $10 million and cash flow is impacted by $14 million.
Now I'll turn it back to Mark.
Thanks Tim.
Now I'll provide some views regarding macro hedging and concluding remarks.
Regarding oil we still think the global supply-demand balance is tight and the fundamentals dictate an average $105 WTI price in 2012.
The upside pressures are mainly geopolitical.
The downside risk is a second global recession.
And for that contingency we've recently increased our crude oil hedge position.
We don't subscribe to the theory that North American oil growth will create a global surplus.
We think a lot of the advertised but untested new North American liquids plays are even more show than subsequence or our NGL plays.
For the second half of 2012 we're approximately 24% hedged at $106.74 price.
We continue to have a very cautious outlook regarding 2012 natural gas prices.
And fortunately as a percent of North American gas we're 45% hedged at $5.44 for the second half of the year.
We think the current rise in gas prices is a head fake but the storage overhang is just too massive.
As you know we've been a big North American gas bear the last several years and we adjusted our gas investments accordingly in 2010 '11 and '12.
Last year our North American natural gas production declined 7% and this year we project a 10% decline.
This is likely the largest 2-year gas production decline of the peer group so we're doing our part to balance the market.
Please see the table that was included in our earnings press release for the details of our hedging contracts.
Now let me summarize.
In my opinion there are 6 points to take away from this call.
First the game plan we articulated several years ago is working.
In the first quarter our year-over-year GAAP EPS increased 131% non-GAAP EPS increased 72% adjusted EBITDAX was up 39% and discretionary cash flows increased 39%.
This is on top of our peer leading full year 2011 versus 2010 growth in these same metrics.
Second we continue to exhibit extremely strong oil and NGL growth for a company our size.
First quarter crude and condensate growth was 49% year-over-year and total liquids were up 48%.
This is on top of 52% crude and condensate growth and 48% total liquids organic growth for the full year of 2011 versus 2010.
Accordingly we've raised our full year 2012 liquids growth target to 33% while keeping CapEx flat.
Third we're on track to sell $1.2 billion of properties and keep our net debt to total cap below 30%.
Fourth what can I say about the Eagle Ford except that it's an 800-pound gorilla developing into a 1 000-pound gorilla.
Fifth the Bakken Three Forks is our upside surprise to the quarter and we're considerably more optimistic about the next 10 years of this play than we were a year ago.
And finally EOG has 2 very significant logistical advantages that put us in a class by itself crude-by-rail and self-sourced frac sand.
Together these provide the opportunity for higher net backs market flexibility and cost advantages far above what we estimated when we committed to these projects.
Thanks for listening.
And now we'll go to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on CapEx.
Looked like it is kind of trending a little bit higher in the first quarter on a run-rate basis if I sort of multiply it by 4 for the year.
Can you just talk through how CapEx may change sequentially in the following quarters to kind of keep you guys within your guidance? Yes that's been a focus for us.
And as is mentioned earlier by Mark yes we started off the year.
We've got to a peak of 76 rigs and we did that because we had dropped back to 65 end of 2011 and we wanted to go ahead and get quite a number of these patterns drilled to bring on our production.
We're reducing that to 65 rigs total.
That's dropping rigs even out of the Eagle Ford as well as some of our gas well drilling.
And with that running 65 rigs we believe we'll be able to stay within our CapEx guidance.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I guess in the Bakken clearly you guys seem pretty excited about it.
Just trying to get a sense of how much additional acreage has kind of come in to your development program.
And additionally how much acreage you think left to be tested in the Bakken in sort of the Lite area that's kind of yet to be determined? Yes Leo.
It's not so much additional acreage.
Pretty much all of the acreage we have we think is acreage that's going to turn out to be productive.
Out of all the things we described and we kind of described 4 things there the core area downspacing the light area downspacing actually it's 5 things.
And then the Antelope area and the stuff out there in the state line area and then the Waterflood.
I'd say that there's a -- 3 of those things are definitely working core area downspacing state line area Antelope.
The Bakken Lite area downspacing we don't know for sure whether that's going to work and then the Waterflood.
But probably the biggest things that could make a difference there are the core area downspacing which we already checked the box on that and then the Waterflood.
Those are the ones that are going to be the big difference.
It's not so much are we going to be trying to prove up incremental acreage somewhere.
It's really really now how best -- how dense a spacing can we drill on the acreage that we have and then can we make a secondary recovery project work on that.
So that's the way I'd look at it but there's -- if we can get the -- particularly the Waterflood to work then we've got I think a significant upgrade in the likely reserves that we’ve got captured and the likely production we'll be generating out of the Bakken for the next decade really.
We'll take night our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> In the Eagle Ford can you talk to by year end what areal extent you're planning to test at 40 acres versus what you've already tested at 65 to 90? And then beyond the downspacing where do you think you are in optimizing completions in the Eagle Ford and whether you see room for further efficiencies? Yes I'll give it to Bill Thomas.
Brian that's a good question.
We have several patterns that we're currently drilling and frac-ing and just starting to test that are on the lower spacing below 65 acres per well.
So we're going to take that kind of flow because that's pushing it pretty hard and we really would like to get a couple of those patterns fully tested and developed before we expand that to -- over large large areas.
So that'll just take a little bit of time and we'll just kind of see how that goes as we progress.
On the frac side as you know industry-wide we are very aggressive on trying new techniques and new styles of frac technology and using microseismic and trying to increase the amount of rock that we are connecting each one of these horizontal wells.
And so we're making very very substantial and steady progress in the Eagle Ford.
As Mark mentioned earlier we are being more aggressive in some of the areas on our frac styles.
In terms of sand we're using different kinds of frac fluids and even different kinds of sand sizes in alternating the pump rates as well as alternating the way we distribute the frac along the laterals and we're making really good progress.
I would say much of the increases in the IPs that you see on the wells are due to just better frac technology than we had a year ago.
So we're just very pleased.
We're also as Mark mentioned the rock quality in the Eagle Ford it looks like we definitely captured the sweet spot.
And so the quality of rock that we have to deal with and work with in the Eagle Ford is very very very good.
Research Division</strong> Great great.
And then as a follow up is the takeaway from your comments on CapEx going forward that your call on development opportunities in your Big Four fields is now leading you to pursue more outside partner funding for opportunity for exploration outside those Big Four fields? And then can just remind us how you're thinking about balancing growth with CapEx and cash flow beyond 2012? Yes.
It's fair to say that if you looked at our Big Four fields and this is our internal assessment in terms of the size of them relative to a year ago and you know this a year ago we were looking at Eagle Ford at 900 million barrels now we're looking at it 1.6 billion.
A year ago we were looking at the Bakken.
And based on this call we're certainly more excited about the Bakken Three Forks than we were a year ago.
And as we also said on the call we continue to expand in the combo play although nothing that's discernibly exciting but just gradual expansion and the same in the Wolfcamp Leonard area.
So they've all gotten bigger some of them -- considerably bigger some of them just a bit bigger.
And then we continue to have an increasing list of greenfield new play ideas.
And so we just decided that this 30% net debt to cap is a hard line for us.
And we will just avail ourselves of some external financing on at least one selected oil play.
And so I think on a go-forward basis 2 things come out of -- that you ought to conclude.
One is the 30% net debt to cap is not a number we take lightly.
And the second thing is that the comment about not using external funding in the Big Four plays is just totally inflexible.
We're not going to change that at all.
But on some of our greenfield ideas for new plays we may elect from time to time to consider using outside financing We'll take our next question from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company International.
Research Division</strong> Mark impressive liquids growth during the quarter.
And as we ramp up the earnings season a number of the producers have delivered some pretty stunning liquids growth.
I was wondering if you can elaborate a little bit more on your comments at the end of your prepared remarks that you're not worried about there being a glut of oil developing here in the U.S.
given this impressive oil growth in this tight oil [ph] revolution? Yes.
I mean I'm not sure as the quarter ends that I've seen that impressive of liquids growth for most of the companies.
So I might disagree a little bit from your first comment there.
I think there's a lot of intent to have impressive liquids growth but I haven't seen the numbers put on the board.
But there are some theories out there by some sell siders that there ultimately will be a huge plethora of liquids growth.
But I just -- and there are a lot of liquids plays that are being talked about but they're yet unproven liquids plays.
And I would just say that our analysis is that we just don't think that there's going to be the growth out there that some people are projecting.
And if you look at our analysis in what we put out there on our website last night we're projecting by 2015 about 1.5 million barrels a day of increase in total U.S.
oil production due to this horizontal revolution which is quite substantial.
But we don't think that's going to be enough to change the global supply-demand picture.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-up to Leo's question on the CapEx and how we stay with the guidance for the full year can you provide us with that roadmap? You say you're going down to 65 rigs from year end and that was starting at where? And then is the majority of that going to be gas rigs? The ones we dropped were -- we dropped 4 there in the Eagle Ford but the rest of them are principally gas or liquids-rich gas well drilling.
Research Division</strong> And then what was the starting point on that? Going from how many rigs down to 65.
We peaked at 76 and we're now dropping to 65.
We'll take our next question from Joseph Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Mark how much of the 9% decline in North American natural gas year-over-year that you experienced in the first quarter how much of that is natural declines and how much of that is asset sales? We haven't worked that out exactly.
I mean it's probably fair to make an assumption maybe half.
Half is due to asset sales and half is just natural declines Joe.
It probably won't be too far off if you make that as an assumption.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful Mark.
And then in the Parshall field what were your previous assumptions about the recoveries you were getting and then where can those recoveries go with the infill drilling? Well I mean in the Parshall field the latest model we've done we keep on updating it.
Previously I'd quoted that our Bakken recovery factors in that area we're about 10%.
But now the latest model we've done shows that the recovery factor is about 8%.
And then it shows with the downspacing hopefully we can take that up to -- from 8% to in the range of about 12% or so and then further boost it farther than that if we're lucky enough to have the Waterflood work.
I'm not going to quote you a number on the Waterflood.
We'll give you that one if it actually works.
We'll take our next question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Back to the gas comments.
What do you think is going on in the Barnett as far as why those wells are holding up better? Is it just didn't have the -- can you just give us some color there? Yes.
I mean what I meant to convey there is they're holding up just a little bit better than what we had projected on our decline curves.
So there had been some talk out there that all these resource plays were going to fall on their face once you quit drilling.
And the intent of my comment was to say this is the first time where we've had kind of 2 years without a lot of interruptions from a lot of new drilling wells.
And the data basically shows that we have 2 years that with no precipitous declines other than what we had projected and actually a little stronger well performance than what we've projected.
So there were some profits of doom out there that said always all these resource plays we're going to -- overstated reserves et cetera.
And I just thought it'd be useful to you folks to hear some real work data.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
But yes obviously a lot of plays are seeing that so a lot of guys report more gas than they thought.
Yes sad for the gas market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes it’s not good.
As a follow up back to Eagle Ford you said you're going to 21 rigs from 23 at year end… Actually 27 going to 23.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
27 going to 23.
Is that just simply CapEx or is there -- I mean why not if the play's working as well you think and you're trying to test some new concepts why not just keep running at that 27 given the return you're probably seeing there right now.
Yes.
We just had a target to drill up 300 net wells this year.
And what we're finding out is with our drilling efficiencies we're -- it's taking us less time per well to drill.
And so we’re able to drill the 300 net wells for the rest of the year just with 23 rigs.
So that's kind of what drove us to release rigs.
We'll take our next question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to jump back to the Eagle Ford.
The well results that you discussed are obviously pretty impressive.
And looking at your presentation on the website this morning it looks like those wells are fairly consistently -- fairly close to the transition window I guess into the white gas area.
I guess my question is how repeatable do you think those results are going to be across your acreage? And are you prepared to not chop your type curve or your expectation for the play generally in terms of near-term production outlook? Yes you're right in that what we found is the wells that are nearer to the transition closer to the rich gas area generally have the better quality.
And so when you blend them all together the wells that are farther back from that  you end up with that 450 Mboe per well.
A lot of these wells that we’re quoting of course are our best wells.
And so many of them are 800 900 Mboe per well kind of wells on there.
So again we're -- overall it's kind of the average well it turns out to be.
The surprising thing to me is that other people all of which I'm sure are quoting their best wells to you.
Have yet to quote 2 000 3 000 4 000 barrel a day wells.
So there appears to be a big differential between the wells we're making and what other companies are making which is still kind of surprising to me on there.
Research Division</strong> As a follow up Mark if I can use my follow up.
So as you lower your rig count for this year in the Eagle Ford are you -- how are you -- are you kind of high grading where you're focusing the near-term drilling program towards that sort of transition region.
In other words should we be looking at higher early production results maybe transitioning to lower production over a longer period of time? In other words your 2012 production guidance could actually have some upside risk? I'm just trying to understand how you're allocating the rigs in that play? And I'll leave it at that.
No what's really driving us is more the acreage exploration than trying to high grade it there.
We can cover all the acreage exploration with 300 wells this year but that's what's driving us so we're not in a perfect world for NPV optimization you drill all your best wells in the early years.
But it's not a case where we're targeting our best wells in the early years and then saving all the weaker well later.
It's really just -- we drilled some of the better wells and some of the less good wells driven by the acreage side.
So you can't really project that the well quality will go down in later years because we cherry-pick the best wells.
Research Division</strong> I think about -- more about front end loading the better wells so that we actually end up with much shaft [ph].
As you say faster NPV realization.
Okay that's very clear Mark.
I'll leave it there.
We'll take our next question from Arun Jayaram with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Mark last quarter you commented or gave some data on the Henkhaus unit where you're testing down the 65 acres in the Eagle Ford.
And obviously the results from the 4H well were very very strong.
I just wanted to see if you could give us a sense for the 5H and the 12H wells.
How tightly spaced were those laterals relative to that unit? Yes they were basically all in the same spacing.
The 5H and the 12H are a little bit shorter than the other wells but their IPs and the way that they're responding for total lateral are very comparable to the other wells.
And the surprising thing on that is is that we have significant production from the other wells on the unit before we completed these wells.
And so that's very very very encouraging to us.
The matrix contribution on the Eagle Ford I think has been remarkable and it's been a very big pleasant surprise for us.
So things are going well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But in general those are all in that 65 acre spacing in terms of width? Is that a fair comment? Yes that's correct.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up question.
Mark you talked about the offset wells in Bakken increasing in the core part of the field as you've gone down from 640 to 320s.
What exactly is going on there? And can you comment was that a positive surprise for you? It was a surprise yes.
We didn't expect that.
Our theory is that when we frac those wells originally which would've been the 640-acre wells 4 5 years ago that looking back we probably didn't get as efficient of a stimulation as we might have liked and that we now are going to bigger fracs today than what we did back then and that in the downspaced well we gave a bigger frac and we probably stimulated some of that area even around the 640-acre original well.
So that's kind of -- that's one theory that seems to make the most sense to me that we would frac new rock around even the older well.
So it's kind of an extra bonus really on there which kind of cinches the case for the downspacing there really.
And the other thing it tells us is that clearly the 640-acre original spacing was too wide.
So it makes it kind of a slam dunk case for the 320-acre spacing and then it just opens the question about well is 320 still too wide? And should we investigate 160? So that'll be the next step we're look at too.
On the spacing on both the Eagle Ford and the Bakken clearly what we did in retrospect is we started out with too wide of spacing and in both of them now we're densifying the spacing and we’ll densify it until we conclude okay this is too dense of a spacing.
And maybe in the Eagle Ford example maybe 65 acres is as dense as we want to go maybe 40 acres is we don't know.
But I guess you live and you learn.
The other way we could've done it is we could have gone to ultra-dense spacing to start and then said this is too dense and then work the way to wider spacing but we're doing it the other way.
So we'll just see how it plays out but we're concluded that the initial spacing was too wide and we'll just work inwards until we conclude that now okay this is too close in terms of spacing.
And we'll take our next question from Ray Deacon with BBMC Capital.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering so I think is -- I think previously you were saying Bakken production will be in decline in 2012.
Is that still the case or not? I think previously what we said is Bakken production would be flat in 2012.
And it's probably fair to say that in 2012 Bakken production will be flat or maybe we'd say maybe just very slightly up.
But based on what we're seeing I'd say that 2013 and forward there's a pretty decent chance Bakken production will have a good chance to be on the incline.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And would that be based on results of downspacing in Bakken Lite and Waterflooding or based on what you see today? Probably just on what we see today not even counting the Waterflooding results.
The Waterflooding all we're doing right now is a pilot.
And we'll know something about that by the end of the year and then we'd have to go to a full-scale Waterflood.
And so frankly it would be 2014 before we really see production results from a full-scale waterflood.
So that's still a couple years away.
We'll take our next question from Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Mark I just want to catch back up with one of your beginning comments.
You said that a lot of your growth is really coming from oil and condensate.
And so I want to ask how do you feel about the natural gas liquid markets specifically ethane? Are we kind of hitting a bottleneck or simply we have unusual amount of downtime during first quarter.
In multiple basins I wanted to get your take on the ethane market.
Yes.
I mean we've put some guidance in our 8-K there.
For the first time more of a gas than guidance as to -- as a function of crude what our total NGL price expectations are.
We don't guarantee the accuracy but we decided we'd put some guidance in there anyway.
Our read on the NGL market is that the second quarter will -- and specifically ethane.
Second quarter will continue to be relatively weak.
But the second -- and the reason first and second quarters were weak are weak is that there were a lot of plant turnarounds ethylene plant turnarounds.
But beginning in the second half of the year we expect those prices to strengthen in a relative sense and that we're a little more bullish than a lot of people that ethane prices will remain decent probably in the 40% to 50% range of crude oil long term.
So right now we're not writing off those prices and saying they're going to just degrade to nothingness.
And that's based on the long term that the ethylene -- the cheapest place to make ethylene is probably going to be in the United States as opposed to anywhere else in the world.
But second quarter our expectations are pretty bearish.
Check with me in 6 months and I might have a different story.
We'll take our next question from Monroe Helm with Barrow Hanley.
Hanley Mewhinney &amp; Strauss Inc.</strong> Actually my question had to do with the response that you were getting on the downspacing and you already answered that.
So I'll leave it at that.
We'll take our next question from Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up on that Bakken rejuvenation.
Are you recovering frac fluid from the new wells in those old mature offset wells? Yes we're recovering frac fluid from the offset as well as the new well.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you've connected it up and you've kind of done a mini waterflood test inadvertent Mike.
That's correct yes.
And the good thing about this is you're always seeing substantial increase in the offsets.
And there were about 7 of those wells and this production is holding up extremely well in those.
Some of our technical people that are optimistic about the Waterflood have a theory that the reason we've doubled the production in the older wells is that we've in fact done a mini Waterflood with the frac.
So that's one theory anyway.
And at this time due to time constraints we're going to conclude the question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Papa for any additional closing remarks.
No I have no further remarks.
We'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you for listening.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for your participation today.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources First Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Mark Papa.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing first quarter 2011 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
Effective January 1 2010 the SEC now permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast including those for the Eagle Ford may include estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate that reference as a cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release and Investor Relations page at our website.
With me this morning are Loren Leiker Senior EVP Exploration; Gary Thomas Senior EVP Operations; Bill Thomas Senior EVP Exploitation; Tim Driggers Vice President and CFO; and Maire Baldwin Vice President Investor Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website last night and we included second quarter and full year guidance in yesterday's press release.
I'll now review our first quarter net income and cash flow followed by our operational highlights.
Tim Driggers will then provide some financial details then I'll provide some macro and hedging comments along with concluding remarks.
As outlined in our press release for the first quarter EOG reported net income of $134 million or $0.52 per share.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP net income if you eliminate mark-to-market impacts and certain onetime adjustments as outlined in the press release EOG's first quarter adjusted net income was $177 million or $0.68 per share.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP discretionary cash flow EOG's DCF for the first quarter was $947 million.
I'll now discuss our 2011 business plan and operational results.
Our business plan continues to be consistent and straightforward.
We're rapidly making the organic conversion to a liquids-based company by exploiting our world-class North American horizontal oil positions while still preserving 100% of our large North American natural gas resource play assets and maintaining a low net debt to cap ratio.
As our first quarter results indicate the plan is working just like we drew it up on the chalkboard 4 years ago.
We've invested the majority of our capital in very high reinvestment rate of return domestic oil development projects which will ultimately flow through our net income and show up as superior ROEs and ROCEs.
We're very comfortable regarding our 2011 goal of approximately $1 billion of asset sales which will help maintain low debt ratios.
In the first quarter we received $260 million from property dispositions and asset sales.
Since March 31 we've received an additional $387 million of proceeds and we're actively working on an incremental $400 million of sales.
So this goal is well in hand.
In the first quarter total company production averaged 14% year-over-year.
Total company liquids increased 47% and unit costs remained in line.
Although our second quarter oil estimate has been significantly affected by flooding and ice storms in our North Dakota Bakken and Manitoba Waskada fields and major electricity outages impacting our North Dakota Bakken  operations there's no change to our full year production growth targets of 9% for total company and 49% for total liquid.
This is reflected in last night's guidance.
I want to repeat a comment that I made on the previous quarterly call.
At the current 23:1 crude oil to natural gas price ratio I believe the overall production growth yardstick is somewhat meaningless.
In today's world the metrics of liquids production growth and product mix change should be the focus since cash flow returns and earnings will follow liquids growth and that's how we define EOG strategy.
I'll now discuss several of our key plays beginning with the Eagle Ford.
I'll start with an editorial comment.
I believe Wall Street continues to undervalue our Eagle Ford oil position.
Perhaps the undervaluation is disbelief at the sheer size of this onshore position.
Not many people can believe the fact that we've captured a 900 million barrel oil equivalent net after royalty position consisting of 77% oil and 11% NGLs with very high reinvestment rates of return.
I can't think of a single company independent or major who has captured this size net oil accumulation in the onshore lower 48 in the past 40 years.
We're in the first inning of developing this asset and just like the Bakken this is becoming one of the hottest plays in North America.
EOG by moving early has captured the largest acreage position in the crude oil window.
We're the biggest producer from the oil window with net production of 23 000 barrels of oil equivalent at the end of the first quarter.
Our press release contains multiple individual well results so rather than providing a well-by-well recitation I'll provide some context regarding the overall play.
There are 3 key points: First we are currently drilling with 18 rigs.
Simply put we continue to have 100% success with our drilling results.
We've now drilled enough wells throughout our 520 000 net acre spread to feel very comfortable that all the acreage is good.
Our most recent success is in a new fault block identified on 3D seismic at the north easternmost end of our acreage where the Hill Unit #2 well tested at 1 233 barrel oil per day initial rate.
The results from the wells were drilled across our entire acreage position are very consistent.
The wells in the northeast and center portions of our acreage IP at between 800 and 1 500 barrels of oil per day plus rich gas while the southwest wells IP at 600 to 800 barrels of oil per day plus rich gas.
As with any resource play the wells exhibit a steep decline the first few years and ultimately level out at 100 to 200 barrels of oil per day over the long term.
Our per well reserve estimates are unchanged from our previous estimate between 430 000 and 460 000 barrels of oil equivalent net after royalty.
Second project economics have improved with oil prices and our ongoing focus on cost efficiencies.
Last quarter I quoted 65% to 110% direct after-tax unlevered reinvestment rates of return using current well cost.
Using the current NYMEX oil strip the per well economics are 95% to 140% direct after tax.
Additionally we still expect to further improve these economics by decreasing well cost from the current $6 million target to our goal of $5 million by 2012 with our self-sourced fracs.
When combined with the size of the prize this bodes huge for EOG's future profitability.
Over time we'll invest between $10 billion and $15 billion developing this asset.
Again  [Audio Gap] who has captured this magnitude of a very high return investment opportunity.
And third last quarter I mentioned 2 Eagle Ford logistics issues: the lack of both frac proppant availability and crude oil takeaway capacity.
These problems still exist but so far neither has bitten us.
Proppant availability is still a hand-to-mouth existence but we've arranged for some temporary fixes until our self-sourced sand arise later this year.
Regarding crude oil takeaway capacity we've installed the crude-by-rail facility.
We're currently moving 4 000 barrels of oil per day and expect to be building 20 000 barrels of oil per day of Eagle Ford oil by rail by year end.
The concept is the same as our highly successful Bakken crude-by-rail program where we are moving on average 40 000 barrels of oil per day.
Shifting to the Bakken we continue to be the largest North Dakota oil producer and registered our typical great results from first quarter wells.
As with the Eagle Ford I won't go into a well-by-well recitation but will instead provide an overview.
We're currently running 10 rigs and are having consistently good results i.e.
100% success across our 600 000 acres.
Aggregate direct economics in the Bakken are 40% to 50% after-tax.
Currently the Bakken is our greatest -- excuse me is our largest crude oil component and will continue to be until the Eagle Ford surpasses it in a few years.
Our Barnett Combo play is also performing well.
We did have weather hurdles during the first quarter with freeze-offs and associated downtime.
We expanded our core position to 185 000 net acres.
We're running 11 rigs and are achieving good results in both eastern and western portions of the core area encompassing Cooke and Montague Counties.
At a $3 million well cost the typical direct ATRORs here are 40% to 60%.
In the Permian Basin we've had further success in Irion and Crockett Counties in our Wolfcamp play where we're running 2 rigs.
Two wells are the Munson 2701H and the University 43-1001H which had 30-day production averages of 330 and 440 barrels of oil per day with 400 to 700 Mcf a day of rich gas respectively.
The Wolfcamp is in the early stages of optimization.
We recently completed the University 40-1404H well using a different type frac.
The well is currently producing 624 barrels of oil per day with 539 Mcf per day and showing good results.
We've proven up 44 000 of our 120 000 acres and by year end we'll have the remaining 76 000 acres tested.
This area contains multiple separate Wolfcamp play horizons so we're excited about the ultimate potential here.
Also on the Permian Basin we're running one rig in our Leonard Shale  horizontal play and continue to have positive results such as the Vaca 14-5H well which averaged 476 barrels of oil per day with 1.2 million cubic feet a day of rich gas for the first 15 days.
We're executing our Leonard development at a relatively slow pace because we don't have the lease expiration issues that we have in other areas.
In our VJ Basin Niobrara oil play recent results have shifted my feeling regarding the play from cautious to optimistic.
We've made great strides in improving our understanding of the play on our 80 000 net acre Hereford Ranch field where production is 4 000 barrels of oil per day net.
During the remainder of the year we'll test the other portions of our 220 000 total net acres.
Industry results today have been mixed but we feel pretty good that we've got a significant oil play to develop.
However it will be year end before we can provide you a reserve estimate.
I'll now discuss the play and acreage position we haven't previously disclosed.
We have 138 000 net acres in the Powder River Basin and feel this acreage is prospective in multiple pay horizons.
To date we've concentrated a one-rig program drilling wells in Campbell County Wyoming.
So far we've drilled 8 successful horizontal wells in the Turner sandstone.
A typical well is a Crossbow 7-6H which had a 30-day average rate of 275 barrels of oil per day with 100 barrels per day of NGLs and 2 million cubic feet a day of gas.
We'll be testing other intervals on this acreage later this year and in 2012.
The last oil play I'll discuss is our Waskada horizontal field in Manitoba.
Our Canadian crude oil production grew 47% year-over-year in the first quarter due to further field development.
During the first quarter we drilled 47 wells and attained an average IP of 240 barrels of oil per day from this program.
Production will remain flat during the second and third quarters due to flooding and spring break up.
Production growth will resume in the fourth quarter when we put more wells online.
This area continues to generate 100% direct after-tax rates of return.
Turning to the dry gas side of our ledger we're focusing essentially all our natural gas investments in areas where we have to drill to hold acreage: The Marcellus Haynesville and to a lesser extent the Horn River.
In the Marcellus we've added another data point from our 50 000 net acres in Bradford County.
Using our new frac design the Guinan #2H tested at 9 million cubic feet per day.
This complements the Hoppaugh 3H well that we reported last quarter with a 14 million a day IP rate and provides further confirmation that our acreage is quite good.
We have 100% working interest in both wells.
In the Haynesville we've increased our sweet spot holdings by 7 000 net acres.
We'll average 8.5 drilling rigs this year and we're achieving expected results.
In Nacogdoches County the Kurth #1 IP-ed at a restricted rate of 16 million a day with 8 800 psi flowing pressure from the Haynesville.
In San Augustine County the Sunrise #1 well IP-ed at a restrictive rate of 12 million cubic feet a day with 8 600 psi in the Bossier formation.
We continue to make good progress in reducing completed well cost with the 12% reduction in our Nacogdoches and San Augustine County program in the first quarter versus our 2010 results.
In British Columbia our Kitimat LNG project continues to make progress.
The 2 key commercial items that will determine ultimate project viability are the detailed project cost estimate which is underway and securing oil index offtake contracts.
I continue to be optimistic regarding this project but I think it will be year end or first quarter 2012 before we can determine if this project is a definite go.
I'll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Good morning.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $15.6 million.
For the first quarter 2011 total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.58 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment expenditures were $160 million.
At first quarter end 2011 total debt outstanding was $5.2 billion and the debt to total capitalization ratio was 31%.
At March 31 we had $1.7 billion of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $3.5 billion or net debt to total cap ratio of 23%.
On a GAAP reporting basis the effective tax rate for the first quarter was 41% and the deferred tax ratio was 34%.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with the earnings press release for second quarter and updated full year of 2011.
For the second quarter the effective tax range is 35% to 50%.
For the full year of 2011 the effective tax range is 35% to 45%.
We've also provided an estimated range of a dollar amount of current taxes that we expect to record during the second quarter and for the full year.
For each $1 per barrel change in wellhead crude oil and condensate price combined with the related change in NGL price the sensitivity is approximately $25 million for net income and $36 million for operating cash flow.
EOG's price sensitivity for each $0.10 per Mcf change in wellhead natural gas prices is approximately $16 million for net income and $23 million for operating cash flow excluding any impacts from swaptions.
Now I'll turn it back to Mark to discuss hedging and provide his concluding remarks.
Thanks Tim.
Now I'll discuss our views regarding macro and hedging.
Regarding crude oil we still like both the short- and long-term supply demand fundamentals although guessing which way short-term oil prices will move is a speculative call.
We're currently 27% hedged June through December of this year at a $97 price.
And for 2012 we're approximately 6% hedged at a $107 price.
We continue to have a 1:3 cautionary view regarding North American natural gas prices but believe in the 2014-plus time period natural gas markets will balance as gas power generation demand increases.
Our hedges are consistent with our macro view.
We're approximately 48% hedged at a $4.90 price for June through December this year.
Additionally we sold options at a $4.73 price that if exercised would mean we're 86% hedged through year end.
For 2012 we're approximately 38% hedged at a $5.44 price with options that if exercised would increase to a 69% hedge level at a $5.44 price.
Now let me summarize.
In my opinion there are 6 important points to take away from this call.
First our shift from a natural gas to a liquids company is essentially complete.
At current prices we'd expect approximately 70% of our North American revenue to emanate from crude oil condensate and natural gas liquids as opposed to 30% from natural gas.
A large majority of the liquids are oil and not NGLs.
Second all of our oil plays are onshore North America with the vast majority in the U.S.
All of this oil is sweet good quality and highly desired by refineries.
Third our reinvestment rates of return are very strong.
I think they're the best in the industry led by the Eagle Ford.
Fourth during my visits with shareholders I'm often asked about industry capital allocation.
We recently tabulated 2010 actual and 2011 projected North American gas production for all mid and large cap public independent E&amp;Ps.
EOG is practically the only company who's not growing North American gas volumes in this oversupplied market.
This is truly amazing to me.
Investors who focus on the efficacy of capital allocation this should be a positive discriminator in EOG's favor.
Fifth for the first time we've introduced our Powder River Basin acreage position where we've already drilled 8 consecutive successful wells.
And sixth we are on track to execute our 2011 capital expenditure program while maintaining low net debt.
Thanks for listening.
And now we'll go to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Scott Wilmoth Simmons &amp; Company.
Hey guys looking at your Eagle Ford rail facility is that crude coming to the Gulf Coast and how did the transportation costs compare to trucking your crude? Yes the crude-by-rail that we're moving from the Eagle Ford is either -- it's currently either going into the Belmont area or into the Louisiana area.
So it is currently getting a price that is a hybrid between WTI and LLS.
And compared to the trucking opportunities where you're not going to end up at those end markets there's a very significant difference right now.
The crude takeaway continues to be a very very large problem in the Eagle Ford and as Eagle Ford production grows it's going to just get worse I believe in terms of crude takeaway.
And so this rail system that we hastily put in is probably going to turn out to be a very profitable item for us similar to what we've done in the Bakken.
Okay great.
Then next on the Eagle Ford well spacing I know at the Analyst Day you guys were saying anywhere from 125 to 140.
Can you give us an update on that? And then what percentage of your acreage have you tested on that spacing yet? I guess overall question Scott what percentage of our acreage have we tested? We'd say we've tested 100% of our acreage with wells.
In terms of the spacing we're still doing some work to determine what the optimum spacing is.
The range of wells we'll need to drill is we're still somewhere between 2 100 and maybe 2 800 wells depending on how the spacing plays out.
But that's probably going to be another couple of quarters before we can definitely say the spacing is X.
Our next question today will come from Leo Mariani RBC.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question on asset sales.
Just trying to get a sense of a little bit more color on what these $387 million in asset sales were for the quarter if there's any production associated with that? And then just any thoughts you guys might have on the $400 million in pending asset sales? What are those and what's sort of targeted here? Yes the $380 million of asset sales that we announced basically year-to-date in the second quarter were all long-live gas-producing properties fairly mature producing properties.
The biggest portion of that was some Cotton Valley production Cotton Valley/Travis Peak production in the East Texas area.
And we also sold some production in the New Mexico area.
And if you kind of take a look at what we've produced in terms of gas production -- in U.S.
gas production in the first quarter I believe it was 1 134 million cubic feet a day and I think our midpoint for the second quarter is 1 096.
Don't hold me to that number.
I don't have it in front of me.
But that kind of shows an approximate amount of what we've sold that we would expect in the second quarter.
As to the remaining sales for the rest of the year it's going to be a combination of some midstream assets some just raw acreage and some additional producing properties.
Good enough? LLC</strong> Yes that was very good color there.
And Leo this is Maire.
The year-to-date asset sales are $647 million the $387 million was subsequent to the first quarter.
LLC</strong> Right got you.
Okay.
Just looking at your CapEx for the quarter I guess if I sort of add in kind of your total spending on some of the infrastructure as well you guys are at about $1.72 billion.
Just kind of on a run rate basis if I were sort of to multiply that by 4 I think that gets you kind of between $6.8 billion and $6.9 billion for the year.
Just curious as to whether or not you had disproportionately high infrastructure expenses in the first quarter? And any comments on cost creep that may have hit you and then kind of how you think CapEx plays out for the year? Yes we still believe the CapEx number midrange is roughly $6.5 billion for the full year.
Part of what we'll see in the second half particularly in the fourth quarter is the impact to some of our self-sourced sand particularly in the Eagle Ford division on our fracs.
So we'd expect the well cost to go down.
So the first quarter run rate isn't -- you can't really multiply that by 4 to get there.
In terms of cost creep we're seeing cost creep clearly in the service sector.
And you've heard that from frankly everybody who's done earnings call.
The biggest proportion of cost creep is the frac jobs as it was last year.
So it's incumbent upon us to move to a self-sourced fracs where I think we'll have a differential advantage relative to others in the industry and we are moving that way.
Next is Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Mark just a -- first question is in terms of the new PRB play and also on the horizontal Niobrara Play what are your current costs per well and where do you expect them to be when you get into development mode? And then what's your best guess in terms of EURs per well now? As far as the cost on the Powder River the Turner we started out there it was right at $6 million per well.
We're getting those now down to $5.5 million.
So yes we would expect maybe to trim a little bit more off of those costs in a program mode.
And in the Niobrara we've got a couple of plays there within the Niobrara and more in the fracture play our cost is around the $3.6 million per well.
And then we get into the matrix play it's in the $6 million.
We would expect to be able to bring that down in the $5 million to $5.5 million range.
And then the EURs per well? Yes on the Turner itself it's a little too soon to tell we've given you a pie chart I think in the IR slide that went out last night that shows that it's about 45% liquids 55% gas.
But that's for the full reserve life of the well.
And obviously we've had to do an internal model to come up with those numbers.
It's a higher liquids yield in the first couple of years as in all these retrograde condensate type plays that you will come down over time.
We're modeling a variety of EURs per well but something in the 350 to 400 Mboe per well gross is our sort of walking around number right now.
Yes and on the Niobrara we just -- it's a bit too soon to give you an estimate on per well reserves on -- the Niobrara's clearly a more complicated play.
And I'd say our degree of understanding is not yet sufficiently strong where we feel comfortable giving either an overall reserve estimate on our captured acreage or a per well basis.
That's probably going to have to wait until the end of the year.
And next we'll hear from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Mark as you highlighted in your comments you are implying a big ramp up of oil production in the third and fourth quarters.
That can certainly make sense if there's a weather impacted well of oil offline waiting to come back when those weather issues subside.
Can you try to quantify the impacts that the weather issues in the Bakken and Waskada are having on your current production in terms of what maybe shut-in or the extent of the potential that would be in backlog by the end of the quarter? Yes a well of oil that's a good way to characterize it there.
Specifically I'll give you a little color as to what's happened to us particularly in the second quarter.
The second quarter we had flooding that affected us both in Waskada and in the Bakken and this was just simply high water where we couldn't have our pumpers access wells to physically maintain them.
And then last weekend we had in North Dakota a very severe late-season ice and high windstorm that snapped literally hundreds of thousands of power lines in the area of Williston as well as our field area.
And so we're pretty much without electricity.
The power companies are trying to restore it but obviously they're giving first priority to things like the City of Williston the hospitals the schools the residential.
And then we were kind of one of the later priorities to get it out into the field operations.
And we don't really know how long the power outages are going to last.
What's loaded into our estimate for the second quarter for oil estimate is we're assuming that we're going to get hit for the entire month of May with some pretty significant power outages that are going to affect our North Dakota production.
And I know if you just look at the ramp up that we'll need in the third and fourth quarter to get us to our full year target it looks like a pretty steep ramp up.
I don't want to give you specific quantifications but what I can tell you is that the third and fourth quarter the ramp ups in terms of where they're going to come from in the Bakken you'll clearly going to have a snapback of production in the third and fourth quarter relative to what we're going to achieve in the second quarter just as we get these weather issues and downtime eliminated.
And then the biggest single driver of production growth is going to be the Eagle Ford.
And we've articulated a series of wells there in Eagle Ford in our press release.
But I would just say obviously the more wells we drill with 100% success that turn out as we predicted the higher our degree of confidence is getting that the production target in Eagle Ford is quite achievable.
And then we also articulated in the Barnett Combo play that we're having pretty good success there.
And so that's going to be a driver also.
So those 3 plays Eagle Ford first snapback in the Williston Basin area Bakken area and then the Combo play that's going to be our main drivers of the production growth in the second half but with the contributions from the Permian Basin or the Mid-Continent and from Canada.
But because of pace of activities in those areas the number of rigs we're employing is not nearly as high or the contributions there are not going to be all that great in relative terms compared to the first 3 plays that I mentioned.
So punch line is and I guess let me put it this way.
We had a cushion on our oil estimate for the full year 55% year-over-year going into the second quarter.
We had a little bit of fat in our estimate.
And this second quarter downtime has pretty much consumed that little cushion.
So we're still comfortable with our estimate.
But we don't have the cushion that we once had due to these weather issues.
That's helpful.
That's very helpful.
And then secondly you spoke last quarter regarding proprietary completion methods in the Niobrara.
This quarter you mentioned the new completion in the Marcellus.
Are any of these related? Are you doing things differently in terms of completion techniques across plays that's having a material impact on economics and can you put that into context in terms of what that could mean both for the 2 plays and for the ability to unlock any additional plays? Yes Brian what we can say about it is yes you're right.
We're using different completion techniques specifically designed for each play.
And they vary widely from area to area.
In the Marcellus we've done one thing that's made tremendous differences in our wells and we're experimenting with new techniques in the Niobrara.
And we had multiple play types in the Niobrara.
And so each play type has a specific completion technique that's proprietary to EOG and we can't really talk much about the details but we work really hard gathering the data analyzing the data and continue to refine our completion techniques for each play.
And so they're very specific and it's working out really good for the company.
Brian just to give a little more color on that.
Obviously there's been mixed results from the Niobrara as from various companies in the industry whereas you heard fairly consistent results on EOG's results in the Niobrara.
And then in the Wolfcamp as I kind of read some of the earnings data that's come out here from other companies you're getting kind of mixed results from other companies in the Wolfcamp.
Whereas EOG we're pretty well nailing it in the Wolfcamp.
Every well is good and we think getting better.
And I really think this goes back to EOG being first mover in these plays.
I continue to believe that we are number one in technology in horizontal oil plays.
That means finding them before everybody else and it means figuring out how to complete the wells and frac them most efficiently.
And I just think the Wolfcamp example is just the latest in a long string of cases where EOG wells are better than results from other companies.
Irene Haas Wunderlich Securities has a question.
I just kind of wanted to drill down a little bit on the Niobrara.
I mean from what I hear is that there's a sorting out process and even you mentioned there are various sub-plays and the cost for drilling a fracture well versus matrix well is quite a bit different.
So just trying to get a sense as to number one Mark why do you feel optimistic as there's definitely different usage of adjective from before? And how can we look at this play? Is it going to be a core area non-core? Is it going to be sort of patchy depending on a specific geology? Well I think it's too early to say really about the full extent of Niobrara.
We're in the process of drilling multiple wells on -- step-out  wells on our acreage.
Then the Hereford Ranch we've had very encouraging results both in the fractured type play and in the matrix type play.
And so that's what gives us the encouragement.
And we see those characteristics really in much of our acreage.
So we're in the process of gathering data.
We have some very proprietary techniques to evaluate the particular play types and we've got some techniques that we're trying on the completion side that at least at this point in the development of the play they're getting really positive results.
So that's what gives us the encouragement as we go forward.
And would you -- it seems like the matrix plays are more expensive than the sort of fracture play.
Is that correct? And if that's the case would you favor the more fractured zones or is it too early to tell? Well the plays are different in that the matrix plays will have a higher resource recovery.
And so you're able to drill more wells per acre per section.
But the economics really on both play types we think are going to be very strong.
So we want to pursue our acreage and our techniques match all that together to maximize the reserve recovery of our acreage.
So we feel positive and very encouraged about both types as we go forward.
Okay great.
Biju Perincheril with Jefferies has our next question.
Inc.</strong> Going back to the Powder River Basin can you talk about if you have tested Niobrara there? Do you see potential for Niobrara? Yes Biju.
We said we had 138 000 net acres in the Powder.
And we're really mapping and working at 6 independent targets 4 of those are sandstones including this Turner that we're doing most of our drilling on so far.
The other 3 are in this upper Cretaceous so-called halo plays that others have talked about which we do think are prospective on a portion of our acreage.
A couple of shale plays and one of those is in fact the Niobrara.
We are intending to test the Niobrara either late this year early next year waiting on permits in a couple of areas.
We certainly see prospect activity in the Niobrara in that basin.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then the CapEx the $1.58 billion is that all-inclusive or just E&amp;D excluding facilities? That's inclusive.
They're in that number.
Actually it's not inclusive.
The facilities number there was 100 -- there was an additional $160 million per facility.
Inc.</strong> I'm sorry that $160 million is additional? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay and so can you talk about once you bring in the self-sourced frac-ing solution how much you expect to save and the timing of that? On the self-sourced frac plays we have quite a number of the frac fleet in place now.
What we're doing is sourcing our own profit and generally we're doing that through contract.
We've got one sand mine in place and we're working to bring another online.
And that will be near first of year 2012.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So if I sort of take this first quarter CapEx it looks like the run rate is a little higher than the annual budget.
Are you factoring in some savings or I mean I would imagine the second half completion pace would have to pick up to meet the production numbers.
Just depends on which play.
For example in the Combo we're really going to be running less rigs in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year.
So all I can say on the CapEx is we expect to achieve the number that we're showing in the guidance last night.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Then just one last question on the rail line in the Eagle Ford.
Is 20 000 the max capacity or is there a plan to build that out further and is there a CapEx number there? Yes what we did in this rail line in Eagle Ford it's a -- I don't want to use the word makeshift but it's one we put together in a 30-day period.
It's realizing the criticalness of the takeaway for crude oil in the Eagle Ford.
We knew we couldn't basically take an 8- or 9-month period to get the rail line crude-by-rail constructed as we did in North Dakota.
So we just took our learnings from North Dakota and said what can we get together on a temporary basis that's going to cover us? And so it's not obvious to me that we'll end up with north of 20 000 barrels a day capacity by year end.
And whether we decide to permanently run that rail line or not is something we'll have to sort out.
As you remember what we're trying to do is bridge the gap between today and mid-2012.
Mid-2012 is when Enterprise is supposed to have that big-inch oil pipeline going down pretty much the heart of our acreage position.
So we were just -- in other words if we were to invest the capital right now and say let's build a real true absolutely permanent crude-by-rail facility there it's not certain that we'd be needing it post mid-2012.
So the amount of capital we spent on this rail system is pretty de minimis less than $10 million.
So it's not a big capital consuming item.
And it's really -- it should be viewed at least right now as an alternative to the trucking that gets us to a higher priced end user market refinery market if you will.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
Appreciate it.
And hearing no response we'll take our next question Eric Hagen Lazard Capital Markets.
Joe got my questions.
Sorry I didn't get off the queue.
Next we have John Herrlin Societe Generale.
I got a couple of unrelated ones.
Mark in terms of your total well count right now or rig count rather how much is horizontal in total that you're going to spud this year versus vertical? We got currently 72 rigs since we've mentioned the last quarter.
We'll be running probably at the average 75 to 78 rigs.
And of that I would say 80% of that is going to be horizontal.
I might even say 85% or 90%.
It's pretty rare when we drill a vertical well John.
Okay.
That what I thought.
I was just confirming.
What about lateral lengths? Are you going longer or your frac stage is increasing? Have you changed your well designs? We are going with longer laterals.
For instance in the Bakken probably 75% or 80% of those wells are going to be the 1 280s or 10 000 foot laterals.
We've drilled as long as 14 000-foot laterals there.
And that's just kind of in the trend in most of our areas.
And yes when you go with the longer laterals you have larger completions additional stages and additional profit requirement.
Are your drilling time efficiencies offsetting some of the completion costs? Yes that's how we are in addition to us doing the self sourcing.
And also us sourcing our own profit et cetera for our stimulation jobs.
But for instance in the Haynesville we reduced our days by about 20% and we've also continued to alter our stimulations there.
So we've reduced our well costs there from the start of the year by somewhere between 15% and 18%.
Last one for me you had some of your competitors talk about being more integrated.
You just mentioned that you're mining your own sand as proppant.
Does that work for you or it just as a business model doesn't make sense to you to be more integrated on the services side? John we're certainly not going to integrate ourselves to the tune of buying drilling rigs.
That's not at all what we're considering.
On the frac side what we've been doing in the Barnett both in the Barnett gas and the Combo areas for the last 3 or 4 years is we've been using our own mined sand and using what the third-party contract pumping companies not necessarily the majors and going that route as opposed to building our own frac pumps and manning our own frac pumps.
So we have a business model that seems to work for us.
It's worked in the Barnett for the past 4 years.
And that's what we're really looking at doing most everywhere is not having the frac pumps owned by EOG but having a third party operate those kind of contracting them kind of like we contract drilling rigs.
And have us provide the proppant to those particular pumps.
Well I remember when you help start some of the companies you talked about that a few years back.
I was just wondering if you're going to increase the scale just given how you're operating? Yes.
Well the scale in terms of the fracs I mean -- the frac generally is roughly 50% of any of these resource play total well costs 50%.
And that's the piece we're really attacking to say we have to get control of our frac costs and not be dependent on other traditional service companies if we're going to be the cost leader in this resource play business.
And I think we're quite a bit ahead of most everybody else on where we're moving on that piece of the business.
Next is Joe Magner with Macquarie.
With the successful test of the northeastern fault block in the Eagle Ford can you just remind us how that's captured in your 900 million barrel resource estimate? Yes Joe.
As I kind of stated in my editorial comment there I don't believe the 900 million barrels is even remotely captured in our current stock price.
And so if we were to say wow we have a new fault block and it increased our barrels from 900 to x I'll consider doing that if and when I see the 900 million barrels that we already have reflected in the stock price.
So don't look for us to make any adjustments to the 900 million barrels based on one well one fault block or anything like that.
But obviously it's an area that we hadn't given any credit to and we found it on the 3D seismic and drilled it.
And right now this Eagle Ford's turning out to be one of those things that you almost have to pinch yourself and say this is too good to be true.
100% success rate across 120 miles is just phenomenal.
So that's a good nonanswer to your question but that's the explanation I'll give you Joe.
All right I'll that for now.
And then just over on the Niobrara I wonder if you'd be willing to comment.
There have been some challenges discussed by industry participants between completing wells in the fracs area and the matrix area.
Just wondering if you'd be willing to comment on any progress you've made overcoming some of those challenges or coming up with solutions to address those? I think we're just not quite sure of how much the 2 completion techniques are integrated and how they're competing.
So we're just really gathering data on all of that.
We're doing micro seismic and other techniques to determine and figure out how those plays work.
So I'd say we're just really too early to say much about that.
Joe I mean one thing we will offer up there is that there seem to be a couple of different play types fracture versus matrix and it's really leading us to 2 distinctly different completion types depending on where we are in the Niobrara.
So that's what made it a little bit harder and slower for us to really kind of get a handle on what kind of an oilfield we've really have captured here because it's -- we kind of have night and day completion techniques depending on which particular type of rock we're attacking with that particular well.
And are you able to understand the type of rock you're going to be completing based on seismic or some sort of mapping? How do you determine going in which completion technique you're going to be able to use on that oil? Yes.
I would just say right now we think we have a proprietary edge on our understanding of the Niobrara and we really don't want to give any more of it away on this call.
Okay fair enough.
Hearing no response we'll move to David Tameron Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions.
If I just look at the acreage positions it looks like you sold down your Niobrara you're at I guess 220 net now.
Is that the right number? Then similar in the -- you sold-out 70 000 or so in the Eagle Ford is that accurate? No.
In the Eagle Ford that's not accurate.
When we talk about the 520 000 that's how much is in the oil window.
And then we've got roughly another 70 000 that's in either the wet gas or the dry gas window.
So there's been no change in our aggregate Eagle Ford acreage position.
In the Niobrara yes we have sold a bit of acreage there and that's really didn't want to but this is part of what we need to do to raise the $1 billion in property sales for this year.
LLC</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then if you think about the Wolfcamp can you talk about from our perspective modeling et cetera what decline rates should we be thinking about? I know it's early but what have you seen from these wells? Can you just give us some color there? Yes what we have so far in Wolfcamp were 6 wells with completions and 5 of those we have online long enough that we can do good 30-day averages with some confidence.
And out of those 5 we actually talked about 4 of them on the IR slide I believe they averaged about 350 barrels of oil per day.
One that didn't make the slide was an earlier shorter lateral that averaged about 190 barrels of oil per day in its first 30 days.
Decline rates are kind of similar to what we're seeing in a lot of these oil plays.
They're fairly steep in the first few months and then they tend to flatten out.
We've given you in the past I think 270 Mboe or 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent net after royalty per well is the number that we're working with right now.
I'd say that based on these first 4 wells we're pretty confident we can hit at least that.
And in fact they're a little bit above the curve at present.
And we've also given you a breakdown that shows about 55% oil and 23% NGLs for a total of 78% liquids over the life of that and only 22% gas.
So I would say in terms of decline curves they're not dissimilar to our other oil plays.
David I'll give a little more color in addition to what Loren said on the Wolfcamp.
We're particularly enthused about the Wolfcamp.
Our 120 000 acres and if you look back I believe it was a previous quarter's IR presentation.
We quoted at kind of a direct IRR on that after-tax of roughly 25% I believe.
And if you just look at the numbers you'd say well Wolfcamp is lower return play than the rest of our oil plays.
What that 25% kind of represents is kind of stage one of optimization on the Wolfcamp.
We think that we can easily beat down the cost on the Wolfcamp play particularly with self-sourced sand in that particular play.
And probably get higher reserves.
So I guess what we'd say is we're in the first half inning of the Wolfcamp.
If we're in the first inning of the Eagle Ford game we're in the first half inning on the Wolfcamp and the data we see today tells us that we can turn this into a rate of return play that's probably similar to the Bakken or the Combo once we get into some kind of optimization mode on it.
But for the rest of this year what we're going to be doing in the Wolfcamp is exploring on -- so that we've got at least one well down and pretty much all the portions of our 120 000 acres.
Right now we're only kind of concentrating on I believe it's 47 000 of those acres.
And so we're going to be working on that and then working on what can we do with both well costs length of laterals optimization the fracs.
For example the well I mentioned on the earnings call the last well I mentioned there we tried a completely different frac style than we've done in the first several fracs.
And it looks we have a better result based on early early times.
So I would say we rank Wolfcamp pretty high on our priority list.
But it's really as far as a contributor to EOG volume growth and really getting into a drilling mode that's going to be a 2012 event for us.
LLC</strong> All right.
A lot of good color.
I appreciate it.
And our next question comes Ray Deacon from Pritchard Capital Partners.
LLC</strong> All my questions have already been answered.
And next is David Wheeler AllianceBernstein.
On the return to the Eagle Ford you mentioned the returns are 95% to 140% at the strip but at a $6 million well cost.
If well costs come down to $5 million what does that do to the returns.
They're almost sinful to repeat.
They are consistently north of 100% is what we can say.
It makes a big difference to knock it from $6 million to $5 million.
So that's why I'm so excited about the play David is we're looking at a play that at least on a direct basis is going to yield us north of 100% rate of return for $10 billion to $15 billion of investment.
And if you think across every other single E&amp;P company in the world I can't think of one who's got this sort of investment opportunity particularly in a let's say a relatively benign climate like Texas and the United States as opposed to some foreign country.
And I really think that it's just -- people just haven't realized exactly what EOG has captured here.
And again I'm sorry I'm blowing off on the editorial comment.
But you led me into it there when you said what happens when the well cost gets knocked down $1 million a well.
Sounds like it could be its own company there.
You're self-sourcing and you mentioned the Wolfcamp.
How much could well costs come down in your other plays self-sourcing frac and you've talked a lot about how you're going to do it in the Eagle Ford.
How many different plays can you self-source and how much could costs come down in those plays? We're looking at all of our large resource plays where we've got pattern drilling in completion.
Right now we've got about 50% of our frac fleets that are self-sourced they're dedicated or day work sort of fleet.
And we'd probably rather not say right now.
We're still putting our interim sand in place and then we've got the large mine that will be coming on late this year first of the year.
But it makes a significant impression on our cost.
And when Mark mentions going from $6 million to $5 million a big part of that is associated with the dedicated fleets in our own process.
I think the same range of numbers roughly $1 million reduction is what we're envisioning for the Wolfcamp for example.
And right now our priorities for the self-sourced sands are first the Eagle Ford level.
First of all all of our Barnett stuff is currently self-sourced.
But then in terms of new fields Eagle Ford is first priority Wolfcamp is probably second priority and Marcellus probably third priority as we would see it today.
And these will get noted in beginning late this year and then hopefully by mid-2012 we've got them all 3 of those areas working with the self-sourcing.
That's great.
And can you remind us it sounded like you didn't want to compare the trucking costs out of Eagle Ford versus of the new rail costs.
But as we go from trucking/rail to ultimately pipeline what's the approximate improvement in the costs per barrel? Well on the first part of that we'll give you a general number.
The rail versus the trucking current conditions will probably in the Eagle Ford we're probably gaining $4 to $5 a barrel versus trucking on there.
And that's cost and realizations combined? Yes that's costs and realizations combined because we're not getting full LLS price right now.
We're having to share of that with some terminal operators with the terminus of the line over there.
Ultimately the pipeline cost is going to be I guess a very pleasant relative to either the current rail or certainly the current trucking costs.
And right now the pipeline terminus is basically the Houston area.
So we'll be getting in to the Houston ship channel which oil prices today delivered at Houston ship channel are about midway between LLS and WTI on there.
So at this juncture the rail is it's not obvious the rail is going to be the long-term answer once that pipeline gets in.
It looks like the pipeline will be the cheapest David.
Okay that's great.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the conference over to our host for any closing or additional remarks.
I have no further closing remarks.
Thank you very much and we'll talk again next quarter.
Thank you very much.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Mark Papa.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing second quarter 2011 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
Effective January 1 2010 the SEC now permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast including those for the Eagle Ford may include estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release and Investor Relations page of our website.
With me this morning are Bill Thomas Senior EVP Exploration; Gary Thomas Senior EVP Operations; Tim Driggers Vice President and CFO; and Maire Baldwin Vice President Investor Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website last night and we included third quarter and updated full year guidance in yesterday's press release.
I'll now review our second quarter net income and cash flow followed by operational highlights.
In addition to our typical play results I'm going to also address several hot-button topics such as weather-related downtime logistical issues and our plan to deal with the wide differential in crude oil prices between benchmark WTI and LLS.
Tim Driggers will provide some financial details and then I'll provide macro and hedging comments along with concluding remarks.
As outlined in the press release for the second quarter EOG reported net income of $295.6 million or $1.10 per share.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP net income to eliminate mark-to-market impacts and certain one-time adjustments as outlined in the press release EOG's second quarter adjusted net income was $299.2 million or $1.11 per share.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP discretionary cash flow EOG's DCF for the second quarter was $1.15 billion.
I'll now discuss our 2011 business plan and operational results.
Our business plan continues to be consistent and straightforward.
We've completed the organic conversion to a liquids-based company by exploiting our world-class North American horizontal oil positions while preserving 100% of our core North American natural gas resource play assets and maintaining a low net debt to total capital ratio.
Our investments in higher rate of return domestic oil plays will flow through the income statement as net income increases and show up as superior ROEs and ROCEs.
There have been 2 changes since the last quarter regarding the capital side of the business.
We've increased our anticipated 2011 asset sales from $1.0 billion to $1.6 billion.
The incremental $600 million of sales are primarily mature long-lived domestic gas properties and other acreage.
None of these sales involve any of our horizontal oil or gas resource plays.
Through mid-year we've closed our $944 million of sales and we have signed purchase and sale agreements on another $271 million worth.
Although we expect to close all $1.6 billion by year-end it's possible some of these may not close until the first quarter of next year.
However this $600 million of incremental dispositions will be partially offset by a $400 million CapEx increase primarily caused by higher service costs.
Later in this call I'll describe our plans to mitigate these costs in 2012 with our self-sourced fracs.
We've recently had a lot of investor inquiries regarding weather-related downtime and crude oil takeaway logistics.
Here's our situation.
In the second quarter we incurred the expected amount of weather-related downtime in our North Dakota Bakken operations.
We also had a small amount of downtime in our Barnett Combo play due to the lack of crude oil trucks.
Because of the transportation contracts we put in place early this year in the Eagle Ford we were able to move oil to sales and had no unusual crude takeaway downtime in that area.
Since mid-March we've also had weather-related downtime in our Manitoba Waskada play.
Going into the second half the downtime in Manitoba has continued and Bakken production also continues to be impacted by a residual flooding.
Due to do this impact we've slightly revised our full year oil growth from 55% to 52% a total of 2 400 barrels per day from a previous midpoint target of 115 800 [ph] barrels per day a very small tweak to the big picture.
Our total company full year growth target of 9.5% is unchanged as is our NGL estimate.
We still forecast a dramatic 50-plus percent year-over-year growth in crude oil production.
You'll also note that our second quarter domestic realized oil price versus WTI was slightly better than similarly situated oil producers.
This is primarily because of our Bakken crude-by-rail system and having a dedicated truck fleet to service Eagle Ford.
During the North Dakota spring flooding even with some rerouting of trains this crude-by-rail system allowed us to move our crude at much better differentials and by truck.
We've also had a lot of investor inquiries relating to persistent WTI to LLS crude differential and we think we're better prepared to deal with this in 2012 than any similarly-situated producer.
We expect to have a capability to rail most of our Bakken and some of our Eagle Ford production to Louisiana instead of Cushing in 2012.
And if this differential persists we should capture the higher margin.
Lastly we signed an agreement for 70 000-barrel a day unit train offloading facility to be built in St.
James Louisiana.
The EOG-owned facility is expected to be in service late in the first quarter 2012.
With our rail system next year we'll have the flexibly to move crude to EOG-owned facilities at either Cushing or Louisiana.
In the second quarter our total company production increased 11.6% year-over-year and more importantly crude oil increased 50% and NGLs 38% year-over-year.
At EOG we realized that in a $4 gas price world increasing gas production is at best marginally profitable while growing liquids is quite profitable.
Consequently I'm amazed that any buy- or sell-side analyst accords any importance to North American gas production growth which is pushing more gas into an already over-supplied market.
During the second quarter 105% of EOG's total volume growth came from liquids as opposed to gas.
With today's 22:1 value ratio differential between oil and gas we think that that adjusted production both metric is essentially useless.
What matters is EPS EBITDA and cash flow per share growth.
The IR presentation we placed on our website yesterday shows an independent analysis of how EOG ranks versus appears for the 2010 through 2012 period on these metrics.
EOG shows up as best in class and I suggest you review this.
That's the payoff for our organic oil growth that's unmatched by any company our size.
I'll now discuss the major drivers of our oil growth starting with the Eagle Ford.
As most of you know this is the hottest play in the U.S.
and EOG has the largest net position in the oil and wet gas windows 561 000 acres of any company in the trade.
We continue to be the biggest producer from the oil window with net after royalty production of 34 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day at the end of the second quarter 83% of which is crude oil.
I expect we'll consistently be the largest Eagle Ford net oil producer for the next decade.
We're continuing our high activity level to vest our leases since essentially all our acreage is prospective.
Our press release contains multiple individual well results.
So rather than providing you a well-by-well recitation I'll provide some context regarding the overall play.
There are 4 key points.
First our well results continue to be remarkably consistent across our 120-mile acreage spread and we've been 100% successful on completions.
Our typical IP rates throughout the trend range from 700 to 1 600 barrels of oil per day plus gas and NGLs.
As we stated on previous calls our Eagle Ford drilling rates return are excellent.
We think they are the best of any large play in the industry.
The IR slides posted to our website show one sell-side analysis of forecasted first month Eagle Ford per-well revenue for EOG and the peers and we're happy to see that our wells rank first.
This is indicative of our well quality compared to others in either the oil or rich gas windows.
Second we estimate there to be approximately 21 billion net after royalty Boe's in place within our 535 000 net acres in the oil window.
Our current stated net after royalty oil recovery potential is 900 million Boe which we believe is the largest lower 48 onshore domestic net oil discovery in the last 40 years.
This represents about 4% of total recovery of total oil in place and now that we've got the reservoir characterized we're working on ways to improve this recovery factor.
In the short-term these potential recovery factor improvements fall into 2 categories: improving per well reserves; or reducing well spacing to maximize the NPV of the play.
We're working on both of these and we have encouraging news to report today regarding preliminary well spacing results.
Our 900 million Boe net after royalty potential recoverable reserve estimate assumes approximately 130 acre well spacing.
As noted in our press release we've recently experimented with tighter spacing and early results indicate that tighter spacing may be more optimum.
It's too early to quantify the reserve impact of closer spacing but it's definitely positive.
Simply put we need more time to observe the production of these more closely-spaced wells.
Third during the first quarter we've had 2 independent ratifications of our Eagle Ford acreage value.
The first was the Marathon purchase which most analysts have valued at about $21 000 per acre.
We believe EOG's 561 000 net acres have a higher average geologic and product quality than this transaction.
The second ratification was the BHP purchase of Petrohawk.
Both the size and quality of our acreage we believe significantly surpasses the Petrohawk position.
I'll also remind everyone that at its first movement in the oil window our acreage acquisition costs was approximately $450 per acre.
And fourth last quarter I noted some Eagle Ford crude oil takeaway issues.
To date our interim trucking and rail car logistical solutions have allowed us to avoid any shut-ins and we're hopeful we can handle our increasing oil volumes until mid-2012 when the enterprise oil pipeline is installed.
As you've undoubtedly heard on multiple earnings calls everything in the Eagle Ford is tight: rigs frac equipment and crews sand and product takeaway capacity.
So far we've dodged a lot of bullets and haven't had to slow our 2011 program down because of bottlenecks.
We expect to begin using frac sand from our Wisconsin sand mine in the fourth quarter which will reduce our well cost and provide a reliable sand source.
To provide some scale for you this facility will ultimately serve most of our North American resource plays.
By combining forecast changes and company costs with the self-sourcing of frac sand in the Eagle Ford we expect to save about $1 million per well compared to early 2011 well cost.
To summarize the Eagle Ford we have the largest and best quality acreage position in the hottest play in the U.S.
which is generating very strong per-well direct after-tax reinvestment rate of returns.
As with all our oil resource plays we intend to develop these asset without a JV.
Shifting to the Bakken.
We continue to be the largest North Dakota oil producer and achieve consistent results.
We plan to drill 106 gross wells this year and we're pleased to note that a recent sell-side analysis of Bakken peak oil production rate per well ranked us second of 17 companies.
This attests to the performance of our wells.
The main issue in the Bakken during the second quarter wasn't well performance it was weather.
As you've undoubtedly heard by now from other area producers.
In our May guidance we correctly forecast for downtime from the severe ice storm in the second quarter but we underestimated the impact that the recent flooding in the Bakken and Manitoba Waskada areas would have on our full year production.
As of today we still have production shut-in in both areas because of flooding.
Net-net these flooding is the main reason we slightly shaved our full-year oil production forecast.
Our Barnett Combo play is also performing well but we did have a small amount of second quarter oil and NGL production curtailed due to lack of crude oil trucks.
We think this problem has been resolved.
We continue to tweak our Combo frac designs and have recently achieved a higher initial oil and gas rates per well.
We hope this translates into higher reserves before the treated lateral but it will take 6 months to determine the results.
Our press release also noted a new successful mid-continent horizontal oil play the Marmaton sandstone in the Oklahoma Panhandle.
During the quarter we drilled 8 strong Marmaton wells such as the 100% working interest Davis 3 No.
1H which IP-ed at 1 050 barrels of oil per day with 5 million cubic a per day of rich gas for a $4.3 million well cost.
We had 34 000 net acres in this play.
Because we don't have a huge acreage position this will be a contributory rather than a gain-breaking play for EOG but it will help us grow mid-continent liquid volumes.
In the West Texas Permian Basin we've had success in all 3 of our oil plays.
The Wolfcamp Leonard and Bone Springs.
We have a total of 240 000 net acres that are likely productive in one or multiple intervals.
As we see it now the biggest of these 3 plays for EOG is the Wolfcamp.
During the quarter we successfully proved that new acreage with the 100% working interest to University 9 #2802H which tested at a peak rate of 583 barrels of oil per day and 250 Mcf a day of gas.
We also completed a well with a long 9 100-foot lateral for 935 barrels of oil per day with 830 Mcf a day of gas.
As with all new resource plays we've rapidly reduced both our drilling and frac costs and thereby improved RORs.
We recently drilled the Wolfcamp well to 14 200 feet measured depths in 7 days which is excellent.
We have achieved similar positive well results in both the Leonard and Bone Springs.
In 2012 we'll be ramping up our Permian Basin oil drilling now that we have multiple proven successes in all 3 plays.
This will develop into a more significant growth area for us in 2012 and beyond and we expect the total net reserve estimate here to increase over time.
In our DJ Basin Niobrara Play we've expanded the acreage we've proven up.
All the results reported to date had been on our 80 000 net acre Hereford Ranch prospect.
This quarter we drilled successful wells on an additional 89 000 net acres expanding our prospective acreage to 169 000 net acres.
The Niobrara has some unique production characteristics that we haven't seen in any other oil resource play.
Some wells start out at lower initial rates but then exhibit much flatter declines in other plays.
For example the well that kicked off the play the Jake 2-01H started out at a  645 barrel of oil per day stabilized rate and is currently producing 275 barrels of oil per day a low decline rate 22 months later.
To summarize the Niobrara this will definitely be a contributory play for us and with optimized frac technology we might turn it into an even more significant asset.
Last quarter I introduced our successful Wyoming Powder River Basin Turner sandstone horizontal liquids play.
We didn't drill any Turner wells this quarter but we plan to drill 7 additional wells during the second half.
During the quarter we also added 100 000 net acres in Argentina's Neuquen Basin.
Our target is the Vaca Muerta shale which we believe will be oil-productive.
We'll drill our first 2 wells in 2012.
Turning to the dry gas side of the ledger.
We continue to focus essentially all natural gas investments in areas where we must drill to hold acreage mainly the Marcellus and Haynesville shales.
We're continuing to generate consistent well results in these areas.
In British Columbia you've likely already heard Kitimat project status updates from in Encana and Apache and we concur with their status comments.
Like them we're excited about the project but it's not yet a done deal.
The project is contingent upon the cost estimate study and ability to lock in long-term oil index off that contracts.
I'll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Good morning.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $14.8 million.
For the second quarter 2011 total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.64 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $180 million.
At second quarter end 2011 total debt outstanding was $5.2 billion and the debt-to-total-capitalization ratio was 30%.
At June 30 we have $1.6 billion of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $3.6 billion or net-debt-to-total-capital ratio of 23%.
On a GAAP reporting basis the effective tax rate for the second quarter was 46% and the deferred tax ratio was 71%.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with the earnings press release for the third quarter and updated full year 2011.
For the third quarter the effective tax range is 35% to 50%.
For the full year 2011 the effective tax range is 35% to 45%.
We have also provided an estimated range of the dollar amount of current taxes that we expect to record during the third quarter and for the full year.
For each $1 per barrel change in wellhead crude oil and condensate price combined with the related change in NGL price the sensitivity is approximately $24 million for net income and $36 million for operating cash flow.
EOG's price sensitivity for each $0.10 per Mcf change in wellhead natural gas prices is approximately $15 million for net income and $23 million for operating cash flow excluding the impact of swaptions.
Now I'll turn it back to Mark to discuss hedging and provide his concluding remarks.
Thanks Tim.
Now I'll discuss our views regarding macro and hedging.
Regarding crude oil we still like both the short- and long-term supply demand fundamentals although guessing which way short-term prices will move is obviously a speculative call.
We currently are 26% hedged August through December of this year at a $97.02 price.
And for 2012 we're approximately 7% hedged at a $106.37 price.
We continued to have a 1- to 3-year cautionary view regarding North American gas prices but believe 2014 and later markets will balance as gas-powered electricity demand increases.
For this reason we have no interest in growing 2011 North American gas volumes at current price levels.
Our hedges are consistent with our macro view.
The North American natural gas we're approximately 50% hedged at a $4.90 price for September through December of this year.
Additionally we've sold options at a $4.73 price net of exercise.
It would mean we're 88% hedged through year-end.
For 2012 we're approximately 39% hedged at a $5.44 price.
With options net of exercise it will increase to a 70% hedged level at a $5.44 price.
Now let me summarize.
In my opinion there are 6 important points to take away from this call.
First our reinvestment RORs are very strong.
I think they're the best in the industry led by the Eagle Ford.
This is driving our EPS EBITDA and cash flow per share growth.
Second we believe our unit cost containment this year is excellent considering the inflationary environment.
Third we're the leading oil producer in the 2 hottest and highest ROR domestic oil plays the Bakken and Eagle Ford.
No one our size is growing domestic oil volumes comparably to EOG.
All of our plays are onshore and all of the oil is sweet and high quality.
This quality crude is in demand by refineries and we'll be able to access LLS prices early in 2012.
Fourth we're not interested in growing North American gas volumes at current prices unlike most other companies.
Fifth we're accomplishing all this while maintaining low debt.
And sixth I'll be 65 years old next month and it's appropriate that investors may want to know my plans.
I plan to be in the current job for at least the next 18 months and when I do retire my successor will be a long-tenured EOG employee who has the EOG DNA.
Across our 10 operating divisions in North America the average tenure of our general managers is 17 years.
Here in Houston Bill Thomas and Gary Thomas Senior Executive Vice Presidents of Exploration and Operations have a combined 65 years at EOG.
As with any public company we have succession planning discussions with our board and when appropriate we'll announce when decisions have been made.
Thanks for listening.
And now we'll go to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions]  Our first question comes from the line of Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Just in the Niobrara can you provide us with the resource estimate update on the 160 000 net acres that you think are de-risk at this point? Yes.
We haven't really come out with the resource estimate yet on there.
I mean it's no secret that the Niobrara has proven to be I'd say one of the more complex horizontal oil plays that both we and the industry have dealt with.
I'm sure you're aware there's been mixed results from various companies in the Niobrara.
I'm pleased to say EOG probably has the best results in Niobrara than any company.
But we're still in kind of an understanding and evaluation phase of it as opposed to -- so we really don't want to give a number at this point in time because there's pretty wide range.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Well maybe just on the Hereford Ranch area even if the not total resource what are you seeing sort of at the average EUR per well? Or just some context on that.
Yes Brian I'd say the averages is probably in the 200 225 barrels of oil equivalent range.
The good thing we're seeing on these wells is that many of them -- they don't come in at really extremely high IPs.
They'll come in at say 300 or 400 barrels per day.
But after a year or so they're still making 200 barrels a day.
So the decline rates are really low and that's very encouraging to us.
We also had a lot of encouragement on our step-out drilling as Mark's indicated in his comments and in our press release.
And so just overall we're real positive in what's going on and I really think it's going to be a significant play for EOG.
But again we want to have a little bit more time to drill some more wells and to evaluate the production before we come out with a reserve potential number.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
First on the Bakken and the Eagle Ford can you talk to the costs associated with railing that to Louisiana i.e.
how should we think about the combination of quality and transport differential? And then can you also maybe add some color on where your current rates are relative to the second quarter average whether we see a step up? Yes.
In terms of when you say current rates you talk about oil production rates or...
Oil production rates that's right yes.
Yes.
What we're programming this year for the Bakken is not a particularly strong step-up in oil production rates in the second half of the year compared to the first half.
Where the growth is going to come in oil production rates is primarily from the Eagle Ford and secondarily from 3 different areas really.
The biggest secondary area will be the Combo play and then also some contributions from the plays in the Permian Basin and Mid-Continent.
In terms of the rail cost we haven't disclosed the cost or incremental cost to rail it from Cushing to St.
James Louisiana and because it's possible we may be conducting third-party business there.
And I don't want to give any proprietary information away but what I can say is relative to the current price value differential between LLS and WTI it's totally obvious that we would if those differentials exist next year we'll be rail coloring every possible barrel we can to St.
James as opposed to Cushing.
And then as a follow-up going back to the Niobrara can you talk a little bit as to why you think you're seeing the flatter declines and flatter IPs there? And in the past I think you've highlighted that unique frac technique though I think you mentioned in your comments that you needed to optimize fracs further and if you'd add some color there.
Brian I guess early on with some of the wells that came on with high IPs we were thinking this was really more of an open fracture play.
But as time goes along and we see more production from the wells we're realizing that we're getting some contribution from the kind of system profitability which would be a kind of a combination of maybe some new some micro fracture system and the matrix firm.
The wells wouldn't be so low decline.
So that's what gives us encouragement and it does pay.
As you don't have open fracture systems you really need to stimulate a lot more and so it's really important for us to continue to learn and to refine our completion techniques to make this successful.
And we don't have to get a low cost down on the play because the IPs are not that high.
So we've got some work to do but we certainly see a really good encouragement from the results so far.
And Brian let me just give a little more color which may be helpful to people on the call.
If you look at what's going on with the Niobrara I'd say the play is kind of a liquids-rich play that most similar to it in one respect was the Barnett Combo and that the reason we basically own the Barnett Combo play in that overwhelmingly dominant acreage over there is because that play was very technically tough to turn into good economics.
And so hence everybody else shied away from it.
And it took us several years to turn that into the kind of play we wanted to and right now we're really accruing the benefits from the Combo play which is giving us extremely strong economics.
The Niobrara is kind of like that in that it's not a slamdunk.
The Eagle Ford and the Bakken were slamdunks.
We came out of there in the first inning and hit homeruns and those were just easier rocks to deal with.
So some of these plays are ones that because the rock quality is superior you can knock the ball out of the park right in the first inning and some of them takes you 'til the fifth inning or so before you knock the ball out of the park.
And right now with the Niobrara we're probably in the third inning or so on that one.
Our next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Just wondered if you could kind of comment on what you're seeing on the Eagle Ford in terms of recovery factors.
I think you mentioned 4% Mark I think you had previously had a range of maybe somewhere around 3% to 4% roughly a year ago.
I just wanted to get a sense of what you thought was responsible for some of the uplift and maybe sort of any guess as to kind of where you think this number might migrate to over time if you think there's going to be some upside there.
Yes I'd say our view is that there will be upward pressure on our $900 million of net after royalty reserve estimate there.
Generally we have been -- that estimate was based on a 130-acre spacing which in rough terms translates to maybe a 1 200-foot to 1 500-foot between lateral wells.
And we're now in the process that we have 2 to 3 months production history from wells spaced more closely and we're drilling a lot of the wells that are currently being drilled or on this more closed spacing.
And the initial reservoir simulation results actual production results are encouraging but as usual we're pretty cautious in giving out estimates.
So we could come out with some flashy number right now but we just wanted to get more well results than the 3 wells that we have at down-spaced conditions and watch production for a while before we give you any additional numbers on the Eagle Ford reserves.
LLC</strong> Got you okay.
I guess just jumping over to the Wolfcamp play.
I think you guys are seeing favorably higher production rates rather than sort of your last round of updates in the well that I guess did just over 1 000 BOE per day when you throw in the gas.
Just wanted to get a sense to what's happening there if you guys are continuing to experiment with different frac techniques.
I know you mentioned longer laterals on that particular well.
What do you think's driving sort of the better production there? Leo there's kind of several things going on.
I think certainly the longer laterals is making a big contribution to the better wells.
We've also recently continued to tweak our completion techniques and we now have I think in the last call we had 1 well.
We now have 7 wells that we completed with the new frac technique.
And these 7 wells are averaging over the first 30 to 60 days about 15% to 20% better production than the old kind of completion techniques.
So we don't haven't upgraded our EURs yet.
We are watching more a little bit longer.
But that's also very very very encouraging.
We've also drilled a number of step-up wells to prove up additional acreage.
And so we're very encouraged about this looking at plays.
It's moving along very nicely.
We're getting our costs down.
We're proven up additional acreage and then we're improving those results from the wells that we're drilling.
So it's all doing really well.
And our next question comes from the line of Scott Wilmoth with Simmons &amp; Company.
Guy you mentioned the Wisconsin sand mine coming online in 4Q could provide an upstand for most of your resource plays.
You guys quantified the impact in the Eagle Ford.
What could that mean to cost savings across your portfolio or maybe in terms of total CapEx for next year? If we use this sand and we have our dedicated frac fleets on maybe [indiscernible] most of our wells there in the Eagle Ford.
We already have that going in the Barnett.
We're going to use this sand also in Pittsburgh some also in West Texas.
We could probably look in its savings around $400 million just on the sand part.
Then we have the benefit of the dedicated frac fleets and that improved efficiency there.
We have these contracted to similar to what we have drilling rates contracted to us just a day work basis.
And then when I think about rig activity in the Eagle Ford currently at 22 rigs can you talk about initial plans you are running into 2012 and what your future activity level needs to be to hold your acreage in the future? Yes.
We right now we're planning on ramping up our activity in the Eagle Ford.
And that's obviously going to be function to some degree of oil prices.
So we're going to drill 250 wells this year in the Eagle Ford and as a minimum we'll drill 250 wells next year there.
And in terms of some of the other areas there we'll just being deciding what is the cash flow that we're going to generate next year and then try to balance it here.
And obviously this is -- we made -- depending on what oil prices do is a big function there.
And our next question comes from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Mark can you -- I think you might have mentioned but I missed it.
Can you talk about what the recovery rates are right now in Eagle Ford or what do you think the recovery rates are? Yes about 4% David.
LLC</strong> Okay 4% and it does -- you said the additional downspacing what do you think that would take you to adjust that if that would work for tighter spacing? We haven't said.
Yes all we're saying is there if the downspacing works the recovery factor will likely be higher than 4% but no quantification on how much higher.
LLC</strong> Okay okay.
And then on the M&amp;A on the divestiture front the $1.6 billion additional $600 million you've said are in core plays.
Did you characterize gas versus oil or kind of what's the midstream? Is it EMP appropriate? Can you give us a little more color there? As far as the producing properties that we're selling all of that is gas properties.
Most of it is properties that we've had for some time like East Texas and we're selling scattered properties in the Mid-Continent Gulf of Mexico properties offshore.
And that's approximately half of our overall dispositions and the balance of that is leasehold facilities.
Our next question comes from the line of Irene Hass with Wunderlich Securities.
This is my question.
It seems like you guys have got these resource plays down to a sign specifically in Midland basin the horizontal Wolfcamp play.
What do you think is the optimal link? I noticed that you still have some EUR up there on your presentation.
Could there be upside to it? I'm just kind of wondering how much it's cost to drill and complete this play particular? Are you going for multiple benches? Are you focused on bench a b or c? And that's all I have for you today.
Yes Irene we've been drilling laterals anywhere from 6 000 to 9 000 feet.
And a link to a lateral depends on a larger percentage of geology and the lease parameters and things like that.
Of course we're drilling as long as we can to make better wells generally to get higher rates of return on that.
We are testing multiple spacing patterns.
We're drilling some wells on 990-foot spacing between laterals and some on 660-foot spacing and we are we primarily only tested the middle Wolfcamp.
It's got 3 different pays over about 1 000 feet of gross intervals so there's a lot of oil and gas in place.
And there's 3 potential pay zones.
We've primarily been testing the middle pay.
Well we do have plans to test the upper pay.
And so there's a lot of work to be done.
There's enormous amount of potential and it's going really well.
The well costs are running right now about $5.4 million a well and they're steadily going down.
Our group in West Texas are doing a great job of getting the cost down.
Our next question comes from the line of John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
2 quick ones.
With Argentina you said 2012 drillings.
What are you going to do for things like frac equipment? It's not a country that's well known for having large fleets.
Yes I mean there is a small amount of frac equipment in-country right now and then the major service companies are in the process of shifting additional frac equipment down there.
And for the first couple of wells it's going to be kind of one-off deals that we'll have to schedule months and months in advance to get the fracs done.
But our logic is if this shale turns out to be something that is commercial and productive that you'll see them particularly the major service companies just move equipment in there in the 2013 through 2015 timeframe.
So it's -- we're pretty optimistic about the quality of that shale.
We charge our people with -- the only way we go outside North America is if we could find the shale an oil shale that we thought looked superior to Eagle Ford and we believe we found one there.
So time will tell.
So it wasn't the beef? No it wasn't the beef John.
Okay.
With the Wolfcamp how optimistic should we be? It's pretty thick interval shale interval.
How excited are you about it? Or can you put it in context of you other plays? Yes.
In relative terms we're pretty excited about the Wolfcamp.
That one we think that we have a very good chance of making consistently good wells there.
So on a scale whereby we kind of said in this call that the Mid-Continent Marmaton was going to be a contributory play and we said the Niobrara was a contributory play and maybe we could get it someday to be more than a contributory play I would say that Wolfcamp's got a chance to be a kind of a game-breaking play for us in the Permian basin as opposed to just a contributory play.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> If we think about crude by rail do you worry that some of your competitors will follow what you've done and get to a point where the rail system can no longer support that export capacity? And what do you think that limit of export capacity could be? Yes we're not -- I mean the limitation right now Bob is not the rail system.
It's tanker cars.
That's where the real shortage is it's tanker cars and external link capacity in Louisiana.
Right now we investigated for example a greenfield rail car terminal in Louisiana.
The problem is the time to get the permits the time to construct the greenfield plant.
You're looking at minimum of 12 months from start time probably more like 18 months.
So what we've done is we've teamed up with a company whose got an existing terminal system there a company called NuStar and all we're going to do is augment that with building a rail car facility.
The issue is everyone would like to get their crude there but right now the issues are weaker rail car crude there and there are some rail terminals in Louisiana except that they will capture those along the terminals capture all the economic rent of that high LLS-WTI differential.
So there's no benefit to producers to go through those terminals.
So that's why we're going essentially through our own system there where we can capture that economic rent.
I'll also say that we're quoting the nameplate capacity at 70 000 barrels a day but we can very readily upscale that to 140 000 barrels a day without a whole lot of incremental investment.
So the issue there is we don't think there's going to be a lot of people who are able to move this stuff by rail car just because the barrier to entry is 12 to 18 months of greenfield facility.
So we think we will be advantaged in 2012 and the first half of 2013 relative to pretty much any other producer in ability to move crude to get the LLS price.
So and on a timing issue I mean you're aware as is most people that the real question is when will there will be an additional pipeline system out of Cushing to the Gulf Coast? And every time I look it looks like that's been delayed or slowed down a bit more.
And so it looks like to me that at least through 2012 and by the early 2013 there's going to be some kind of a differential pretty high differential between Cushing and LLS.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Morris with Citi.
In the Eagle Ford what are your well costs running currently? They're running at about $6 million 8 drill wells.
Okay.
Things last quarter.
So with the sand mine or sand source in the quarter reducing well cost by $1 million.
You've also noted your budget increase is still pretty persistent service cost inflation.
So to what extent will that bathing on the sand be offset by inflation and other components here? And what do you expect the average well cost in Eagle Ford to be next year? We would say that the average well cost next year would probably be less than somewhere in the $5 million to $5.5 million next year.
We are seeing cost creep there that just because it's such an active area both there and the Bakken that's where we've seen the increased cost to maybe somewhere 8% and 10% for 2011 above 2010.
But there's more equipment that's being brought into the Eagle Ford so I think yes we'll see that subside.
Okay Bob one way to look at it is we kind of quoted some economics and quoted a well cost to $6 million.
We are seeing upward pressure on that currently and we quoted about $1 million of savings for all this frac stuff when we get in place in the Eagle Ford.
But probably now there'll be $1 million savings but that'll be offset by maybe $0.25 million price increase just for this cost pressure.
So $5.25 million next year may be a reasonable cost estimate.
You'll remember we quoted knockout economics it's $6 million cost.
So we'll have these reduced costs but I believe will be absolute best reinvestment rate of returns of any play in North America.
So we feel pretty good about that.
Good.
On the service cost side obviously everybody is pretty have pretty good margins of returns in these oil plays.
When do you think some of this service cost inflation will begin to level out here? We're seeing it level out.
Last year we were seeing for instance stimulation costs were up 30% to 50%.
And this year we've got areas where it's flat and in areas like the Rockies I mentioned again it's up 15% to 20%.
But Mid-Continent's up only about 5%.
So we're seeing some of that flattening with the additional equipment that's being constructed and put in place.
Our next question comes from the line of Rehan Rashid with FBR Capital Markets.
Along the same lines when -- how long are your typical drilling or completion contracts for? What I'm trying to get to is oil -- before oil prices contract or stay lower how long before you kind of get some of those inflation numbers back to you before you deal? Yes I mean that's a good question.
If you take our overall drilling rigs we're running roughly 70 72 rigs.
We've currently got about half of them contracted long-term.
Long-term means generally 1 year or 2 years maybe 3 years at the most.
And half are just on contracted just well by well.
And the same on kind of our frac commitments.
We've got these dedicated pumping fleets and for our total frac requirements across the company about 50% of those requirements are covered by these kind of long-term agreements.
So in the scenario where you just had an utter collapse in both oil and gas prices and everybody had to pull in their horns and slow down activity.
In that frac theory we could reduce our activity by 50% without incurring any contracts that we really would have to negotiate around.
Okay and the completion contract terms are the same 1 to 3 years right? Yes.
Okay okay.
A quick follow-up on maybe a little bit on the geology on the Eagle Ford.
I don't -- joined late so I apologize if you've mentioned this already.
The Eagle Ford well performance holding better than modeled any kind of color around kind of why that could be happening? Well I'm not sure I'd say it's better than modeled.
It's the same kind of we would describe as similar reserves that we've been talking about for the last 6 months in the Eagle Ford which is nominally 430 to 460 Mboe net after royalty per well but the consistency just is what continues to amaze me.
The press release we quoted 16 wells.
That's -- we could've listed a whole lot more than 16 wells.
So I'm just amazed that we haven't frankly drilled any real stinkers.
We've got all these rigs around and drilling all these wells and a bad well is the one that starts out at 700 barrels of oil a day which is really a good well.
So the point to make is we haven't seen any inconsistency in the Eagle Ford and the downspacing is -- what we're really focusing on now is how densely can or should we drill these wells to maximize the NPV of this asset given that right now we're just slating 4% overall oil recovery.
What you're going to see in all these source and our oil plays whether it's the Bakken the Wolfcamp so on and so forth is Phase 2 of development of all of these plays is going to focus on improving the recovery factor.
And if you go back to the natural gas side a lot of you will remember that we quoted it initially in the Barnett Shale in Johnson County a recovery factor that was turned out to be much lower than what we're currently achieving.
We're right now we're achieving recovery factors in the Barnett Shale of roughly about 40% or so I think is our number.
Now we never get to 40% oil recovery factor in these plays but we really think what you people as analysts should be focusing on is who's the industry leader in improving recovery factors after these oil shales have been found and initial development has started? And just the EOG was the industry leader in finding most of these oil shale plays in North America.
We believe we'll be the industry leader in attacking the improved recovery portion of it.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Papa for any additional or closing remarks.
Yes thanks for listening.
I've just got 2 additional comments.
If you kind of listened to the drift of this call what you can take away from it is essentially every one of our horizontal oil plays we have upbeat news that we shared with you this quarter.
And that's pretty rare.
And then the second point I'll reiterate it again because I'm really just befuddled why anybody in the industry pays the slightest attention to natural gas growth in North America is beyond me.
And I continue to see particularly sell-side writeups that say "This company is growing at this rate." In my mind it doesn't matter if you're growing at that rate if your primary driver of your growth is natural gas which is barely profitable at best.
So I'd sure like people to focus more on the parameters we quoted which are the EPS EBITDA cash flow growth and rates of growth of those.
And I think you'll view EOG as the standout company in those parameters.
Thank you very much and that concludes my comments.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to EOG Resources Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Mark Papa.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing third quarter 2011 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast including those for the Eagle Ford may contain -- may include estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release in the Investor Relations page of our website.
With me this morning are Bill Thomas President; Gary Thomas Chief Operating Officer; Tim Driggers Vice President and CFO; and Maire Baldwin Vice President Investor Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website last night and we included fourth quarter and updated full year guidance in yesterday's press release.
I'll now review our third quarter net income and cash flow followed by operational highlights.
In addition to our typical play results I'll also address several hot button topics such as infrastructure-related downtime facts and logistics and crude oil marketing.
Tim Driggers will provide some financial details and then I'll provide macro and hedging comments a conceptual view of our 2012 business plan and concluding remarks.
As outlined in our press release for the third quarter EOG reported net income of $540.9 million or $2.01 per diluted share.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP net income to eliminate mark-to-market impacts and certain non-recurring items as outlined in the press release EOG's third quarter adjusted net income was $223.2 million or $0.83 per diluted share.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP discretionary cash flow EOG's DCF for the third quarter was $1.17 billion.
I'll now discuss our 2011 business plan and third quarter operational results.
Our business plan continues to be simple and consistent.
We've completed the organic conversion to a liquids-based  company by exploiting our world-class domestic onshore horizontal oil positions while preserving all of our core North American natural gas resource play assets and maintaining a low net debt-to-cap ratio.
This is manifested in very high year-over-year crude oil production growth rates the best in the industry for a company our size.
We continue to have 0 interest in growing North American natural gas volumes in a $4 environment.
We believe that debt adjusted production growth per share us a useless metric to evaluate E&amp;P performance considering the value discrepancy between crude oil and natural gas which is currently trading at 22:1.
What counts is profitable liquids growth particularly crude oil.
Our investments in high rate of return domestic oil plays will flow through the income statement and generate disproportionately high growth in EPS EBITDA per share and cash flow per share.
In the third quarter we hit both our volume and unit cost targets.
We exceed 54% year-over-year total company oil growth in the quarter and 51% year-over-year oil growth for the first 9 months.
Our total liquids growth was equally impressive: 49% year-over-year in the third quarter and 47% for the first 9 months.
You'll note that we haven't changed our full year liquids growth target of 47% year-over-year or 154 000 barrels per day.
Unlike many companies striving to achieve liquids growth a majority of our growth almost 80% is in higher value crude oil as opposed to NGLs.
Also there are no changes to our 2011 capital budget guidance.
I'll now discuss the major drivers of our oil growth starting with Eagle Ford.
This continues to be the hottest and highest rate of return play in the U.S.
and EOG has the largest and best situated net position in the oil window.
We continue to be the largest oil producer in the play with net after revenue -- net after royalty excuse me production of 53 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day at the end of the third quarter 78% of which is crude oil and 11% is NGLs.
All of our 561 000 net acres are productive and we expect to be the largest net Eagle Ford oil producer for at least the next decade.
Our press release contains multiple well results so rather than provide a well-by-well recitation I'll provide some context regarding the overall play.
There are 4 key points.
First our well quality continues to improve and to exhibit consistency across the trends.
Also we continue to have a 100% success rate.
Our press release highlighted 3 wells with IP rates of about 3 000 barrels of oil per day plus additional NGLs.
These are the best wells we've completed to date.
The Meyer Unit #6H IP-ed at 2 918 barrels of oil per day 500 barrels per NGL per day and 2 million cubic feet a day of residue gas.
The Mitchell Unit #1H and #2H wells IP-ed at 2 821 and 3 090 barrels of oil per day with 450 and 500 barrels of NGL per day each and 2 million cubic feet a day of residue gas respectively.
We have 100% working interest in these wells.
We've noticed improved rates across our acreage.
We are consistently completing wells with IP rates of 1 500 to 2 000 barrels of oil per day plus NGLs and residue gas.
This is attributable to improvements in the placement of the lateral in the optimum portion of the Eagle Ford play interval and also improvements in frac design.
This is not surprising because we continually work the science to enhance our understanding of every play.
Second we continue to be encouraged by our downspacing results.
As a reminder in the last quarter's call we stated that our 900 million barrel of oil equivalent net after royalty reserve estimate was predicated on a 130-acre well spacing and that we were pleased with initial results from our first downspacing pattern i.e.
closer than 130 acres on the King Fehner Unit lease.
We've now observed  production from this downspaced unit for 150 days and the results continue to be positive.
We are testing 6 additional multi-well pilots of varying increased densities and early results from all of these pilots look positive.
We're not yet ready to make a firm technical call regarding closer spacing but it's fair to say we're optimistic.
I'll also note that there's an interrelationship  between well spacing and per well reserves.
Third in addition to the good news regarding well performance and increased density we are beginning to see some consistent well cost reduction.
As you know the Eagle Ford is a high-activity area for the industry and this year there's been continued upward service cost pressure.
The third quarter is the first time we've noticed a consistent trend of lower total well costs due primarily to 3 internal factors.
First our drilling time for well is decreasing which we'd expect as we become more familiar with the play.
Our fastest well to date is the Cusack Ranch #5H which we drilled and cased to 15 467 feet in 13 days.
These cost efficiencies are an important factor in reducing well costs.
Second we've optimized our frac designs which has reduced costs.
And third we've implemented contract pumping services for our fracs cutting costs by $0.5 million per well.
The next game changer will be utilizing self-sourced frac sand from our new mine which will start up in December.
This should reduce per well cost by an additional $0.5 million per well.
Overall we expect our 2012 completed well cost to average about $5.5 million.
This will easily make us the lowest-cost Eagle Ford oil producer and will generate great economics.
Fourth the last overall point regarding the Eagle Ford relates to takeaway capacity.
We continue to dodge a lot of bullets here.
We had only a minor amount of downtime caused by facility limitations in the third quarter.
As I've said before we will be on the nice edge of oil takeaway and gas plant processing capacity until the Enterprise expansions are installed in mid-2012.
In the interim we're moving 15 000 barrels a day of crude-by-rail much of which is capturing a portion of LLS pricing.
The Eagle Ford oil pricing structure relative to the WTI has recently improved and we're now receiving a significant uplift over WTI for most of this production.
To summarize the quarter's Eagle Ford results it's good news good news and good news on the well performance spacing and well cost fronts.
I continue to believe EOG's Eagle Ford position is the highest rate of return large-scale hydrocarbon play in all of North America onshore or offshore.
I also continue to believe this is the largest oil company -- oil discovery net to any one company in the last 40 years in the U.S.
Speaking of good news I'll now discuss our 240 000 acres of Permian Basin Wolfcamp and Leonard assets which will be increasing growth contributors in 2012.
Other companies have reported mixed results to date in the horizontal Wolfcamp but EOG's results have been great.
I don't know whether that's due to better acreage or better technology but the results speak for themselves.
Our press release listed several recent completions and again I won't give well-by-well recitations.
So far our wells have IP-ed between 600 and 1 400 barrels of oil per day with 0.3 million to 1.3 million cubic feet a day of rich gas per well.
In terms of understanding the play and optimization maturity this play is about a year behind the Eagle Ford but we've come up the learning curve enough to identify this as a significant future growth driver for us.
We also feel good about our Leonard Shale play but we restricted 2011 capital allocation here because the acreage is already held by production.
In the Bakken we continue to be one of the largest oil producers in North Dakota and are achieving consistent results in the Bakken and Three Forks.
We'll drill 84 gross wells here next year and expect to have a steady consistent program for many more years.
Our production has recovered from the second quarter flooding and thanks to our crude-by-rail infrastructure we didn't incur any significant production downtime this past quarter.
In 2012 we'll be testing some Bakken downspacing ideas similar to the Eagle Ford.
Our well results in the Barnett Combo play were quite good in the third quarter with several typical wells noted in the press release.
Late in the third and early fourth quarters we did encounter some gas processing plant capacity issues that restricted production.
We expect these issues will be resolved soon and the downtime is integrated into our fourth quarter volume forecast.
In summary both the Bakken and Combo plays continue to deliver the expected results.
We previously mentioned contributory liquids plays such as the Marmaton Niobrara and Powder River Basin.
We continue to have a moderate degree of successful activity in all these areas but at this juncture we'd classify them as contributory and not game changers for EOG.
Before I close out the oil play discussion I'll mentioned timing regarding our Argentina Vaca Muerta shale play where we have approximately 100 000 net acres.
We'll start our first well in the first quarter 2012 though we should have some results by late 2012 In the East Irish Sea we're targeting startup in the fourth quarter 2012 for our Conwy oilfield which we expect to peak at 20 000 net barrels of oil per day in early 2013 giving us an early boost for 2013 liquids growth.
Also I'll mention we continue to maintain an active exploration program and continue to search for new horizontal liquids plays primarily in North America.
Turning to the dry gas side of the ledger.
We're continuing to focus our efforts only in areas where we must drill to hold acreage mainly the Marcellus and Haynesville.
In British Columbia we're still excited about the Kitimat LNG export project but it's not yet a done deal.
The project is contingent upon a construction cost estimate and the ability to lock in oil index sales contracts.
We recently had a lot of questions regarding EOG-owned sand mines and our crude-by-rail connection to St.
James Louisiana.
Because of the industrywide frac sand shortages and the resulting steep price increases we've attacked this cost side of the business by developing our own sand mines and processing plant to provide high-quality frac sand.
We'll commence the new sand plant startup next month.
The first area to receive sand will be the Eagle Ford followed later in 2012 by the Marcellus and Permian.
As I noted when discussing the Eagle Ford the dollar savings per well will be substantial.
And since the frac is roughly 50% of the total well cost this will position EOG as a low-cost producer in multiple resource plays.
Regarding our St.
James crude-by-rail terminal we still expect it to be operational by April 2012.
We'll have the capability to move either our Bakken or Eagle Ford oil to St.
James.
Total EOG capacity will be 100 000 barrels of oil per day.
We'll likely start with 50 000 barrels of oil per day of deliveries to St.
James in April and increase over the course of 2012.
We plan to increase the amount of deliveries to St.
James as our existing fleet of railcars increases between now and year end 2012.
Another portion of our 2011 business plan involve $1.6 billion of asset sales.
To date we've closed on $1.3 billion.
On the last call I mentioned that the timing of a small portion of these sales may carry over into the first quarter of 2012 and that still appears likely.
Between our 2010 and 2011 dispositions we will have sold about 6 600 net wells which leaves us with a more concentrated portfolio.
I'll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Good morning.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $13.9 million.
For the third quarter 2011 total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.59 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $162 million.
At third quarter end 2011 total debt outstanding was $5.2 billion and the debt-to-total capitalization ratio was 29%.
At September 30 we had $1.4 billion of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $3.8 billion or net debt-to-total cap ratio of 24%.
On a GAAP reporting basis the effective tax rate for the third quarter was 40% and the deferred tax ratio was 82%.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with the earnings press release for the fourth quarter and updated full year 2011.
For the fourth quarter the effective tax range is estimated to be between 40% and 50%.
For the full year 2011 the effective tax range is 40% to 45%.
We've also provided an estimated range of the dollar amount of current taxes that we expect to record during the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Now I'll turn it back to Mark.
Thanks Tim.
Now I'll discuss our views regarding macro-hedging in our conceptual 2012 and 2013 business plan.
Regarding oil we still think the global supply demand balances is tight even after this summer's release of oil from U.S.
and European strategic reserves.
Following a second global recession we're optimistic regarding 2012 WTI prices in the $90 range.
We're currently 23% hedged at a $97.02 price in the fourth quarter 2011.
And for 2012 we're approximately 7% hedged at a $106.37 price.
As mentioned beginning in April 2012 we have offloading capability at St.
James Louisiana giving us full LOS pricing for  up to 100 000 barrels of oil per day.
This represents a current uplift of $16 per barrel over WTI.
We also view this as a hedge.
We continue to have a cautious view regarding 2012 North American gas prices and are hedged accordingly.
For North American natural gas we're approximately 50% hedged for the fourth quarter at $4.90 price.
Additionally we've sold options at a $4.73 price that if exercised would mean we're 65% hedged through year end.
For 2012 we're approximately 40% hedged at a $5.44 price with options that if exercised will increase approximately 75% hedged at a $5.44 price.
As in past years we'll provide more detail regarding our 2012 business plan including CapEx plans and production growth targets on our February earnings call.
However at this time I can provide you some conceptual indicators regarding our 2012 plan.
As with this year the overwhelming majority of our 2012 CapEx will be devoted to high greater return oil and liquids projects with a minimum amount allocated to dry gas drilling primarily to hold acreage.
In 2011 the CapEx split was roughly 80% to liquids and 20% to dry gas.
Next year that split will likely be 90-10.
If 2012 WTI oil prices average $85 higher we'll likely have a CapEx budget at least at this year's level and grow liquids in the range of 27% year-over-year assuming no downstream facility curtailments.
To cover the spending gap we'll sell sufficient properties to maintain our 30% net debt-to-cap limit.
We don't plan to issue equity.
If oil prices average less than $85 next year we'll simply reduce CapEx and reduce the targeted 27% liquids growth target we won't issue equity and we'll sell whatever properties we need to conform to the 30% max debt-to-cap limit.
In either case we'll have 0 interest in growing gas volumes unless gas prices surprise to the upside.
If you look conceptually to 2013 and assume that decent oil price combined with a continued weak gas price our funding gap narrows  considerably or if we desire shrinks altogether if we elect to decelerate CapEx and achieve only robust instead of outstanding 2013 liquids growth.
The point is we have a plan to cover our 2012 funding gap and with our powerful liquids asset base we can conform our 2013 and later years CapEx budgets to generate whatever liquids growth rate is optimum.
Now let me summarize.
In my opinion there are 7 important points to take away from this call.
First the game plan we articulated several years ago is working.
We've captured world-class low-risk  oil positions that are driving the strongest organic liquid growth primarily oil of any large-cap independent.
In parallel our EPS EBITDA and cash flow per share are growing at disproportionately high rates.
This will likely continue for many more years.
Second we're accomplishing this game plan with relatively low debt.
Third our Eagle Ford position is turning out to be even better than when we initially unveiled it in early 2010.
We have not only the largest but the best quality net acreage position in the play.
Fourth in the Bakken and Eagle Ford our 2 biggest oil plays our well results are essentially the best in the industry based on sell-side research shown in our website IR slides.
Anyone who wishes to check state data can reach the same objective conclusion.
The same holds true for our Barnett Combo wells.
Although still early in development we also believe our Wolfcamp well results are the best in the industry.
Fifth essentially all of our oil assets are located in E&amp;P friendly states in the onshore U.S.
Sixth we have a business plan to deal with our 2012 funding gap.
And finally we continue to look for new liquids plays and ways to improve low recovery factors in our existing plays.
In 2012 we intend to focus on recovery factor improvements in our large captured oil positions.
Thanks for listening and now we'll go to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Obviously it looks like your results in both the Eagle Ford play and Wolfcamp play showed kind of materially higher IPs here in the third quarter versus 2Q in terms of the ones you highlighted.
Can you comment as to whether or not you think that there are some potential EUR changes coming to the upside here in these plays? Yes Leo.
The situation relating to the EURs particularly in the Eagle Ford are -- if we were to keep the same 130-acre spacing we might have some positive upward trends there.
There is an interrelationship however between spacing and EURs.
And so what might come out of it ultimately here is if we end up drilling on tighter spacing that may offset the tendency toward higher EURs.
So it will probably be some time in the first half of 2012 when we're able to give an assessment of the more dense spacing and at that same time we'll give an assessment of the reserves per well.
But clearly the directions are positive here on both spacing and well results.
In the Wolfcamp it's just -- it's too soon to know -- I mean we are doing some similar spacing test there and we're still assessing the reserves.
But that one  will be a little bit slower to come to a technical conclusion on that one.
Yes I would say clearly the results in the Eagle Ford particularly are better than I would have ever expected.
Going back to when we first rolled this out in early 2010 I'm I guess ecstatic would be a good way to describe the results that I believe we're seeing in the Eagle Ford.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just sticking with the Wolfcamp.
Can you guys comment on kind of the where the well costs are now and where you think those might go into 2012? Yes our well costs are down about 40% from when we started.
And like Mark was saying yes the first wells were taking about 20 days and they're taking about 12 days now.
And also yes we'll be able to drive those down with additional efficiencies and most especially with having EOG store sands for our frac jobs.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess can you maybe just comment on the actual numbers for the current well costs then? Our current well costs then are in the $5.5 million to $6 million range.
And then that's why we're thinking yes we'll get them down there in the $5.5 million or less with us having our own sand.
I'll just go and say yes we'll just continue to work the science as Mark was saying and further reduce our cost and improve the efficiencies of our completions in both of the cost discourse and the completions.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess Mark any sort of differences in the assets sale program in 2012 versus 2011? Are you going to kind of take a similar approach with kind of a mix of acreage infrastructure and producing assets? And maybe could you identify anything at this point? Yes I mean at least it's the first pass we probably don't have a lot of further infrastructure items that we're talking about selling in 2012.
So it's going to be primarily gas-related assets or acreage that we're looking at disposing.
And that's why we want to wait until our February call.
Then we'll -- the way to view the asset sales for 2012 is the plug number.
You can kind of work backwards and say okay what's our cash flow going to be for 2012 based on whatever we see the price looking like in February assuming a 38% max debt cap and then the plug number that you fill in is what we need to sell in the way of assets.
We'll go next to Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about the Eagle Ford and the consistency that you guys have shown there.
Could you maybe put in -- could you compare the Wolfcamp the Permian development to the Eagle Ford in terms of expectations how long what type of well control you need for that to be the real big next growth story for the company? Yes what -- the way I'd characterize the Permian both the Wolfcamp and the Leonard is number one we don't have the overwhelming acreage position.
We've only got roughly half the acreage net acreage in the Permian as we do in the Eagle Ford so it's not going to be as big an impact on the company.
In terms of the individual well results I'd say that the well results on an individual basis are not going to be quite as strong in the Wolfcamp as they are in the Eagle Ford.
We're not expecting we can get wells in the Wolfcamp approaching 3 000 barrels of oil a day plus NGLs.
That's probably too optimistic.
So I would say the Eagle Ford continues to be grossly underestimated in valuations in our stock and the Wolfcamp/Leonard will have an impact maybe kind of like of half an Eagle Ford just in qualitative terms.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well half an Eagle Ford is still pretty good.
My other question  was in the midstream side.
To what extent does time in the midstream impact the liquids targets for 2012? And I'm not now looking for exact just as that plus or minus 5% 2% kind of ballpark it? Yes.
Well I'd say either that 27% growth rate if we really had some nasty stuff happen in the midstream it might affect it 5%.
It might knock it down to 22%.
But at this stage I'd say I'm a lot more comfortable about the midstream than I was at the beginning of the year for both 2011 and 2012.
Short of the -- if we exclude the flooding we had up in Manitoba and North Dakota we really haven't had any massive midstream bottlenecks this year.
And we're far enough out in front in terms of our midstream planning that short of a gas processing plant having -- just going down because of an explosion or something and being down for a couple of months or some oil pipeline having some massive leak that caused it to be shut down for months.
I'm fairly comfortable for the 2012 logistics.
And it's really only the first half of 2012 for the Eagle Ford.
Then we've got the relief in the system with the startups of the Enterprise plants and pipelines.
We'll go next to Scott Wilmoth with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> If we are in the $85-plus  scenario for next year what's the kind of the implied Eagle Ford drilling ramp or needs to meet the pipeline and your HBP activity? Yes.
This year it looks like we'll be drilling about 270 wells in the Eagle Ford and we would have some increase next year in terms of Eagle Ford drilling.
And we'll give you some details on that.
I mean we're still thinking through that but we'll give you some details on that in the February call.
But in conceptual terms the Eagle Ford will go up a bit on the number of wells.
The Bakken will go down in  number of wells or rigs.
And the Permian will go up relative to this year.
And the Niobrara will go down 2012 versus 2011 in rigs-directed activity if you will.
And the Combo will stay roughly the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on your HBP needs in the Eagle Ford over the next couple of years could you just quantify that? Yes we're in decent shape on that.
At this stage we -- if oil went to $50 a barrel or so then we'd be stressed.
But if oil pays $80 $85 or so and we keep on the drilling program we're planning then we should be in good shape to retain the entire acreage position.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when I think about the Bakken rig count decrease next year is that largely just a function of where that asset is in it's life cycle more of a development mode or is it a statement on economics relative to the Eagle Ford? Yes it's more a statement of where our leases are.
We've been drilling in the Bakken for quite a few years as you know and we're in darn good shape on  just holding the lease position together.
So we have the flexibility in 2012 to not be forced to drill in the Bakken because we have leasehold issues.
And so what we're doing is we're basically saying okay we'll slowdown in the Bakken a bit and we're going to accelerate in the Permian particularly in the Wolfcamp.
So the economics are not necessarily driving it as much as the leasehold situation is.
I had noted that on a few other competitors' earnings calls they were talking about well costs in the Bakken for long laterals that I believe the numbers that were quoted are somewhere between $10 million and $12 million a well.
Our well costs up there for a long lateral 10 000 foot lateral are more like $8.2 million to $8.3 million.
So I can see where some people might have some pretty skinny economics if you're spending $10 million plus on these kind of wells.
We'll go next to Ray Deacon with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give a little bit more -- few more thoughts on the Vaca Muerta and beyond this first well? What type of commitment do you have for drilling next year? Yes Let me have Bill Thomas address the thoughts on the Vaca Muerta.
Yes Ray we've got a well planned in the first part of next year.
And the section we're targeting there we've got data that shows that it's relatively thick about 900 feet thick and it's got about 150 million barrels per section of oil in place.
So it's certainly a world-class potential rock.
And we're planning a horizontal well and we will be conducting microseismic on it to monitor the frac and do all the science work to fully evaluate how the well fracs.
And certainly we'll follow up that and see how the well produces.
So our expectations are really high for it but we'll just have to see how it goes when we get the well completed.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe one follow-up.
In terms of the Permian I think last quarter you talked about bottlenecks emerging there similar to what you've seen in the Eagle Ford.
I guess based on your comment that your activities  going to ramp up it sounds like you can maybe resolve some of those issues.
Is that fair? Yes our feeling is as the Permian is going to continue to heat up that the Wolfcamp success we have I mean other companies are likely to have similar success subsequently.
And so what always happens it happened in the Bakken it happened in the Eagle Ford is you have a lot of success by the industry and the next thing that inevitably happens is bottlenecks.
And we would expect that a year or 2 from now you'll see a bunch of bottlenecks out there in the Permian and we're already working trying to -- as we were ahead in the game in both the Eagle Ford and the Bakken to be ahead of the game to ameliorate those potential bottlenecks.
But as far as 2012 at this stage we don't anticipate any really ugly bottlenecks at least on the stuff that we're going to develop.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next of Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm intrigued by some of those well results at Meyer and Mitchell.
You said it was the placement of lateral.
Can you talk about whether that's as a mute [ph]  fall? Or is that where in the Eagle Ford? And also the frac design.
What are you doing differently? On the frac design Bob we are doing something different but we're sure not going to tell anybody about it just for competitive reasons.
As far as locating the lateral in this section I mean typically the Eagle Ford thickness is 150 maybe 200 feet at the thickest.
And we've done a lot of experimenting as to where in that interval should you lay the lateral.
And we think we've got -- there are better spots than others there.
And we think we've now consistently put that lateral in the proper spot there.
So it's probably been the case of the -- I'd say the frac enhancement the frac design maybe 50% of the credit and the lateral location the other 50% of the credit.
But it just shows that the Eagle Ford is because the rock wall is a bit better you get outside responses disproportionately large responses to just some small tweaks.
And that's what we've seen particularly in the Eagle Ford there.
That asset is just going to get better and better and better.
I know I sound like a broken record on that but it's truly a sense of wonderment to me how impressive that is.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Well I'll try again on the placement.
Does that imply that you're getting contributions from either a shallower or a deeper zone or not? No.
No Bob.
No we don't -- this is -- we believe it's all 100% contribution from the Eagle Ford only.
We'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Following up on the last question there.
With the strong quarter-on-quarter increase we've seen in the Eagle Ford IPs not just in Gonzales County but even in Karnes and LaSalle.
Assuming that these better IPs translate to better EURs do you feel like you're increasing recovery rates or just that you'll end up needing fewer wells to recover what you always thought was recoverable? Yes again I'll put off a specific answer on that till early next year.
But the chances of needing fewer wells is pretty low.
All this downspacing data tells us directionally that if we go any direction from where we are today we'll end up drilling more wells in the Eagle Ford.
And that the combination of the downspacing plus these improvements in the frac and everything that those 2 factors could drive a boost in the recovery factor which is currently 4%.
But we don't want you to go off and say based on these wells that you can say well we may have downspacing potential plus higher reserves per well.
It's probably not going to work that way.
It may be downspacing plus equal reserve per well or something along those lines when you put the 2 together.
Research Division</strong> I guess though that even before one considers downspacing the conclusion is that there's upside to the 900 million barrels just for the well results alone.
Well we're directionally feeling pretty good That's all I'm going to commit to at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then secondly you remarked in your release that the transition to EOG being a liquids focus company is complete and you're now into harvest mode in terms of developing some of what you found.
Should we expect either less focus or more flexibility and exploration capital spending for new liquids plays going forward? The answer to that is no.
We continue to be working to turf up new liquids plays.
And I mean if you're driving toward any energy catalysts I think the catalysts are twofold.
One is can we turf up brand-new liquids plays? The second catalyst is on the existing ones that are already identified can we increase recovery factors on those? And so -- but we're placing a large degree of emphasis on both those.
But I'd say looking for new plays is clearly on our short list of things that we're doing.
Research Division</strong> Are you as optimistic on the potential for finding meaningful new plays as maybe you were before yourselves and others have unlocked the number of new liquids plays that have been unlocked here in the last couple of years? I'd answer that by saying they haven't all been found yet that's for sure and our job is to be the finder.
We'll go next to David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Mark did you mention the recovery factors or do you only think you're recovering 4% right now in the Eagle Ford is that correct? Yes generally 4%.
There's about 21 billion 22 billion barrels of oil in place in the Eagle Ford and recovering 0.9  billion I think that comes out closer to 4% than 5%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what do you think that number should based on whatever you look at or your I mean geologists looking at? What number you think that should realistically get to? Let's say the next 3 to 4 years? Not going to answer that.
Good try though David.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Let me go to a different route.
Just looking at your gas production obviously backed off midland [ph] capital.
What's your -- what do you think your decline rate's at now? It seems like it has started to slow in the last couple of quarters.
It came off kind of hard and then slowed down.
How should we think about 10% CapEx for natural gas next year? I know it's dependent on the gas price.
But what's the best way to think what your underlying decline rate is right now? Yes it's fair to say our North American gas volumes this year have held up better than I expected relative to our expectations at the beginning of the year which means the decline's a little less steep than we thought.
But I'll also say that we really don't care for 2012 where our gas volumes go because we think it's just at best case you're just cycling money.
So our interest in having gas volume growth next year or not is very very low unlike pretty much the whole rest of the industry.
I can't quote you a specific decline rate but in terms of management focus on North American gas volumes at a $4 price range we're just indifferent as to the volumes I guess the best way to put it.
We'll go next to Irene Haas with Wunderlich.
Research Division</strong> And I have one question but it has multiple parts.
So starting with the most recent dozens of wells that you've drilled are you targeting the same horizontal interval within the 1 000 foot Wolfcamp? And essentially how many zones within the Wolfcamp does work? What I'm after is are you going for a double-decker or triple-decker play? And if yes how big is this play? Does it extend half to 2 counties we know of? And then also well costs how much is it costing? And then finally you said that this play is one year behind the Eagle Ford about half the size so we imply that you have scored about $0.5 billion barrel discovery already in the Wolfcamp.
And with that I will stop there.
Oh that's about a 5-part question.
I'll let Bill Thomas answer that Irene.
Yes Irene on the targeting the shale is really thick.
It's about 900 feet thick.
And so we're focusing on 2 targets right now one mainly in the middle target.
And that's where we drilled pretty much all the wells that you've seen that we've release in the press releases.
And the far right those have all been in the middle zone We have recently drilled several wells in the upper target and we are in the completion process on those and we don't have the results on those yet.
So we at least have 2 targets there and if they're both successful you're correct we will develop that play like we've done other plays we will alternate targets.
And we're currently working on the spacing.
We've got multiple spacing tests going on.
And so it's going to take us some time to be able to give you any kind of numbers on the full reserve potential of the play because again we're just in the early stages of testing the upper target.
And we're still in the early stages of figuring out what's the correct downspacing.
So both of those will have a tremendous effect on the number of wells.
As for the cost I think we talked about that before.
I think our target cost is about $5.4 million per well.
Yes our costs are about the same as right now as what the Eagle Ford is.
But the thing that's encouraging there it's about 1 000 feet less TVD Irene.
And we're just thrilled with the drilling results.
As a matter of fact we just recently drilled one well and it was drilled in just around 7 days at 14 500 feet.
So it's an excellent area to be drilling in and very few problems associated with that part of the operations.
And we are drilling slightly longer laterals there.
As far as the total size of the play it's certainly a regional shale deposit over the Midland Basin and so it has a large extent to it and it's fairly consistent.
And so both of those things are really positive for EOG.
And like Gary said it's a play that we can consistently get good results and we can consistently drive down our costs and increase the recovery factor of the play.
So this is really a strong play for us and it's got a lot of upside.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I may have one follow-up question.
The more recent wells the blockbuster that you've just have announced can you tell us how many stages of fracs there are? Are they ultra-long laterals? The Wolfcamp wells or the Eagle Ford? Research Division</strong> The recent the 3 Wolfcamp wells that you just have announced as really huge.
Are they the longer laterals say 9 000-foot well? I don't think you disclosed.
No these are they are longer Irene between in the 7 000 to 7 500 foot length as far as total treatable lateral.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so the frac stages? On the stages they're in the 30 range 30 to 34.
Research Division</strong> So they're pretty closely spaced? They are as far as the stage lengths.
We'll go next the Rehan Rashid with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> The Eagle Ford side that are getting premium to WTI even now maybe a little bit thoughts there and then kind of what logistically is happening to get you there? And then second past maybe some divestitures  still left to do in '12 is there a sustainable growth rate of the Enterprise that you would be comfortable talking about of course assuming appropriate margins? Yes Rehan on the Eagle Ford oil pricing kind of logistics our view is is what changed the kind of the calculus there in the Eagle Ford oil pricing is when we started up our crude-by-rail and started moving about 15 000 barrels a day to St.
James then we saw a change by the oil purchasers pretty much throughout the Eagle Ford.
And prior to that we were typically getting WTI minus some increment for our crude.
And now we're consistently getting WTI plus an increment for the crude.
So I think it's just a case of proving that we have alternates [ph] EOG has alternates [ph]  other than just selling the crude in the local Eagle Ford market is what changed the dynamics.
So our guess would be that we're probably in a situation where we have a decent chance to get WTI plus increments prospectively for the Eagle Ford crude that it'll probably a long-term thing.
In terms of long term you kind of said on what kind of grows long term for the company would we be happy with in terms of production growth rate.
We'd really -- you kind of hit my hot button on that because I think that because the value of oil growth or NGL growth is so disparate from gas growth the best way to say it is as a management team we view kind of total company production growth as a useless metric.
And we're a lot more focused on EPS growth EBITDA growth per share cash flow growth per share.
So in other words we're at 110% focused on our liquids growth and we don't have a great interest in the gas growth side.
So it's hard for me to quote an aggregate number for you other than we feel pretty strongly though on the liquid size as long as we have supportive WTI and LLS prices that we're going to have long term a disproportionately  high liquids growth rate relative to the large-cap independent peer group.
And that's what we're really focusing on.
And we'll take our final question from Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm asking what are the physical terms in Argentina? Is that a concession or is that a PSA? They're basically farm-ins from people who hold it ahead that acreage.
And generally those are not PSAs.
They're under the kind of the regime that the previous entities owners of that acreage had.
It's a pretty convoluted as you know kind of tax and fiscal regime down there.
But our research of it says that under the terms we've assumed under the  farm-in if we can make good wells we can make a decent rate of return there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And does the farm-in that you have I guess takeaway options or are working those as you get closer to the well results? Yes there are plenty of takeaway options there because essentially what we're doing is we're drilling in the middle of an old existing gas and oilfield.
So there's plenty of takeaway options.
The issue is really -- what it's really going to boil down to I believe with that shale play is what is going to be the average well cost on a program basis.
That's the risk you run on these international shale gas or shale oil projects are can you drive the well costs down to make sure you have good economics.
And so that's the thing that we're looking at.
I mean our growing in very very rough estimate is we think that the first well or 2 may cost us $15 million a well and then we completed the well cost and then ultimately we can drive that down to maybe $10 million a well.
But that's very very rough.
And we'll just have to see as we go forward.
The reason I said we'll probably won't be able to report any results until late 2012 is whatever result we get on the first well we're going to want to test another well or 2 before we go spouting off that this is a big success or a big non-success.
It's probably going to take us till late next year before we really can opine pro or con on  Argentina stuff.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And there is enough access to services down there so you wouldn't have to bring any of your own I guess technical guys down there I guess have North American kind of a frac guys go down there to help you get the well completed? Yes we're pretty comfortable with the level of services.
The 2 biggest issues there were directional drilling services and the frac services.
And there appears to be enough in  country at least for us to get a couple of wells done.
There's probably not enough in the whole country if the whole play takes off and turns into a monster play.
But right now for testing purposes yes there's enough in  country.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Then the last question I had is just more on I guess the strategic side of things.
Given the ambivalence toward gas I mean would you guys think about I guess larger more holistic changes to the portfolio vis-a-vis maybe an MLP of some of those assets or a larger asset sale of some of the more gassy piece of the portfolio? Yes as far as an MLP or a VPP very very unlikely.
We just like to keep our whole accounting and the company very simple.
So pretty much 0 chance of that happening.
Bigger  gas asset sale yes it's possible.
We just have to see as we go through but we're so long on gas assets in the company that it wouldn't break our heart if we parted with some significant gas assets.
Okay.
I appreciate everybody staying with us here through the hour.
And we'll talk to you again in 3 months.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We'd like to thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to EOG Resources Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Mark Papa.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast including those for the Eagle Ford may contain potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release in the Investor Relations page of our website.
With me this morning are Bill Thomas President; Gary Thomas COO; Tim Driggers Vice President and CFO; Maire Baldwin Vice President Investor Relations; and Jill Miller Manager of Engineering and Acquisitions.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website last night and we included first quarter and full year 2012 guidance in yesterday's press release.
This is our 50th quarterly earnings call since we became a fully public company and fittingly we have a lot of positives to discuss this morning including exciting news from several Texas-based liquids resource plays.
I'll discuss topics in the following order: I'll first review our 2011 fourth quarter and full year net income and discretionary cash flow.
Then I'll provide operational results followed by reserve replacement and our 2012 business plan.
Tim Driggers will then discuss financials and capital structure and I'll follow with our macro hedge position and finish with concluding remarks.
As outlined in our press release for the fourth quarter EOG reported net income of $120.7 million or $0.45 per diluted share and $1.091 billion or $4.10 per diluted share for the full year 2011.
For investors who focus on non-GAAP net income to eliminate mark-to-market impacts in certain nonrecurring items as outlined in our press release EOG's fourth quarter adjusted net income was $309 million or $1.15 per diluted share and $1.0 billion or $3.79 per diluted share for the full year.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP discretionary cash flow EOG's DCF for the fourth quarter was $1.3 billion and $4.57 billion for the full year.
I'll now address our 2011 operational results and key plays.
For both the fourth quarter and full year our liquids and total company production exceeded the midpoint of our guidance.
For the full year 2011 we achieved 52% total company crude oil growth with a 61% increase in U.S.
crude oil production.
Total company liquids increased 48% all organic.
This is clearly best in class for a company our size and is right on top of the 49% total liquids growth projection we provided you exactly a year ago on this same earnings call.
Since 2007 EOG's crude and condensate growth and total liquids growth have each increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 38%.
Our 2011 North American gas production declined 7% versus 2010 from a combination of asset sales and lack of drilling.
Total company overall production growth was 9.4% again very close to the 9.5% estimate we provided last February.
Also for the full year our aggregate unit lease and well transportation and DD&amp;A costs were lower than the aggregate midpoint guidance.
As I've said on multiple earnings calls EOG's focus is on year-to-year year-over-year increases in EPS EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow and our path to achieve this goal is strong liquids growth.
For 2011 compared to 2010 our GAAP EPS growth was 551%.
Non-GAAP EPS growth was 227% adjusted EBITDAX growth was 55% and discretionary cash flow growth was 52%.
And based on current NYMEX prices we expect continued growth in these metrics in 2012.
In 2011 67% of our total company wellhead revenues came from liquids.
In North America 72% of wellhead revenues came from liquids.
This strong liquids growth is generated by the first move of positions we captured in horizontal domestic oil plays.
We presently have 4 of these each of which we believe is world-class.
I'll now discuss each of these 4 plays starting with the Eagle Ford.
The Eagle Ford was our biggest oil growth engine in 2011 and will again be the biggest component of our 2012 growth.
A long time oil field axiom is that big fields tend to get bigger over time and that's certainly the case here.
This continues to be the hottest and highest reinvestment rate of return play in North America and EOG has the largest and best situated acreage position in the crude oil window.
We continue to be the largest crude oil producer in the Eagle Ford with net after royalty production of 66 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day at year end 88% of which was liquids.
Our press release contains multiple well results including the 6 outstanding wells on the Henkhaus lease which IP-ed at an average of approximately 3 100 barrels of oil per day with 560 barrels per day in NGLs and 2.8 million cubic feet a day of natural gas per well.
This is the best package of wells we've drilled to date.
Rather than provide you a well-by-well recitation I'll provide some content regarding the overall play.
There are 4 key points.
First we now have up to 200 days of well performance from multiple down spacing tests and we've concluded that our original 130-acre spacing was too wide to maximize NPV and recovery factors.
Based on reservoir modeling and pilot results we now calculate that spacing of 65 to 90 acres is more appropriate and will vary across the field depending on a number of factors including lease configuration geology and reservoir conditions.
Using this new spacing we have a total of 3 200 additional wells yet to drill plus the 375 we've already drilled for a total potential recoverable reserve estimate of 1.6 billion barrels of oil equivalent net after royalty.
This is a 700 million barrel oil equivalent net after royalty or 78% increase from our previous estimate.
Just this net increase of 700 million barrels of oil equivalent is larger we believe than any net domestic discovery by any company in recent history.
And the total size of 1.6 billion recoverable barrels is the biggest U.S.
discovery net to any one company since Prudhoe Bay in the late 1960s in our opinion including the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
We tend to kind of rollover some of these numbers and sometimes one gets lost in numbers but this is an extremely significant number and I want to quote it you again the total size of 1.6 billion barrels of oil equivalent net after royalty that we've captured in Eagle Ford we believe is the biggest U.S.
discovery including the entire deepwater Gulf of Mexico net to any one company since Prudhoe Bay in the late 1960s.
This is not a pie-in-the-sky number.
Our 61% 2011 domestic oil growth was driven by this asset and proves this is the real deal.
The number is substantiated by results from the 375 EOG horizontal oil wells drilled in the Eagle Ford plus hundreds of horizontal wells drilled by offset operators.
The 3 200 additional wells were determined using our 572 000 net acres and de-rating that number to allow for subsurface faults or other drilling limitations related to varying lease ownerships.
Now I know there are a lot of analytical people listening on this call and your tendency will be to take our 572 000 net acres divide by a mix of 65 to 90 acre spacing and you'll come up with a much higher well count and an even larger reserve number.
We'd ask that you refrain from this calculation because as with any play a portion of our acreage is eliminated either because of subsurface faults or drilling limitations related to differing lease ownerships.
In addition we slightly raised our net after royalty per well reserve estimate to 450 Mboe based on recent well improvements that we highlighted in the last several earnings releases.
The outcome of our down spacing test is that we've taken the original 4% recovery factor and are now using 6%.
Based on geologic analysis logs and studies we now estimate the net after royalty oil in place under our acreage to be 27.9 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
The second point relating to the Eagle Ford is that our Wisconsin sand mine is now up and running and we currently expect our average 2012 Eagle Ford well cost will be $5.5 million generating an 80% direct after-tax reinvestment rate of return.
We believe these are the best economics in the entire industry for a large-scale hydrocarbon play.
Our well costs are consistently $1 million to $2 million less than other operators drilling similar wells.
Third we currently have 572 000 net acres in the Eagle Ford oil window.
Now that we drilled 375 net wells we anticipate we'll be able to readily hold all this acreage.
For example for lease retention we only need to drill 40 wells this year.
Last year we drilled and completed 244 net wells and this year we expect to drill approximately 280 net wells to optimize development.
And fourth during 2011 we encountered no major liquids or gas takeaway issues relating to the Eagle Ford.
We still are on the bubble regarding take away capacity for the next 5 months until midyear when the new Enterprise gas plant and crude oil pipeline are in service.
This will improve both our logistics and net backs.
To simply summarize the Eagle Ford I can't think of a more substantial profitable oil discovery in the entire industry in recent times.
It's huge located in Texas has excellent economics and it's not speculative.
I'll now shift to the Barnett Combo play where our consistently good results have probably been overshadowed by the higher profile Eagle Ford and Bakken.
EOG is the largest crude oil producer in the Barnett.
The bottom line for the Barnett Combo is that we grew our liquids volumes by 107% in 2011 from 13.2000 barrels a day to 27.3000 barrels a day and we expect this to be our second largest liquids growth contributor in 2012 also.
This play has become a consistent and profitable workhorse for us.
Roughly 85% of the revenue stream from these wells emanates from liquids; 41% of which is crude oil and typical direct after-tax reinvestment rates of return even with current low gas prices are approximately 40%.
We have a cost advantage in the combo because we use sand from one of our own sand mines.
Last year we drilled 249 net combo wells and we expect to complete an additional 200 net wells in 2012.
We added 25 000 core area acres during 2011 and now have a total of 200 000 net acres.
Now I'll discuss results from our 240 000 net acres of Permian Basin Wolfcamp and Leonard assets which we expect will be our third largest liquids contributor in 2012.
We drilled 47 net wells in these plays last year and plan to drill 112 net wells this year.
Our overall results continue to be some of the best in the industry as noted in our press release with several wells with IP rates over 1 000 barrels of oil per day plus NGLs and gas.
We made good progress last quarter in reducing our well cost.
And after we begin using our self-sourced sand this year we expect our typical Wolfcamp well will be about 280 Mboe net after royalty for a $5.5 million completed well cost.
A typical Leonard well will be 300 Mboe net after royalty for a $6 million well cost.
Both of these plays have a combo product mix roughly 40% oil 30% NGLs and 30% dry gas.
Direct after-tax reinvestment rates of return are 55% for the Wolfcamp and 45% for the Leonard.
Until recently all our well results have been for the middle Wolfcamp interval.
However we just achieved our first success in the upper Wolfcamp.
The University 9 #2803H tested at 883 barrels of oil per day with 68 barrels per day of NGLs and 400 Mcf a day of natural gas.
We're currently evaluating whether this upper zone is a viable target across our acreage.
In the North Dakota Bakken we continue to achieve consistent results and the play contributed to the 13% total liquids growth realized in our overall Rocky Mountain operating area in 2011 over 2010.
We're reducing our Bakken rig count in 2012 because a majority of our acreage is now vested and we therefore expect 2012 volumes to decline a bit.
Some analysts have recently noted that Bakken economics may be less than stellar for many companies.
Fortunately for EOG we have the crude-by-rail system that gives us a net back advantage and we also started to self source some of our sand needs giving us a cost advantage.
In EOG's case I'll also point you to a Bakken reserve chart in our presentation posted on our website.
An independent analyst -- excuse me an independent analysis of all 2 428 Bakken laterals completed in the basin by the industry to date shows that EOG has the highest per well reserves of any company.
During 2012 we'll be attempting to improve our Bakken recovery factor by testing down spacing in our core area similar to what we've done in the Eagle Ford.
You may recall that we drilled our core area with 640-acre spacing which is the widest spacing used in the Bakken by any operator.
We have drilled multiple down space wells recently.
In a recent well the Fertile 48-0905H confirms our optimism with an IP rate of 1 324 barrels of oil a day.
We believe that down spacing to 320 acres may increase reserves but the magnitude of the potential reserve increase is much less than the Eagle Ford.
It's about 50 million barrels net.
We're also going to commence a Bakken waterflood pilot this year to see if we can further improve the oil recovery in the field.
We drilled 69 net Bakken and 10 net Three Forks wells in 2011 and plan to drill 60 total net wells in 2012.
Regarding other North American oil plays in the Niobrara we'll be completing a number of well that we drilled last year.
We'll continue to evaluate and optimize completion techniques.
Our mid-continent Marmaton and Wyoming Powder River basin plays exhibited good recent results.
In Ellis County Oklahoma the Opal 31 #2H was drilled as a horizontal oil producer in the Marmaton and turned to sales at 870 barrels of oil per day with 1.3 million cubic feet a day of rich natural gas.
The Guinan 25 #2H was competed at 502 barrels of oil per day with 1.2 million cubic feet a day of rich natural gas.
EOG has 90% and 42% working interest respectively in these wells.
In the Wyoming Powder River basin we have 2 rigs drilling in the Turner formation.
The Arbalest 9-23H well was completed to sales at 390 barrels of oil per day with 2.8 million cubic feet a day of rich gas.
We have 52% working interest in this well.
The Arbalest 42-14H was completed to sales at 391 barrels of oil per day with 2.8 million cubic feet a day of rich gas and we have 83% working interest in this well.
The Crossbow 20-06H and 52-18H wells were completed at 270 and 411 barrels of oil per day respectively both with 300 -- 3.5 million cubic feet a day of rich natural gas and we have 69% and 100% working interest in these wells.
The Niobrara Maramaton and Powder River Basin will continue to be contributory but not game breaking liquids plays for EOG.
In Canada we'll continue developing our Waskada area and will drill 126 net wells in 2012 compared to 94 wells last year.
We don't expect large growth in this area in 2012 due to a slow ramp up in operations and minor dispositions.
Two recent wells had production rates of 418 and 480 barrels of oil per day and are among the best wells in the play to date.
In the British Columbia Horn River Basin we committed the minimum drilling capital required to hold leases in 2011 and we'll do so again in 2012.
After our 2012 drilling program all of our 160 000 acres will be converted to 10-year leases.
The Kitimat LNG project continues to progress.
Key items we need to establish before making a final investment decision are a detailed project cost estimate and obtaining an oil index offtake contract.
We expect final investment decision will be a second half 2012 event.
Outside North America we have 2 areas of oil activity.
In the East Irish Sea we expect to commission our Conwy field and production facilities in early 2013.
Production will likely peak at 20 000 barrels of oil a day net sometime this year.
In Argentina we're currently drilling our first horizontal Vaca Muerta oil shale well and we expect results in the third quarter.
Additionally we expect our 2012 Trinidad natural gas production to be essentially flat with 2011 levels.
We are devoting 10% of our 2012 capital to dry gas activities to perpetuate our acreage.
The good news is that by year end our go-forward drilling requirements to hold acreage in the Haynesville Marcellus and Horn River will be quite small.
We'll expand the use of our self-sourced frac sand to our Marcellus activities during 2012.
I'll now address our 2011 reserve replacement and finding cost.
For the total company we replaced 167% of our production at a $19.68 per BOE all-in cost including reserve revisions.
Total company proved reserves increased 5.3% to 2.054 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
Excluding the impact of producing asset sales total company net proved developed reserves increased 9% overall and 8% in North America.
In the U.S.
we replaced 216% of our production.
From drilling alone in the U.S.
our finding cost was $15.97.
And in both North America and the U.S.
72% of our reserve adds were liquids.
Our overall reserves went from 28% liquids in 2010 to 36% in 2011 reflecting our liquids focus.
Our total liquids replacement was 465% and our total liquids reserve increased 39% year-over-year.
Overall natural gas reserves decreased due to reduced drilling for dry gas producing property sales and adjustments due to both low gas prices and well performance.
These are strong overall numbers and with our low finding costs are supportive of the high liquids margins we're currently generating.
For the 24th consecutive year DeGolyer and MacNaughton has done an engineering analysis of our reserves and our overall number was within 5% of our internal estimate.
Their analysis covered 85% of our proved reserves this year.
Please see the schedules accompanying the earnings release for the calculation of reserve replacement and finding costs.
Now I'll address our 2012 business plan.
We expect our 2012 total CapEx to be in the range of $7.4 billion to $7.6 billion of which approximately $1.2 billion will be devoted to facilities midstream and other infrastructure.
We expect 90% of our CapEx will be focused on liquids-rich plays.
We're increasing our previous 27% total company 2012 liquids growth target to 30%.
We are now targeting 30% total liquids growth consisting of 30% oil and 30% NGL growth year-over-year.
I'll mention that this growth is back-end loaded with the real liquids growth showing up in the third and fourth quarters.
During the first quarter we are adding frac spreads in a number of plays and we'll have pattern wells off-line due to offset fracs.
We'll also have some gas processing capacity downtime in some of our Texas liquids rich plays.
And in addition we expect some liquids dispositions in the first quarter and we've taken all this into account in the first quarter guidance.
We have a very deep liquids drilling inventory and I previously mentioned an additional 3 200 drilling locations in the Eagle Ford.
We remain committed to managing a conservative financial structure and in addition to gas properties we are selling some working interest positions in non-operated oil and liquids rich production this year to maintain our 30% limit on the net debt-to-cap ratio.
We intend to divest $1.2 billion of acreage and producing properties of which we've closed on $340 million of primarily gas properties year to date and we have an additional $50 million in progress.
We expect most of the remaining 2012 sales will consist of either outside-operated oil properties or noncore liquids rich gas assets.
We expect to sell over 3 000 barrels per day of liquids this year on an annualized basis and have taken this into consideration in the guidance for full year 2012 that we issued last night.
As previously stated we have 0 interest in growing North American gas volumes and we expect our North American natural gas volumes to decline 11% year-over-year in 2012 due to dispositions and severely limited natural gas capital investment.
However our game plan is to preserve our large dry gas core resource play positions so we can exploit them several years down the road when gas prices improve.
Our total aggregate production growth will be 5.5% this year but because 200% of the growth emanates from liquids and at the current 35:1 oil to gas price ratio we expect to generate strong 2012 growth in EPS EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow.
Based on the current NYMEX strip we expect that our 2012 North American revenue ratio will be 84% liquids and 16% gas compared to only 29% from liquids just 4 years ago.
When you consider that approximately half of our 2012 North American gas is hedged that means that only about 8% of our North American total revenues are exposed to spot gas prices.
Simply put we think we're better situated than any other large cap E&amp;P to deal with the current natural gas price environment.
I'll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Good morning.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $13.5 million and $57.7 million for the full year.
For the fourth quarter 2011 total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.66 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $154 million.
Total acquisitions for the quarter were $200 000 and $4.2 million for the year.
For the full year 2011 total exploration and development expenditures were $6.47 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $656 million.
For 2011 approximately 10% of the drilling program CapEx was exploration and 90% was development.
Approximately 20% of the CapEx was allocated to dry gas drilling.
For the full year 2011 proceeds from asset sales were $1.43 billion.
At year end 2011 total debt outstanding was $5.0 billion and the debt-to-total capitalization ratio was 28%.
At December 31 we had $616 million of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $4.4 billion for a net debt-to-total capital ratio of 26%.
The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 50% and the deferred tax ratio was less than 1%.
Similarly the effective tax rate for the year was 43% and the deferred tax ratio was 61%.
We also announced another increase in the dividend on the common stock.
This is the 13th increase in 13 years.
Effective with the next dividend the annual indicated rate is $0.68 per share a 6.25% increase.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with the earnings press release for the first quarter and full year 2012.
For the first quarter the effective tax rate is estimated to be 35% to 50%.
For the full year 2012 the expected effective tax rate is 35% to 45%.
We have also provided an estimated range of the dollar amount of current taxes that we expect to record during the first quarter and for the full year.
Regarding price sensitivities with our current hedge position in 2012 for each $1 move in crude oil prices net income is impacted $32 million cash flow is impacted $47 million.
For each $0.10 move in natural gas prices net income is impacted $11 million and cash flow is impacted by $16 million.
Now I'll turn it back to Mark.
Thanks Tim.
Now I'll provide our views regarding macro hedging and then some concluding remarks.
Regarding oil we still think that the global supply demand balance is tight and the fundamentals dictate the current $100 WTI price.
The upside risks are mainly geopolitical.
The downside risk is a second global recession and for that contingency we've recently increased our crude oil hedge position.
For 2012 as a percent of North American oil production we're approximately 23% hedged at $104.95.
We're 33% hedged at $105.36 for February 1 to June 30 and 14% hedged at $104.26 for the second half of the year.
I'll also note that we expect to commission our St.
James crude unloading facility in April.
Based on the current WTI LOS differential we would plan to move up to 100 000 barrels a day from different areas to take advantage of the crude price uplift at St.
James.
We continue to have a very cautious outlook regarding 2012 natural gas prices and fortunately as a percentage of North American gas we're 45% hedged at $5.44 for the year.
We've recently layered on 150 million cubic feet a day of hedges for 2013 and 2014 at $4.79.
Please see the table that was included in our earnings press release for the details of our hedging contracts.
Now let me summarize.
In my opinion there are a lot of important points 8 in total we'd like you to take away from this call.
First the game plan we articulated several years ago is working.
We've captured world-class low-risk liquids positions that are driving the strongest organic liquids growth primarily oil of any large cap independent.
In parallel our EPS adjusted EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow are growing at high rates.
We expect this to be a multiyear trend.
Second we're accomplishing this game plan with relatively low net debt which was 26% at year end.
Third our 4 liquids plays the Eagle Ford Barnett Combo Bakken and Wolfcamp/Leonard constitute the most powerful horizontal liquids arsenal of any independent E&amp;P.
Each is world-class in size is located in the onshore lower 48 in producer-friendly states and generate strong reinvestment rates of return.
Additionally we believe that both public and sell side data indicate EOG is achieving the highest liquids reserves per well at the lowest cost in each play.
I'll also note that our front end leasehold costs were likely the lowest in industry for each play.
Fourth with our expanded Eagle Ford reserve estimate we feel even more confident that our estimated reserve potential reserve recoverable of 1.6 billion barrels of oil equivalent net after royalty Eagle Ford asset is the largest net oil reserve accumulation found in the U.S.
in the past 40 years.
Further we believe that this play generates -- likely generates the highest reinvestment rate of return opportunity in the entire E&amp;P industry for large-scale play.
Fifth our Barnett Combo North Dakota Bakken and Permian Basin plays are all performing as we expected.
All of these have long-term growth upside.
Sixth we have a plan to deal with our 2012 funding GAAP and already we're nearly 1/3 of the way towards our 2012 property disposition target.
Because of our liquids growth our 2013 funding GAAP narrows considerably or since a lot of our acreage will be vested by then we could decelerate CapEx and achieve only robust instead of outstanding 2013 liquids growth.
Seventh with 2 EOG sand mines now in operation in our crude-by-rail facilities in the Bakken Eagle Ford Cushing and St.
James we're comfortable that we can both reduce well costs and continue to obtain the highest oil net backs.
We have recently seen differentials at Clear Brook Minnesota increase to $15 to $25 off of WTI and as much as $42 below LOS for Bakken-related production.
Using our own crude-by-rail facilities in North Dakota we are currently transporting approximately half of our Bakken oil from Stanley to Cushing to capture the higher margins.
During the second quarter we'll have our St.
James rail unloading facility in service giving us the flexibility to quickly react to these types of market conditions.
We can then avoid local market disconnects and sell our crude off of either WTI or LOS benchmarks.
There are a number of new crude-by-rail projects planned for this year.
What's important for EOG is that we secure both the loading and offloading facilities.
We have origination facilities in Stanley North Dakota and in the Eagle Ford.
We have offloading or destination facilities at both Cushing and St.
James.
Unit trains require tremendous amounts of real estate and a secure supply of crude oil and as part of our marketing strategy we put both pieces in place early on.
And finally there are at least 3 significant discriminators that separate EOG from the pack.
First we have the 4 best domestic liquids resource plays in the industry bar none.
Second our ownership in these 4 plays is 100%.
We don't have any JVs.
Our Eagle Ford acreage is an example of why we've shunned JVs on our major oil plays.
It we had done a JV a year or 2 ago we would effectively have given away a portion of the 700 million barrel Eagle Ford upside that we just announced.
Lastly we're unique in that we're the only company that's reduced its North American gas production in 2009 2010 2011 and plan to do so again in 2012.
We think that's a rational business response to chronically low gas prices and that's what our shareholders expect of us.
Thanks for listening.
And now we'll go to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions]  We will go first to Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of questions.
Actually one specific question on the Eagle Ford and one follow-up if I may.
You've clearly got a world-class asset here under -- obviously congratulations on the results that you've come out with on this.
My questions are on the constraints on basically how your drilling plans have changed relative to you prior reserve estimate.
And what I'm really getting at is a lot of value could potentially be accelerated if you accelerate the drilling program.
But I'm just wondering what your thoughts are around in the context of your balance sheet limitations on the number of wells that you plan to drill.
And I've got a follow-up on that subject please.
Yes Doug the real limitation on how much more we can ramp up the Eagle Ford activity level from current levels is personnel and I'd say learning curve knowledge.
On the personnel side for example if we said "Wow we just increased our reserves considerably we're going to double activity in 2012 over expectations " we would be flatly out control in terms of being able to intelligently manage that increased investment.
We just don't have enough qualified technical people to do that.
So that's one issue.
The other issue is that it's obvious that we're learning quite a bit as we go on in this Eagle Ford play.
You can tell that from the improved quality of our well results that we've reported each quarter.
Obviously the spacing is something we're learning more.
So we're going to take this at a moderate pace because we're going to be a lot smarter a year or 2 from now than we are today relating to this asset.
So it is possible that with the relative size increase that we've just announced that in 2013 and later we may elect to accelerate development of this.
But it's really not so much on the capital side.
It's going to be more a function of have we got the people qualified to handle a further step up and have we got our learning optimization such that we could say dramatically increase activity even more on there.
So it's a complicated picture.
You can't really look at it on just advancing net present value without considering these other items Doug.
What's your follow-up question? Research Division</strong> My follow-up is really on -- you talked about upwards 4% to 10% is the kind of recovery range you'd be you ultimately think you could maybe move to at some point.
Maybe I'm being a little optimistic there.
You're currently at 6% on your assumptions.
What would it take for you to take that number higher? Yes I'm not going to commit to a number in terms of what's the highest percent we could think about.
But it's probably in that range of 10% to 12% really in terms of what we see today with today's technology.
The next 2 more steps here we need to determine is the 65 to 90 acre spacing is that the most dense we can drill or is it -- should we be even looking at more dense? And the other possibility here is secondary recovery.
And we mentioned on the call that we'll be initiating a pilot project in the Bakken to get more oil out of the ground using water injection.
In the Eagle Ford we probably would not try water injection but we have some other things in mind there.
So it's quite likely that within the next 12 to 18 months we'll have a pilot project going in the Eagle Ford of a secondary recovery nature that we hope would be successful.
But we just have to play it out.
With 28 billion barrels of oil net in place under our acreage this is clearly an improvement.
Recovery factors is clearly the single most important thing we can be doing here in EOG and we're giving it appropriate focus.
And we'll go next to Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mark on the midland Wolfcamp results it appears that the -- at least to me the early rates versus the 280 000 barrel equivalent EURs even on an after royalty basis it seems like those 2 don't jive.
Can you just comment on what you're seeing from a curve standpoint as you get this update on higher rates? Yes Brian we are making progress.
We've continued to increase the lateral link.
We're also working on the frac designs to improve the wells and their recoveries.
And we're working on the spacing patterns too.
So we did update the reserve model last year one time and the thing that we're really evaluating there is we test these various spacing patterns and we down spaced to tighter spacing.
We're just trying to give us enough information and enough time to fully evaluate the effect on the ultimate EURs on wells.
So at this point that the 280 Mboe kind of wells on the model that we're using I mean it could increase over time but we're not ready to do that yet.
But the play is going really well.
I mean we're focused primarily on developing the middle zone and the numbers that we're using for the reserve for well are conservative.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
My second question is just on the Q1 volumes.
2012 looks great Q1 volumes are flattish sequentially.
Can you guys go into just some more detail on the drivers behind that? Yes Brian.
Three different drivers on the Q1 volumes.
We've always said on these resource plays you can't just take a straight line quarter to quarter to quarter to quarter and assume that our production growth is going to be that way.
The biggest single component of the lumpiness in our production growth is what we call pattern drilling and frac-ing.
If you notice in those Henkhaus wells for example in Eagle Ford that we mentioned to you on the press release there typically what we do there is we drill 4 or 5 of those wells.
We don't frac any of them individually and then we wait till we get all the wells drilled then we line them up and frac them 1 2 3 4 5 without producing any of them.
And then when they're all frac-ed we turn them all on at one time.
So you get a big burst of production but it's just a function of how many wells have you drilled in the pattern what's your frac schedule and everything.
And in the first quarter we've got really I'd say an abnormal amount of wells that we're going to be patterned drilling and frac-ing.
So that's affecting it.
We've also got some downtime in some gas processing plants that we're anticipating that's going to hurt some of our NGL production and oil production from some of our combo areas.
And then the last thing is a little bit of property dispositions that as we mentioned because the gas market is so weak the majority of our $1.2 billion worth of property dispositions this year are going to have some liquid component with them.
And so we're trying to get those scheduled timing.
So you can't expect that the first quarter and potentially the second quarter are not going to have strong year-over-year or quarter-over-quarter growth numbers -- excuse me the year-over-year is going to be very strong in the first quarter.
I believe it's a number like 40% 40-plus percent.
But we just caution you don't just take a straight line on our quarter-to-quarter growth in 2011 and just extrapolate that in 2012.
We will go next to Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just on the Eagle Ford I wanted to see if you could comment on whether or not you're seeing any interference on your down space wells when you go into 65 to 90 acres.
I know you don't have that much production history but can you just comment on kind of what you're seeing there and whether or not you think you maybe need quite a bit more time before seeing that? Yes.
We think we've seen enough to feel pretty comfortable on the down spacing in terms of evaluation.
To be honest with you on many of the down spacing patterns we found out that the down space wells are better and stronger than the original widely-spaced wells.
And of course if we were to have an interference it would just the opposite of that.
And what we're seeing is the effects of 2 things: One the original spacing that we had was just too wide to drain the areas.
And the second thing is is that those old wells may have been say a year 2 years old.
Now we're coming in between them and drilling.
And our completion techniques have improved considerably during that time frame.
So the data from the down spacing once we interpret it I would classify it as a slam dunk that 130 acres spacing was too wide.
So the data when you analyze it is pretty unambiguous really.
And that's why I think a lot of people were expecting that sometime perhaps later in 2012 we'd be announcing down spacing conclusions.
But the data is just -- it's pretty crystal clear.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess in terms of your NGL growth guidance for 2012 you took it up pretty significantly.
I want to get a sense of what's driving that whether or not maybe there was some higher than expected NGL cuts in any of your wells here.
Yes.
Actually Leo to be honest with you the previous numbers that we had had for liquids growth expectations 2012 were 30% oil and I believe the number was 16% NGLs and now we've jumped the NGLs to 30%.
Those previous numbers were about 18 months maybe 24 months old.
You'll remember when we had an analyst conference a couple -- several years ago we gave a 3-year forecast for '10 '11 and '12 and we really never moved those '12 numbers.
So the 30% NGL number currently is frankly just simply updating a number that was stale even 12 months ago.
So it's not that we're seeing a huge influx of increased NGL mix or anything like that.
It's really we're just updating a stale number.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right that's great.
And I guess are you guys adding acreage scale in some of your North American plays as well? I know you mentioned that in the past.
Yes.
We've got 3 goals and we highlight that on one of the pages in our outlook [ph] that the -- kind of our goals for this year.
The first goal is to find some new greenfield North American horizontal liquids plays and we're working feverishly on that.
Second goal was to improve recovery factors in some of our larger plays that we've already exposed.
And today you saw the results from the Eagle Ford on that and we mentioned that in the Bakken we're looking at 2 things there.
One is down spacing and then the second is secondary recovery.
And then the third over-arching goal for this year is to find a large horizontal oil accumulation outside North America.
And you heard us mention this Vaca Muerta shale that we'll give you more details on as the year progresses.
So on all 3 of those goals those are still our targets our for this year.
And clearly we've nailed goal #2 and goals #1 and 3 hopefully will have good results by the end of the year.
We'll go next to Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the Wolfcamp shale a couple questions there.
First you highlighted in your comments that you would expect a combo-like Barnett combo-like mix of oil gas and NGLs.
The IP that you highlighted though seemed to have a little bit more of an oilier mix.
And I wondered if you expected that mix to change as the wells begin to climb.
And then also whether the goal is -- whether you think you're playing for 2 horizontals 1 middle and 1 upper whether you see additional zones that could give perspective.
Yes Brian.
The Wolfcamp is really a combo-type play.
The GURs will gradually go up over time.
So the early rates on the oil are a bit higher than they will be later in the life in the well.
So yes we feel those mixes that we've given are accurate.
And then on the -- we are working -- primarily most of our drilling nearly all of our drilling so far has been in the middle zone.
And we're having really good results in the middle zone in -- really in every acreage block that we test we tested the middle zone as being really good.
We do have the one well that we have in the press release.
It's The University 9 #2803 in Reagan County and we IP-ed that well at 883 barrels of oil a day and that was a full lateral upper zone test and that well looks very good to us and is very encouraging.
Other than that we have very limited test in the lower zone and the upper zone.
So we have plans to do additional testing this year in those zones and we'll see how that goes.
But we're really optimistic.
The middle looks very consistent.
And so we're working on our development patterns out there trying to establish what's the proper spacing.
And we're also -- we've implemented our self-sourced sand and new completion techniques.
And so the play is going really well.
One of the great things about the play is that we've significantly reduced the well cost over the last few quarters with the implementation of our sand and our drilling efficiencies have gone up.
We recently drilled a well from spud to TD in 4.9 days.
And so our operational people in West Texas are doing an excellent job on reducing cost as well as developing a play properly.
So we're very encouraged about the play.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then lastly on the Eagle Ford you highlight in your presentation some of the IP is exceeding 3 000 barrels a day.
Is that a function of longer laterals and where your cost would exceed your $5.5 million objective? Is it a sweet spot around seemingly at Karnes County or is there some other factor driving those results? Yes Brian.
The best way to explain that is is that we've found that there are certain portions of this reservoir that are more prolific than other portions of the reservoir.
The average well of 450 Mboe we quoted there is a mix.
The kind of wells we quoted in our press release are more like 800 to maybe up to 1 million barrels of oil reserves per well.
And we know that we have a tranche of those wells quite a few of those in that mix of 3 200 yet to drill.
And if we wanted to we could target and drill that tranche over the next couple years and really shoot up [indiscernible].
But to be fair and objective it's not so much that they're super long laterals it's that they're located in a portion of the reservoir that we believe is definitely more prolific than in some other parts of the reservoir.
So we'll say you can expect we'll continue to be able to report wells of that similar type as we go throughout 2012 but we'd kind of point you more to the average well and say the average well is quite strong and gives you 80% return.
So hopefully that gives you an explanation.
And our next question comes from us Arun Jayaram with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Mark you talked about some down spacing opportunities in the Bakken.
What does that do in terms of your inventory in the core part of the Bakken? And how many rigs do you plan to run in the core part versus the Bakken Lite in '12? Yes.
Actually I mentioned in this call kind of focusing on the core but we're really -- it's fair to say that we're looking at the entire Bakken.
The Bakken Core is the sweet spot of the entire Bakken play and then what we call the Bakken Lite is equivalent to pretty much every other company at Bakken.
It's a lesser quality but it's still good.
The spacing that we have initially drilled these on are in the Core 640s and in the Lite 320s.
And we're testing the down spacing in both the Core and the Lite.
In the Core we're testing 320 down spacing; in the Lite we're testing 160 down spacing.
If it was to work in both areas and it looks good so far the reserve uplift would be about the 50 million barrels.
So we don't want to mislead you and mischaracterize it and say "Wow we can double our reserves in the whole play under that circumstance there." In terms of the rigs this year we're running 7 rigs and I would guess -- Gary how many are in the Core how many in the Lite you'd guess? We're still trying to retain acreage there.
So we'll probably run somewhere around 4 in the Lite and 3 in the down spacing.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Just my quick follow-up.
Mark you did raise your NGL guidance for '12 quite a bit and crude was more flattish perhaps reflecting property sales.
On a same-store sales basis if you didn't have the asset sales what would have been the growth guidance on the crude side? Yes.
Well we kind of -- I don't have the numbers.
We quoted you numbers a bit over 3 000 barrels a day of liquids on an annualized basis is what our total liquids would have gone.
And maybe that's 2/3 oil 1/3 gas but -- or NGLs but I can't quote you an exact number on that Arun.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
But just the mix shift is it just moving a little bit more towards NGLs versus crude? Is that fair as you get more experience in the play? No not really.
What I'd say is that as I mentioned on one of the previous questions the increase we showed in NGL growth from I believe it was 16% previously up to 30% in the update is really that the old NGL number was probably about a 2-year-old stale number that we just never bothered to change.
And now we've updated it.
So it's -- we haven't really seen a mix change during '11 that says we're becoming more NGL mix versus oil.
It was really just updating a stale NGL number.
And we'll take our next question from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Mark in terms of the assets you've sold already could you just identify those for us? And what are some of the assets that you intend to sell? And then kind of along those lines apart from asset sales and in terms of your gas organic gas production decline what would you estimate the base decline to be if you did nothing? Well yes in terms of your first part of your question there Joe the sales that we've done to date and that we have in progress which are roughly $400 million those were predominantly gas.
Just a tiny bit of liquids and oil with those.
But the remaining sales of roughly $800 million we have yet to do we just anticipate that were we to offer just dry gas properties out there in the market that they wouldn't fetch much of a price.
And so that's one change we've had to make over the last 6 months.
For this year is originally we intended that most of our sales in 2012 would be just dry gas.
But due to the collapse of gas prices we've had to change that.
And I'd say out of the 800 million remaining those are going to have -- essentially all of those are going to have a liquid component.
Some of them are just going to be flat oil areas and we are looking at selling some outside operated stuff in the Bakken and some of them are going to be gas with rich liquids component in there.
In terms of our gas production base decline and things like that I'd probably not -- don't want to offer up a specific number for you on that.
The only thing I would offer up is that one of the things that I've noted on previous earnings calls is that it's been disturbing to me to see most of the independent group has strongly grown their North American gas volumes over the last 3 years and have been in my mind active contributors to this gas bubble whereas EOG has done just the anti-thesis of that.
As I mentioned earlier this will be the fourth straight year where our North American gas volumes have declined which we believe is a rational economic response to these chronic low gas prices.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then in the Permian in your Wolfcamp play Midland Basin what's the lateral length you're using right now? What number of fracs? And then could you comment on your prospectivity for the Cline Shale? Joe in the Permian and the Wolfcamp our average lateral length is about 7 600 feet.
And we're typically -- we're experimenting on the number of stages but they could be anywhere from 20- to 30-plus stages per well.
What was the name of that play you...
Research Division</strong> The Cline Shale.
The Cline Shale no.
Not familiar with that.
Yes I'm not either.
It may have some other name out there in the Permian Basin but it's fair to say that's not one of our stealth plays.
We don't even -- we haven't even heard of it hardly.
And our next question will come from Pearce Hammond with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> I was curious what your outlook is for service cost and what you might be assuming for service cost inflation or deflation in your 2012 CapEx guidance and then I have a follow-up.
We've got so much of our services kind of committed on the long-term.
Of course that's in our guidance and in our projections.
We've got 42 rigs under long-term contract out of our 75 and we've got 11 of our frac fleets under long-term out of 20.
We are seeing quite a lot of services more available with the slowdown in the true gas plays most especially in the Permian Basin.
We're starting to see some of that in Eagle Ford.
So we don't see much increase in our cost of services.
We do have our own self-sourced sand and we'll be servicing the majority of our wells with that.
We've got self-sourced asset we've got our own rental fleet.
So we're pretty well set here not see seeing much increase in 2012.
Research Division</strong> And then a follow-up back into your 3 200 Eagle Ford locations what spacing assumptions and prospectivity are you assuming across your entire acreage position in the Eagle Ford? Well we've reduced the spacing assumption from the previous 130 acres to a mix of between 65 and 90 acres depending on the different geologic areas of the play.
Is that...
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] perspective is that all down space then? Well the 3 200 incremental wells are what we call sticks on a map and I guess the best way to describe those 3 200 wells yet to drill is that we have a map of the Eagle Ford play and it's got all the subsurface geology with the faults et cetera on it.
And it's also got all the lease boundaries that we have.
And then our people have laid out actual specific locations for 3 200 wells on that map that will conform to the lease boundaries conform to the subsurface geology and so on.
So I guess one way to describe the 3 200 wells is that we already have those 3 200 wells defined as to exactly where we would intend to drill them.
Hopefully that's helpful to you.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Mark Papa for any additional or closing remarks.
I have no additional remarks.
So thank you very much for staying with us on the call.
And that does conclude today's conference ladies and gentlemen.
We appreciate everyone's participation today.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Mark Papa.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing second quarter 2012 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risk associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also includes certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release in Investor Relations page of our website.
With me this morning are Bill Thomas President; Gary Thomas Chief Operating Officer; Tim Driggers Vice President and CFO; and Maire Baldwin Vice President Investor Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website last night and we include third quarter and full year 2012 guidance in yesterday's press release.
This morning I'll discuss topics in the following order: I'll initially review our second quarter 2012 net income and discretionary cash flow then Bill Thomas and I will provide operational results and our second half 2012 and preliminary 2013 business plan.
Tim Driggers will then discuss financials and capital structure and I'll follow with our macro view and hedge position and finish with concluding remarks.
As outlined in our press release for the second quarter 2012 EOG reported net income of $395.8 million or $1.47 per diluted share.
For investors who focus on non-GAAP net income to eliminate mark-to-market impacts and certain nonrecurring items as outlined in the press release EOG's second quarter 2012 adjusted net income was $312.4 million or $1.16 per diluted share.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP discretionary cash flow EOG's DCF for the second quarter was $1.4 billion.
I'll now address our operational results in key plays.
During the second quarter all 3 of our production components approached or exceeded the high end of our 8-K guidance.
Our total crude and condensate production was up 52% year-over-year and total liquids were up 49% year-over-year.
Total EOG second quarter year-over-year production growth was 16.5%.
North American gas was down 7% as predicted but Trinidad gas was up 21% due to higher contract takes.
Our aggregate unit costs were below projections.
As we did on the first quarter call we are again increasing our full year 2012 total company liquids production growth target this time from 33% to 35% consisting of 37% crude and condensate growth and 31% NGL growth.
Our total company growth target has also increased again from 7% to 9%.
As we've previously stated because of the value imbalance between crude oil NGLs and natural gas EOG's focus has been primarily on oil growth which will continue to drive year-over-year increases in EPS adjusted EBITDAX and DCF.
The current imbalance between oil and gas is a 33:1 ratio.
In the second quarter our year-over-year increase in GAAP EPS was 34% adjusted EBITDAX growth was 19% and DCF increased 20%.
During the last 3 years EOG has proven to be the large-cap independent E&amp;P with the highest annual absolute organic crude oil growth rate with increases of 35% 52% and projected 37% for this year.
This growth is more amazing when you consider we've sold $3.2 billion of assets during this period.
A chart in our most recent IR presentation shows EOG is the industry leader in horizontal oil production by a 2:1 ratio over the #2 producer.
Additionally we have quite a substantial amount of North American natural gas reserves in large resource plays which we've inventoried until market conditions improve.
I'll now discuss the plays driving our extraordinarily high organic oil growth rate starting with the Eagle Ford.
On our May earnings call I described EOG's Eagle Ford position as our 800-pound gorilla.
Based on the results in the past 90 days we still continue to believe our acreage is the largest domestic net oil discovery in the past 40 years and generates the highest after-tax reinvestment rate of return of any current large hydrocarbon play.
We're the largest crude oil producer in the play with 103 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net production for June 76% of which was oil and 14% was NGLs.
I'll now discuss 5 key points regarding the Eagle Ford.
First this has been our strongest quarter ever for completion of what I'll call monster oil wells which I'll define as wells having IP rates of 2 500 barrels of oil a day plus gas and NGLs.
Our press release lists several of these but by my count we had 16 wells with initial production rates between 2 500 and 4 800 barrels of oil per day plus gas and NGLs this quarter all in which EOG has 100% working interest.
The 16 monster wells in one quarter is particularly startling when we haven't seen any announcement by other Eagle Ford operators of even one such monster well to date.
This is a testament to both the quality of our acreage and our completion expertise.
During the quarter we set a new record for the best single well the Boothe 10H which IP-ed at 4 820 barrels of oil per day with 7.5 million cubic feet a day of rich gas which is the upper limit of our testing facilities.
Second our rate of learning on optimizing oil recovery from this asset continues to dramatically improve.
During the quarter we made excellent technical progress in understanding how to get more oil out of the Eagle Ford and the results are showing up in improved well quality.
For proprietary reasons I'm not going to go into specifics here other than to let you know I'm directionally very pleased with the results and they're showing up in our well results like the Boothe #10H.
Third we plan to drill 330 net wells this year up from the 300 we previously indicated.
Because our drilling time per well has declined from 21 days in 2009 to the current 14 days but dropped from 23 to 20 rigs during the second half of the year.
We also front-end loaded our 2012 Eagle Ford completion activity.
So consequently our rate of production growth will moderate in the second half.
In the first half of the year we brought 179 wells to sales and plan to bring 145 wells to sales during the second half.
These nuances have been taken into account in our second half guidance.
Fourth we're now connected to the Eagle Ford -- or excuse me to the Enterprise oil pipeline and the new Enterprise natural gas processing plant and pipelines.
So the go-forward concern regarding takeaway bottlenecks is considerably reduced.
Essentially all of our Eagle Ford oil is currently priced off an OIX index.
And fifth and finally our logistics regarding our self-sourced Wisconsin frac sand have performed smoothly all quarter and our frac cost savings are still $0.5 million a well.
However I will note that we are now pumping bigger fracs and this has offset our cost savings.
Combined with the higher cost of gel our average well cost is about $6 million per well higher than our $5.5 million target.
We've previously given you typical economics noting we expected an 80% direct after-tax reinvestment rate of return or a $5.5 million well cost.
For the first half of this year our actual direct after-tax reinvestment rate of return exceeded 80% using the actual well cost so our impressive economics are still intact.
To summarize the Eagle Ford it continues to improve better than expected and I expect to see further improvements in well quality and reserve recovery.
We continue to test hydro-spacing in the play.
I'll now turn it over to Bill Thomas to discuss the Bakken Wolfcamp and Combo plays.
Thanks Mark.
Last quarter we advised you that we were more optimistic about the Bakken and Three Forks as growth vehicles than in the past several years for 3 different reasons.
I'll give you some updates regarding these reasons.
First 320-acre infill drilling in the Bakken Core continues to generate positive results.
The press release shows several new infill wells.
The reason we're so excited about EOG's core area down-spacing is that our 90 000 net acre core is the sweetest spot in the entire Bakken and it's where 22 of the 30 best Bakken wells in the entire play have been drilled.
So this is a rich hunting ground for down-spacing.
With our Bakken acreage now held by production we are shifting our focus to increasing the recovery factor with down-spacing and improved frac technology.
Second we continue to have great results in our Antelope Extension area which is 25 miles southwest of the core area.
Typical recent wells here are the Riverview 100-3031H and 04-3031H which tested at rates of 1 834 barrels of oil per day and 1 863 barrels of oil per day plus rich gas from the Three Forks and Bakken respectively.
Third the third growth area is our Stateline area where we recently completed the Stateline 08-3328H in Eastern Montana at 1 260 barrels of oil per day.
With confirmed success we estimate 200 potential locations in this area.
As you can see we have plenty of room to run in the Bakken and Three Forks.
Additionally we continue our Bakken Core waterflood pilot project and we expect to have preliminary results by year end.
Shifting to our Permian Basin Wolfcamp and Leonard horizontal plays our results continue to be consistent with previous quarters.
The recent Wolfcamp completions are the Munson #1001H #1002H and #1003H and the University 43A-#0807H wells which IP-ed at 1 110 856 1 015 and 760 barrels of oil per day respectively plus rich gas from the middle interval.
We are currently completing a couple of Wolfcamp wells in the upper zone and expect results later in the year.
In the New Mexico Leonard the Ross Draw 8 Fed #2H and  Ross Gulch 8 Fed Com #1H tested at 722 and 540 barrels of oil per day with 270 and 145 barrels per day of NGLs and 1.9 million and 1 million cubic feet per day of natural gas respectively.
We have 88% and 91% working interest in these wells respectively.
Also a significant Leonard step-out the 100% working interest Pitchblende 29 Fed Com #1 was successful and tested at 1 026 barrels of oil per day with 120 barrels per day of NGLs and 650 Mcf per day of gas.
This well sets up a lot of additional locations.
To summarize our Permian Basin program is generating excellent results.
We continue to test spacing in multiple targets in both plays and we believe our 240 000 acres has significant upside for EOG.
In the Barnett Combo our results are consistently good.
In the second quarter we completed a 4-well pattern on our Tatum and Tatum A units with initial full well rates of 400 and 600 barrels of oil per day with 100 to 140 barrels per day of NGLs and 700 to 900 Mcf per day of residual gas.
Our drilling times continue to improve allowing us to drill more wells with fewer rigs and we expect to complete 200 net wells this year.
We've also been able to avoid any gas processing pinch points that we were concerned about earlier in the year.
In addition to our big 4 oil plays we continue to have smaller levels of horizontal oil activity in the Mid-Continent Powder River Basin southern Manitoba et cetera and we continue to test new horizontal oil play concepts.
Now I'll turn it back to Mark.
Thanks Bill.
Outside North America we still expect our 100% working interest in East Irish Sea Conwy crude oil development project to start up in the second half of 2013.
We recently installed the platform and expect to commence drilling in the first quarter 2013.
In Argentina our first horizontal Vaca Muerta oil well has been completed and is under evaluation.
We hope to have some definitive results on next quarter's call.
In Trinidad recent gas takes have been higher than expected due to higher indigenous gas demand.
We expect some methanol and ammonia plant maintenance downtime in the second half and our full year guidance projects only slightly higher full year 2012 Trinidad gas production compared to 2011.
There's nothing new to report on the Kitimat LNG project.
I'll now address 2 other key EOG differentiators crude-by-rail and sand plants.
Our St.
James Louisiana crude-by-rail facility has been operational since mid-April and the impact showed up in our overall second quarter U.S.
crude oil realizations versus WTI.
The terminal construction cost is already paid out.
Now that the Eagle Ford oil pipeline is operational we've moved a number of rail cars to the Bakken and we're primarily using the crude-by-rail system to move our Bakken crude to Louisiana capturing the current $20 differential between Clear Brook Minnesota and St.
James Louisiana.
During July we're selling about 20 -- excuse me about 50 000 barrels gross at St.
James and we expect this volume to increase to approximately 80 000 barrels of oil a day by year end as more tank cars become available.
Our Wisconsin frac sand system is also working as planned.
The first sand shipments began late last year and in combination with our Fort Worth plant is currently providing our frac sand needs for more than 700 wells this year.
Most importantly the sand cost savings to our Eagle Ford program is still $0.5 million a well.
We've recently had several investor questions regarding NGLs and ethane rejection.
In the second quarter and also in July we experienced only minor NGL curtailments.
Most of our NGLs are processed at Mont Belvieu and not Conwy.
During the past few weeks we've seen ethane prices rise as ethylene plants have come online after the planned maintenance shut-ins of the first half of the year.
As a reminder in the second quarter only 9% of EOG's North American revenue emanated from NGLs with 78% emanating from crude oil.
Now I'll discuss our second half 2012 and preliminary 2013 business plan.
Because we're happy with our first half results we're making only a few minor changes to our original 2012 plan.
In the Eagle Ford we plan to shift part of our drilling activity to the west and we'll be drilling a number of lower working-interest wells.
We've also reduced the number of rigs due to the increased drilling efficiencies.
On the natural gas side the changes to our plan involve dry gas drilling.
As previously disclosed we plan to spend about 10% of our CapEx this year or about $750 million on dry gas drilling in the Haynesville Horn River and Marcellus to HBP on our acreage positions.
Essentially all of these gas resource plays will be in good shape by year-end 2012 as far as acreage holding.
We also noted we would likely spend 5% on dry gas drilling next year.
We now feel that our natural gas expenditures this year will lock up essentially all of the dry gas acreage we plan to keep and that unless 2013 gas prices rise dramatically we will spend very minimal CapEx in 2013 on dry gas drilling.
We will likely run only one dry gas rig next year.
This will allow us to concentrate 2013 on oil and rich gas reinvestment opportunities while holding all of our quality multi-Tcf North American gas acreage.
We expect to sell between $1.2 billion and $1.25 billion of properties this year and through the end of July we've closed on $1.2 billion of sales.
Our single biggest sale involved our outside-operated Bakken properties which closed in the second quarter.
Even with these sales many of which involve oil or NGL production we've increased our 2012 crude oil and liquids production growth target.
We are considering doing a joint venture on at least one additional horizontal oil development play but it won't be 1 of our big 4; in other words not the Eagle Ford Bakken Permian Basin or Barnett Combo plays.
Our current net debt level is 26% and for 2013 we anticipate living within our self-imposed 30% max net debt-to-cap guideline and not issuing any equity.
I'll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Mark.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $12.1 million.
For the second quarter 2012 total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.9 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $145 million.
Year-to-date total cash exploration and development expenditures were $3.8 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
Expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $316 million.
Total acquisitions for the quarter were $108 000 and $435 000 for the first half.
Through June 30 proceeds from asset sales were $1.1 billion and as Mark mentioned through the end of July proceeds were $1.2 billion.
At the end of June 2012 total debt outstanding was $5.0 billion and the debt-to-total capitalization ratio was 27%.
At June 30 we had $280 million of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $4.7 billion or net debt-to-total cap ratio of 26%.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter was 39% and the deferred tax ratio was 67%.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with our earnings press release for the third quarter and the full year 2012.
For the third quarter and full year the effective tax rate is estimated to be 35% to 45%.
We have also provided an estimated range of the dollar amount of current taxes that we expect to record during the third quarter and for the full year.
Regarding price sensitivities with our current hedge position for the second half of 2012 for each $1 move in crude oil prices net income will be impacted by $14 million and cash flow will be impacted by $20.5 million.
For each $0.10 move in natural gas prices net income will be impacted by $4.3 million and cash flow will be impacted by $6.4 million.
Now I'll turn it back to Mark.
Thanks Tim.
Now I'll provide our views regarding macro hedging and the concluding remarks.
Regarding oil we still think the global supply-demand balance is tight and we expect prices to strengthen throughout the remainder of the year.
Two recent concerns I've heard from oil bears involve horizontal shale oil.
One concern is will the U.S.
create enough shale oil to affect global supply.
EOG's forecast is an increase in the U.S.
of 2 million barrels of oil per day by 2015 which we believe will not impact a 90 million barrel of oil a day global market.
We think there are only 3 consequential horizontal oil plays in North America: the Eagle Ford Bakken and Permian and that all other alleged oil plays are either inconsequential on a national scale or really NGL plays.
A picture is worth a thousand words and Slide 7 -- if you take a look at Slide 7 on our website it makes this blindingly obvious that there's only 3 plays that are meaningful in terms of U.S.
oil impact.
The second concern relates to possible international horizontal oil shale plays and their potential impact on supply.
My answer there is maybe it will happen but it's not likely for another 10 years at least.
Remember it's been 10 years since horizontal drilling unlocked shale gas in the Barnett and no one yet has found commercial shale gas outside North America.
Also the key to commercial shale oil or gas is the ability to drill thousands of wells at low per-well cost and whether this can be done internationally is likely problematic.
For August to December 2012 we're approximately 22% hedged at $106.69 price.
We've recently begun to layer in 2013 hedges and currently have 16 000 barrels a day hedged at $98.12 for the first half 2013.
We continue to have a cautious long-term view regarding North American gas but we do believe that 2012 marks an aider [ph] for natural gas prices.
We're comfortably hedged for the second half of this year 45% at $5.44 per MMBtu.
For 2013 we have 150 000 MMBtu hedged at $4.79.
We recently closed out our 2014 150 000 MMBtu natural gas hedge position.
Please see the table that was included in our earnings press release for the details of our hedging contracts.
In summary I want to leave you with 2 thoughts.
First how does an investor decide which company to own when it seems like every independent E&amp;P is trying to become a liquids-rich company? How to decide when every company is touting new often unproven or marginal liquids-rich plays upon which they allege they'll drill thousands of wells.
It's really simple.
Go with the company that's generating results quarter after quarter year after year.
In this business there's a lot of hype.
Results matter and they're easy to measure.
And second there's been a slight change to my retirement timing.
The original plan was that I would keep the Chairman and CEO jobs until midyear 2013 when I would retire and hand over both these jobs to Bill Thomas.
The new plan is that in midyear 2013 I'll hand over the CEO job to Bill and I'll remain Chairman for 6 additional months until midyear 20 -- excuse me until year-end 2013 when I'll retire.
The only read-through on this change is that psychologically after 31 years it's a little harder for me to walk away from EOG cold turkey than I originally thought so this plan provides a more gradual approach and orderly transition.
Thanks for listening and now we'll go to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Brian Lively from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mark on your commentary about potentially doing a JV in one of the other non-4 big plays I'm just thinking about it strategically in 2013.
Are you saying that basically that in combination with just no – essentially no gas drilling is going to kind of fund that gap for next year and allow you to continue with the high liquids growth? Well we're just -- our 2013 plan is obviously not specific yet and we'll furnish a much more detailed plan as we do every year on our year-end earnings call in February that'll have specific growth targets for both the liquids and gas.
But the predicates of the plan are clearly that the amount of dry gas drilling we're going to do next year is going to be pretty close to nothing only one rig really which is just going to be holding acreage primarily in Bradford County in the Marcellus.
And basically we're going to attempt to hold to the 30% net debt.
We'll consider selling some additional properties and we're going to heavily fund the oil plays and the NGL plays will be more -- we'll just see what happens to NGL prices.
But the oil plays are going to get the vast majority of the funding.
And the big plays there that are going to get the funding will be one Eagle Ford and two the Bakken because they're primarily oil.
The Permian Basin even though people think of it as an oil play it's really a combo play as of course is our Barnett Combo.
So both the Wolfcamp and the Leonard have -- about 40% of that production is oil and the rest of it is NGL.
So what you can look for are those 2 plays the Eagle Ford first Bakken second are going to get the lion's share of the money.
And then we'll look at some plays other than our big 4 plays.
And if it makes sense we may bring in a JV partner depending on what our cash flow what our property sales balance is.
So all we wanted to do really Brian is just signal to you that at this stage the plan is clearly there will be a further ramp down of dry gas drilling and there'll be a definite shift of capital even more heavily likely toward the Eagle Ford and toward the Bakken and at some additional plays which -- we may look at the oil or combo plays other than the big 4.
We may look at bringing in some outside capital.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mark that's helpful.
Just my follow-up question and it sort of fits in that context we saw a pretty attractive at least in my view valuation done on a JV in the Pearsall.
It looked like that acreage overlapped on your position probably more so than anyone.
Could you provide a little bit of an update in terms of what you're seeing in the Pearsall and what you're testing there? Yes.
We really -- I would just say that in relationship to the Eagle Ford acreage we realize there are multiple zones that are potentially pay zones above and below the Eagle Ford and it's not particularly likely that we would be splitting horizons vertically splitting horizons in that area.
That's not our first choice.
So that particular area is not one that directionally we're looking at carving out some other interval other than the Eagle Ford and a JV there.
That's kind of a little bit messy in our opinion.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Leo Mariani from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Obviously you've detailed some very strong results here in the Eagle Ford.
I realize that that kind of represents your sort of best results in terms of what you guys have discussed.
Just wanted to get some color on how the overall average results in the Eagle Ford if you take into account all of the wells has changed from earlier this year.
Yes.
I mean Leo we haven't changed at this juncture from the average reserves per well which we provided to people earlier which is the 450 Mboe per well net after royalty.
Now obviously some of these or most of these wells that start out at north of 2 500 barrels of oil per day are considerably better reserves than 450.
But over the entire acreage position we're still sticking to that number.
Now obviously we've made some improvements and it's possible that that number could go up with time.
But as you know we're pretty conservative.
And as we've done with volume growth projections this year we'd rather be on the conservative side.
So all I can tell you is the numbers we provided you earlier that come out to the 1.6 billion barrels and the average reserves 450 are still the numbers we prefer that you use.
But hopefully some of the comments we provided on the call would convey our enthusiasm that the Eagle Ford is a very unique rock in that the more time we spend with it the more enthused we are about the recovery factors and the ultimate potential of that rock.
But it's just going to take some time some time for us technically to get our arms about that.
But we are very enthusiastic about that asset and that's why we have 0 interest in JV-ing that asset.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great color.
That makes a lot of sense.
I guess obviously it's a little too early to discuss 2013 per your prepared comments here.
But just hypothetically if we're at kind of a $90-plus WTI environment next year and with gas drilling coming down and cash flow going up I mean there should be materially more cash available to fund the oil play.
So should we certainly at least expect in that environment to have significantly more oil-directed drilling activity next year? Yes.
I really don't want to get into 2013.
Yes I mean as a percentage of our total CapEx more -- a higher percentage will be oil-directed.
But beyond that I don't want to get into any specifics until we really get to our February earnings call.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Following up on that last question last couple questions there when you look at the techniques on the frac-ing side that have really driven some of the improved well results that you're seeing in the East what's the applicability that you may have or may not have as you move and shift activity more to the West? And is getting more wells completed in the West the main impediment or the main catalyst needed to take up that EUR or are you seeing underperformance elsewhere? I mean the reason we're shifting a bit more of the rigs to the West is mainly just an acreage earning issue.
We've got all this acreage to hold and so we just have to -- we're driven a bit where we locate the rigs by our acreage earning calendar and that's why we're -- and some of the well -- a higher percentage of the wells we drilled in the second half will be at a lower working interest than generally most the wells we drilled in the first half year are 100% working interest and we won't have that benefit in the second half of the year.
So that's why our overall production growth is going to be tempered.
Total company oil production growth will be tempered a bit as well as just a slowdown in our overall CapEx.
In terms of the West the wells in the West as a rule will not be quite as good as the wells in the East.
They'll still be wildly economic.
But it's -- on average you're not going to be getting 4 000-barrel-a-day IP wells typically in the West as you're going to get in the East.
So we're just -- we're not expecting those kind of well profiles out there but we expect quite good wells for sure.
So we're just going to have to see.
With our recent frac improvements we expect to see better wells this pass in the West and we've got a year or 2 going to West so we'll see.
And we've done some drilling in the West all this year and we found some quite good wells out there.
So all this is ground into the plan Brian.
So what we're trying to do is not let you guys on the sell side take our first half results and extrapolate them to the second half and say "EOG's sandbagging and their oil growth in the second half is going to be off the charts again." So that's my advertisement I hope I can get across to you guys.
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess on the topic of quarter-on-quarter kind of noise we can look and see the Eagle Ford number that you reported for June up 26 000 Boe a day versus what you had in April.
Now I guess we don't technically know or maybe you could help us with what the real average was during the quarter.
But that type of growth should look like you're well on your way in Q3 but I know you always like to say there may be other factors that may be more one-off.
But can you talk a little bit about the quarterly trajectory and whether you see any temporary -- beyond shifting your wells West any other temporary hiccups to the pace of the Eagle Ford growth? Yes.
I'd just say the number of monster wells that we got in the second quarter that I bragged about that was an extraordinarily high number of monster wells.
We don't expect that we're going to see that in the third quarter.
So to that degree second quarter was maybe a little bit anomalous on there.
So we're -- I'd say that there definitely is going to be a slowdown in the Eagle Ford growth third quarter versus second quarter because of the working interest issues and also because of the number of completions.
I quoted the number of completions in the second half versus the – on there and number of rigs we're running.
So as you noticed our burn rate in the first half on CapEx was at $4.1 billion and we're trying to limit ourselves just from capital discipline to spending $7.5 billion or $7.6 billion for the full year.
So we are consciously slowing down our CapEx.
And our biggest CapEx consumer is the Eagle Ford.
And the analogy I would give you is right now EOG is like a coin-operated machine.
You put in a lot of coins and we are an oil-producing behemoth with 100% efficiency.
You put in less coins we don't produce as much oil.
But we have 0 inefficiencies no exploration inefficiencies or anything like that.
And we're going to be putting in less coins in the second half than we put in in the first half and so the rate of oil growth is going to slow down a bit.
So it's just that simple.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Joe Magner from Macquarie Capital.
I appreciate that you're not necessarily getting into details on 2013 spending yet.
Can we expect that you will and I apologize if I missed this earlier maintain the commitment to keeping your net debt-to-cap below 30%? Is that still a goal for next year? Yes.
That's our target Joe.
Okay.
And I guess as we think about some of the spending that's taking place this year you've mentioned that $750 million of dry gas spending is taking place to hold leases and whatnot.
How much of that might occur again next year or will you be mostly through a lot of that activity by the end of 2012? That'll probably go from $750 million to maybe like $100 million or $150 million so it's going to drastically drop.
Just getting into one of the plays there's just some differences in terms of how companies are referring to the Wolfcamp Shale horizons that are being targeted.
Can you I guess maybe remind us how you think about the upper lower and middle Wolfcamp and how that might compare to some of the other industry norms that are being discussed? Yes Joe.
Ours might be a little bit simpler nomenclature.
We divide the 3 -- the Wolfcamp it's about a 1 000-feet dig so we divide it into 3 zones: the upper zone the middle zone and the lower zone.
And those are defined stratigraphically there's shalier more really clay intervals that separate the 3 zones.
So they're kind of distinct zones that we can map around the basin.
And we're not real sure and we know some have broken them up into 4 different zones and things like that and so I'm not sure exactly what the difference is between us in EOG.
But ours is a pretty simple thing.
And our focus right now of course has been on the middle zone.
It's been really -- it's got really good consistent pay quality and we're consistently making really good wells in that.
And then we are currently completing a couple of upper wells now and we'll have some results on those later down the road.
But that's how we're doing it.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Pearce Hammond from Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Could you give an overview of how you see service cost trending right now in your 4 core areas? Yes.
We've seen the drilling rig rates drop.
They've been negotiated probably only 10% lower.
The tubulars they're dropping also.
They're probably down about 10%.
But as you'll recall most of EOG's services are pretty well contracted.
We've got about 40% of our rigs drilling rigs under long-term and then about 2/3 of our frac fleets are contracted.
And then yes EOG provides our own sand.
We buy our mud wholesale.
We provide our own sources of acid gel that sort of thing.
So our costs are pretty well locked in.
So we wouldn't see much additional change other than yes we'll continue to drive efficiencies into our operations.
And that's how we've reduced our costs both on the number of stages per day and then dropping the number of days per well.
Research Division</strong> And then of the Bakken and the Eagle Ford and the Permian which 1 of those 3 would be the tightest right now on services in general? Probably the Permian the tightest right now.
But we're not really having any problems there.
That's probably our lowest activity area.
Of course we're busiest in the Eagle Ford and then next in the Bakken.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the impact on production on the various disposals of the non-operated properties.
What sort of scale is that and when will that hit? Did that close in the quarter or will it come later? Yes Bob.
In terms of when it'll hit it closed late in the second quarter so when it will really hit is in terms of third quarter.
So that's another reason that the growth of second half oil production will be a little bit tempered because of that impact.
In terms of the scale of it we typically on the assets we sell which is $1.2 billion this year so far we haven't released who's been the buyer and we haven't released what volume we've sold and it's because we don't really want to get into all this stuff about as adjusted volumes or pro forma or anything like that.
We're not an as adjusted company.
So we'd just say it was the biggest single sale of our $1.2 billion that we sold but that's as far as we want to go on any disclosure on it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then do you have much in the way of non-op production left in the Eagle Ford or Bakken? In the Bakken no.
I don't think we have any.
It'd be just a tiny miniscule amount really.
In the Eagle Ford we do have some -- we are partners with PXP on some where we operate some and they operate some on a 50-50 basis.
So it's not a big amount relative to our Eagle Ford position.
As just a guess Bob wow 95% maybe a little bit more than that of our Eagle Ford we operate maybe 97% something like that we operate.
But there is a little bit that is joint outside operated.
And moving on we'll take our next question from Biju Perincheril from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the Pearsall question earlier have you drilled any wells to test the Pearsall? And drilling Eagle Ford does that hold your Pearsall rights? Second question first.
Yes drilling an Eagle Ford well generally does not hold the Pearsall rights because the Pearsall is deeper than the Eagle Ford.
And generally most of the leases you only earn to the depths drilled.
In terms of -- we have done a little bit of testing of the Pearsall and really haven't disclosed any results yet on it.
So you can take that as either a positive or negative.
What we will say again are there are 3 or 4 zones both above and below the Eagle Ford that have the potential maybe to be productive and we're kind of testing them in time.
But they're really so secondary or almost tertiary to the potential of the Eagle Ford that they're -- not given it a very high priority relative to optimizing the Eagle Ford.
In other words if we can figure a way to improve our recovery factor by 2% or 3% in the Eagle Ford it dwarfs whatever we might find in some of the other intervals in terms of magnitude.
So that's kind of what's driving our priorities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in the Eagle Ford it looks like you've recently jumped over to I guess further Northeast in Madison County.
Are you looking at the Eagle Ford or is that a different play like the Woodbine there? Can you share any color on that? Yes we have drilled a well.
It's called the Eaglebine play generally by the industry.
And so we're testing some concepts over there.
But we've really not thought much about that and are not really prepared to talk much about that kind of play at this point.
And moving on we'll take our next question from Bob Morris from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> When you mentioned potentially doing a JV in another oil play I assume that's separate from the JV you did with Mitsubishi in the Tuscaloosa Marine Shale and is a play that you've not disclosed or talked about yet.
Yes.
Don't try and pin us down too much.
We're really -- what you ought to take directionally out of that is our inventory in -- out of our big 4 plays is -- and our success rate there is so high that we could easily push essentially all of our cash flow into those plays next year.
And so in any of our other oil plays horizontal oil plays we may elect to push our capital away from those and use JVs and allow us to funnel more money particularly into the high rate of return Eagle Ford.
So that's kind of the thinking behind what we're talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the joint venture with Mitsubishi in the Tuscaloosa Marine Shale what has been your activity under that joint venture to date? Yes.
Well currently we've commenced drilling and probably by year end we'll have first wells results on there.
So I guess on the February earnings call we'll know something from the first well.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Irene Haas from Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> I have actually 2 questions for you.
Firstly I wanted to find out second half looking into the Bakken and also the Eagle Ford how should we think about the differential versus WTI or LLX however you want to express that and then also within your U.S.
portfolio percent of Bakken crude and Eagle Ford? So that's my first question.
My second question is in light of the recent activity in Midland Basin specifically to the Wolfcamp and Cline Shale play are you still thinking with your 430 000 barrels per day EUR? Because one of your competitors have sort of raised that bar.
Yes.
Okay.
Thanks Irene.
I'll fill the question about the differentials and then I'll ask Bill Thomas to fill the question about the reserves in the Wolfcamp there.
Our plan -- in the Eagle Ford we're selling essentially all our oil now in the Houston market.
And currently in the Houston market we're getting the same price essentially as if we were selling that oil in St.
James Louisiana.
So we're getting pretty much St.
James price.
And then the Bakken we continue to move a little bit of the Bakken oil on pipeline and selling it at Clear Brook just to keep some pipeline access and that little bit of oil is getting -- suffering a severe discount like the Bakken oil does up there.
But the majority of our Bakken oil is getting moved by rail and sold as St.
James.
So essentially the majority of both those areas Bakken and Eagle Ford is being sold at St.
James prices.
As to the question on the Wolfcamp reserves Bill? Yes Irene there's a couple things comments on that.
Yes we're sticking -- I mean right now we're holding to our 430 Mboe per well on the Wolfcamp.
And then it's the same really on the Wolfcamp or the Eagle Ford.
When we're in the early stages on these wells we're doing 2 things.
We're trying to make better wells but we're also downspacing.
So as we drill wells closer and closer together we're trying to measure what the EUR per well is going to be.
And so we're very cautious on increasing the EUR until we really get the proper spacing.
And that goes for really any of these plays.
And the other thing I would say about the Wolfcamp is it's not -- it's clearly in third place as far as rock quality.
And it's cleared us -- we've completed I think 72 wells so far to date.
And it's going to be more difficult in the Wolfcamp play to get the recovery factor up.
It's not certainly as easy as the Eagle Ford play or the Bakken play to get really high recovery factor.
So we're being very prudent.
We're doing everything we can technically to make the play better.
And it's a really good play and we're very very satisfied with our results there.
But I would just be somewhat cautious on trying to extrapolate that we're going to get 6% or some really high number recovery factor out of the Wolfcamp as we've done in the Eagle Ford and some of these other plays just because the rock quality and the difficulty there has got a higher degree of difficulty.
Moving on we'll take our next question from Doug Leggate.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the guidance if I could go back again to the north of 100 00 barrels a day in the Eagle Ford I got to tell you I'm struggling to get to your guidance for the year Mark.
Could you just walk us through -- I know you've already gone through it but how many of the 145 completions are planned to be in the lower working interest areas? And if you could help us with the delta between your 100% working interest to what the actual difference is order of magnitude basically.
And I have a follow-up please.
I don't know if we have that data right at hand here Doug.
Maybe Maire can get some of that information to you later on.
I'd say again the best way to look at it is probably the -- we've got more rigs moving to the West.
We have less monster wells that are going to be completed in the third quarter versus the second and some of them are lower -- clearly some wells are going to be lower working interest and there's just less capital going to be spent in the second half of the year.
And then you've got the effect of in the first half we sold $1.2 billion worth of assets and the effect of the liquids that we sold are going to bite in the second half of the year.
So that's kind of the way to get to it and that's the best explanation I can give you.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I can try the same question slightly differently.
You would still expect Eagle Ford to grow from June levels in the second half? Is that a fair assertion? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question's also on guidance.
It's on the operating cost this time because it seems you had a pretty phenomenal second quarter on costs.
But your guidance again has it moving right back up again in the second half of the year.
Can you just walk us through why that would be the case? And I'll leave it at that.
Yes.
One piece of that guidance relates to Trinidad.
If you notice Trinidad we had very high volumes in the second quarter and then we're toning down those volumes for the second half.
Trinidad has quite low operating costs.
And so to the degree that those volumes are going to come down in the second half that's going to skew the average operating cost back up a bit.
So that's one piece of it.
And a lot of it is again the growth in the -- the volume growth in the second half is going to just average -- the rate is going to be a bit lower across the whole company.
So that's why we're expecting it to go up a little bit more.
So we hope we can beat on the operating cost for the second half but we'll just see.
And at this time that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Papa for any additional or closing remarks.
No additional remarks.
Thank you very much for listening.
And thank you.
That will conclude today's conference.
We thank everyone for their participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to this EOG Resources Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
And at this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Mark Papa.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for taking the time to join us on election day.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing third quarter 2012 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release in Investor Relations page of our website.
With me this morning are Bill Thomas President; Gary Thomas Chief Operating Officer; Tim Driggers Vice President and CFO; and Maire Baldwin Vice President Investor Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website last night and we included fourth quarter and updated full year 2012 guidance in yesterday's press release.
This morning I'll discuss topics in the following order: I'll initially review our third quarter 2012 net income and discretionary cash flow.
Then Bill Thomas and I will provide operational results.
Tim Driggers will discuss financials and capital structure.
I'll then follow with our macro view our preliminary 2013 business plan and concluding remarks.
As outlined in our press release for the third quarter 2012 EOG reported net income of $355.5 million or $1.31 per diluted share.
For investors who focus on non-GAAP net income to eliminate mark-to-market impacts and certain nonrecurring items as outlined in the press release EOG's third quarter 2012 adjusted net income was $468.7 million or $1.73 per diluted share.
Our third quarter non-GAAP earnings versus guidance was a result of a pleasant trifecta higher oil volumes higher oil price realizations and lower unit costs.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP discretionary cash flow EOG's DCF for the third quarter was $1.6 billion.
I'll now address our operational results in key plays.
For the third quarter all 3 of our production components met or exceeded the high end of our guidance.
Our total company crude oil and condensate production was up 42% year-over-year and total liquids were up 40%.
Total EOG production increased 12.4% year-over-year for the third quarter.
North American gas was down 10% as predicted but Trinidad gas increased 17% due to higher than expected contract takes.
I'll also note that essentially all of our unit costs were below midpoint projections and several such as LOE and DD&amp;A were below the low point of our guidance range.
The benefits of high volume growth on our unit cost is showing up in the numbers.
We're also pleased to note that our G&amp;A per dollar of revenue is one of the lowest in the peer group.
As we did following both first and second quarter results we are again increasing our full year total company liquids production growth target this time from 35% to 38% boosting our crude oil growth target from 37% to 40% and our NGL growth target from 31% to 33%.
Our total company growth target has also increased from 9% to 10.6%.
These increases are the result of continued outperformance from our top oil plays.
As we've repeatedly stated we're not interested in growing hydrocarbon volume simply for the sake of growth.
In fact we purposely shrunk our North American gas production for 4 straight years simply because it's a money loser.
We are however very interested in growing our financial metrics such as EPS adjusted EBITDAX and DCF.
In the third quarter our year-over-year increase in non-GAAP EPS was 108% adjusted EBITDAX growth was 39% and DCF increased 37%.
We believe we're one of very few large cap E&amp;Ps who have shown a substantial increase in these financial metrics in both 2011 and 2012.
The biggest single driver for this growth in our financial metrics has been our high organic crude oil growth rate: 35% in 2010 52% in 2011 and projected 40% this year in spite of $3.3 billion of total assets sales over the same period.
On a go-forward basis we expect to continue to have the best organic oil growth rate of any large cap independent although the year-over-year percentage numbers will be smaller as we become a large oil company.
I'll now discuss the plays driving our high organic crude oil growth rates starting with the Eagle Ford.
The play was again the biggest driver of our quarterly oil growth outperformance as it has been all year.
We're the largest crude oil producer in the play with 109 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net after royalty for the quarter 75% of which was oil and 13% was NGLs.
I'll now discuss 4 key points regarding the Eagle Ford.
First during the August call I may have caused a flurry of comments among sell siders when I mentioned that during the second quarter we completed 16 monster wells which I defined as having IPs between 2 500 and 4 800 barrels of oil per day plus gas and NGLs.
This reflects the quality of our acreage plus our completion methodology.
During the third quarter we added 12 additional monster wells one of which the Baker-DeForest Unit #4H tested at 4 598 barrels of oil per day which -- with 4 million cubic feet a day of rich natural gas at a normal choke rate flowing into production facilities.
We have 100% working interest in 10 of 12 of these monster wells several of which are outlined in our press release.
Second we have drilled in our flow testing several multi-well pilots spaced more densely than our current 65 to 90 acres spacing.
We expect to have some spacing conclusions in the effect on the recovery factor from these pilots during the first half of 2013.
Third the majority of our Eagle Ford crude is currently priced off an LLS premier market index providing an advantage over WTI pricing.
Additionally with the cost advantage of our self-sourced frac sand and further efficiencies our average well costs have been drifting back down towards our $5.5 million per well target instead of the $6 million I reported last quarter.
Together the LLS indexed oil price and the lower well costs have further improved the excellent economics of the play.
And fourth we're currently running 20 rigs and expect to drill 320 net wells this year.
Our current average drilling time has decreased to 13 days per well.
Overall we've significantly slowed our total company capital activity to stay within our capital budget.
We're currently running 52 rigs across the company compared to an average of 70 in the first half.
To even further slow capital activity we've dropped the number of completion crews and the number of days per crew.
This is the primary reason we expect fourth quarter total EOG liquid volumes to be slightly down from the third quarter.
Besides 40% year-over-year oil growth is plenty strong for a company our size.
We have to catch our breath so we can come out of the starting gates strong in January.
I'll now turn it over to Bill Thomas to discuss other North American plays.
Thanks Mark.
We continue to be particularly upbeat about the Bakken and Three Forks potential on our acreage in the Williston Basin.
In the Bakken Core area the 320-acre downspacing has proven to be successful and 2 recent wells further confirmed the strength.
The Fertile 46-1608H tested at 1 732 barrels of oil per day with 90 barrels per day of NGLs and 363 Mcf per day of natural gas.
The Fertile 47-712H (sic) [Fertile 47-0712H] tested at 1 258 barrels of oil per day an  83 barrels per day of NGLs and 332 Mcf of gas.
We have 92% and 78% working interest in these wells respectively.
We'll be testing 160-acre downspacing in the Core late this year and we hope to have some results from our pilot waterflood project by February.
In the Antelope area we're applying improved frac technology to our current well completions.
We recently completed an outstanding Antelope Three Forks well the Hawkeye 100-2501H for 3 196 barrels of oil per day with 5.5 million cubic feet per day of rich natural gas.
EOG has a 73% working interest of this well.
Other recent Antelope wells are listed in the press release.
In 2003 to 2015 we plan to spend most of our North Dakota capital in these same 2 areas primarily downspacing in the Bakken Core and further development of both the Bakken and Three Forks targets in the Antelope Extension area.
We plan to develop our Bakken lot and Stateline areas in subsequent years.
Shifting our focus to the Permian Basin Wolfcamp and Leonard horizontal plays.
We're seeing Wolfcamp results similar to previous quarters.
But in the Southeast New Mexico Leonard we're seeing improved results.
We previously said the returns on these 2 plays were equal but we now rate the Leonard above the Wolfcamp.
The Wolfcamp well quality hasn't declined it's just that the Leonard has improved.
Three recent Leonard wells or the Diamond 8 Fed Com 3H 4H and 5H were tested at 962 1 148 and 1 162 barrels of oil per day with approximately 1 million cubic feet of rich natural gas each.
We have 90% -- 96% working interest in these wells.
Our press release we have several recent Wolfcamp wells and we continue to feel comfortable with our 430 Mboe per well growth factor.
Most of our Wolfcamp completions are in the middle zone with several good wells noted in the press release.
We completed the Mayer SL 513LH (sic) [Mayer SL #5013LH] in the lower Wolfcamp with an initial production rate of 1 290 barrels of oil per day with 946 Mcf per day of rich natural gas.
We have 77% working interest in this well.
This is our first long lateral completion in the lower zone and we're encouraged by the results.
To date we have completed 3 long laterals in the upper zones with mixed results.
We continue to evaluate the economic extent and productivity of the upper and lower zones across our acreage.
Overall both the Wolfcamp and Leonard are good plays but they are combo-type plays and are inherently less economic than the Eagle Ford and Bakken which are black oil plays.
The same is true of the Barnett Combo where results continued to be consistent with past quarters.
The typical Combo well recovers 80 000 barrels of oil 140 000 barrels of NGLs and 850 million cubic feet of gas gross for $3.4 million completed well costs and yields a 25% after-tax rate of return at current product classes.
This year we drilled a number of successful step-outs extending the product -- productive acreage of the play.
In addition to these plays we have smaller levels of horizontal activity in the Mid-Continent Powder River Basin in Southern Manitoba.
Also we continue to test new greenfield horizontal oil ideas in North America.
Now I'll turn it back to Mark.
Thanks Bill.
Outside North America we expect our 100% working interest East Irish Sea Conwy crude oil development project to start up in the second half of 2013.
In Argentina our horizontal Vaca Muerta oil well yielded lower-than-expected results.
The production results were similar to a nearby vertical well we had completed indicating no multiplier effect for the horizontal versus the vertical.
We're still evaluating results and plan to proceed cautiously during 2013.
In Trinidad our third quarter gas takes were higher than expected due to incremental short-term market demands.
There's nothing new to report on the Kitimat LNG project.
I'll now address 2 other EOG differentiators oil margins and sand plants.
You'll notice that for the third quarter our U.S.
crude oil price realization was $5.45 over WTI.
Considering where our crude is produced this is likely the most advantageous realization of any similarly situated company.
Our 2 biggest production areas are the Eagle Ford and Bakken.
As I previously mentioned our Eagle Ford crude is currently priced off on LLS index.
In the Bakken almost all of our crude plus some third-party crude is being railed to our St.
James Louisiana terminal and receiving LLS prices.
Additionally we're railing a portion of our Wolfcamp crude to Louisiana.
On the well cost side our sand plants continue to function smoothly and provide the frac cost savings we've described in previous quarters.
EOG's success is based on a simple equation: higher crude oil volumes and higher crude oil price realizations combined with lower well and unit costs and less money-losing North American natural gas volumes equals more net income.
I'll now turn it over to Tim to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Mark.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $12.7 million.
For the third quarter 2012 total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.6 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition cash expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $161 million.
Year-to-date total cash exploration and development expenditures were $5.5 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
Cash expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $477 million.
Acquisitions cost year-to-date totaled $435 000.
Through September 30 proceeds from asset sales were $1.2 billion.
Our goal is to close on an additional $100 million prior to yearend for a total of $1.3 billion of asset sales for the year.
At September 30 2012 total debt outstanding was $6.3 billion and the debt to total capitalization ratio was 31%.
At September 30 we had $1.1 billion of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $5.2 billion for a net debt to total cap ratio of 27%.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter was 37% and the deferred tax ratio was 52%.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with the earnings press release for the fourth quarter and full year 2012.
Our updated 2012 total CapEx guidance is approximately $7.6 billion excluding noncash items.
For the fourth quarter and full year the effective tax rate is estimated to be 35% to 40%.
We've also provided an estimated range of the dollar amount of current taxes that we expect to record during the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Now I'll turn it back to Mark.
I'll now provide our views regarding macro hedging and concluding remarks.
Regarding oil we think the current NYMEX plus $2 to $3 per barrel reasonably reflects likely 2013 prices.
We continue to believe that U.S.
shale oil won't flood the global market for the reasons I articulated on our previous earnings call.
Likewise we think any meaningful supply effect from shale oil outside North America is many years away and will be very slow to develop.
For the first half of 2013 we have 98 000 barrels of oil per day hedged at $99.39 per barrel.
And for the second half we have 68 000 barrels per day hedged at $99.45 per barrel.
We also have some options next year that may be exercised and would increase our hedge position by an average of 42 000 barrels of oil per day at an average price of $102.16.
Regarding gas we expect 2013 prices will be better than 2012 but not good enough to provide a cost of capital full cycle return on North American gas well drilling.
Our current 2013 hedge position is 150 000 mmbtu per day at $4.79 per mmbtu excluding unexercised options.
Please see the table that was included in our earnings press release for the details of our hedging contracts.
Now let me provide a brief outline of our 2013 business plan.
As usual we'll provide our specific 2013 plan with volumes CapEx et cetera in our February call.
But today we can provide 4 directional guidelines.
First we expect our overall 2013 CapEx to decline below 2012 levels primarily because we've accomplished our goal of converting our dry gas resource play acreage to held by production status.
This year we spent roughly $700 million primarily in the Haynesville Marcellus and Horn River converting leases to held by production and we expect to spend only about $100 million next year on dry gas drilling.
This 2013 reduction in dry gas CapEx will also boost our 2013 overall reinvestment rate of return.
Second our 2013 pattern of volume growth by product will continue to be dictated by returns and the trend will be similar to the past several years.
In 2013 we expect another peer-leading oil growth year although the year-over-year percentage increase won't be as robust as in the past since we're becoming a bigger oil company.
We expect decent year-over-year NGL growth but a lower rate than our higher rate of return oil trajectory.
We also expect another year our fifth year of declining North American gas production since it's unprofitable.
In Trinidad we'll likely have flat year-over-year gas production since this year we sold at close to maximum deliverability.
Third in 2013 we'll continue to fund North American greenfield oil ideas as well as concepts to improve recovery factors.
Because NGL prices how weakened relative to oil we'll likely shift capital from the Barnett and Permian Combo plays toward the Eagle Ford and Bakken.
And fourth if one assumes that 2013 oil prices WTI oil prices average in the low 90s then our preliminary plan of combined lower CapEx and increased oil volumes essentially shrinks our 2013 funding gap to a very manageable amount.
This is important because for the past 3 years one recurring theme from investors has been EOG's significant outspend of our organic cash flow i.e.
would we blow up our balance sheet while developing our oil reserves.
Today we sit at 27% net debt to total cap and A- AAA credit ratings.
And unless oil prices drop significantly in 2013 we'll approach neutral from a cash flow versus CapEx point.
Since our strong oil growth will continue past 2013 this cash flow versus CapEx trend is positive for 2014 and should potentially allow us to return more cash to stockholders post 2013.
Now let me conclude.
In summary I want to leave you with one thought.
In this business there continues to be a lot of hype.
The advent of oil resource play has allowed many companies to talk about capturing billions of barrels of oil or billions of Boes as if they're talking about apples on a tree.
Be careful of the hype.
Go with the company that's putting the points on the board quarter-after-quarter year-after-year whether it's financial metrics or operational metrics such as organic oil growth.
Results matter and they're easy to measure.
Thanks for listening and now we'll go to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear first from Pearce Hammond with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> In the Eagle Ford and the Bakken what inning do you think we are in regarding drilling efficiency improvements? Essentially are there more substantial leads ahead in drilling efficiency? Yes there are.
To give you an idea last quarter we said that our average drilling comp is 14 days; this quarter it's 13 days.
And we're now -- some of our fastest wells we're drilling in 8 days.
So we have room to beat the 13-day average timeframe.
If you would have asked me 18 months ago whether we'd be able to drill our fastest wells in 8 days I would have frankly told you no way.
So I would expect that we're going to see further improvements over the next 12 months in the average time to drill the wells which is going to give us a good chance to drive the average well cost down even further.
I mean right now the direction we're seeing is the rig comps are trending down some of the service costs are trending down.
So I think that the average well cost of $5.5 million for 2013 is eminently achievable for our wells in the Eagle Ford.
And that probably beats the industry average in the Eagle Ford by $2 million a well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then a follow-up in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken do you think we're getting to a point of diminishing returns on the number of frac stages? Or do you think we will see the average number of frac stages per well gradually increase? We're getting close.
We've continued to increase the number of stages.
We may do it slightly more here in 2013.
Yes I don't see us going doubling the number of frac stages over the next 2 or 3 years from where we are today if that's the direction of your question Pearce.
Next question will come from Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to see if I can get a little bit more color on the rig drop that you talk about.
You talk about going from 70 to 52 rigs here.
Like in your slide deck you mentioned going from 5 to 4 in the Wolfcamp and from 7 to 5 in the Bakken.
But just a little bit more color on other areas that you've sort of dropped rigs.
If you'd give us any kind of numbers around that that'd be great.
Yes.
And let me kind of segue that into kind of the production targets that we've given you for the fourth quarter specifically the oil production numbers.
The simple way I'd explain it is we've -- we spend about $6 billion through the first 3 quarters of the year and we gave you an estimate that basically says we intend to spend about $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter.
So we have very roughly a $2 billion a quarter run rate and now we're telling you we're going to spend $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter roughly.
And the growth rate of the company the oil growth rate I'd say is very similar to a coin-operated machine.
EOG right now is very similar to a coin-operated machine.
You put dollars in and you have 100% efficiency.
There is no inefficiency due to exploration and there is essentially no operational inefficiency.
So our growth rate for the fourth quarter and -- is essentially going to be a function of how many dollars we spend.
And that's why our growth rate in the fourth quarter is going to be less than it was in the first 3 quarters.
And we basically are just curbing our spending to stay within our capital budget and we're just slowing down pretty severely really in all of our plays.
But the most severity is going to be in the Eagle Ford where we are cutting completion units cutting rigs and just slowing the process down.
So -- and I've also seen a couple early comments there on our -- where people are saying "Well you're probably sandbagging on your oil volumes in the fourth quarter." I know we've beaten the volumes in the first 3 quarters on the guidance but don't assume that we're sandbagging in the fourth quarter because we are putting the brakes on it quite hard on the CapEx spending.
And frankly I expect it will hit about the midpoint of our 8-K target for the fourth quarter on our oil volumes and not overachieve.
It's not due to lack of prospectivity.
It's not due to well quality.
It's just flat due to a coin-operated machine that we're putting less coins in there in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
I guess can you maybe just kind of address how that might ramp up in the Eagle Ford? I mean I guess obviously you're pulling back to stay within your budget this year.
But if you do spend slightly less and you're spending quite a bit less on gas might you start ramping the Eagle Ford back up kind of next year? Just any color on sort of directionality and how to think about that? Yes the directionality is what we intend to do specifically in Eagle Ford is the last 2 weeks in December we are going to start dropping coins back in the machine at a pretty heavy rate.
And it's not going to show up in any December volumes but it's going to give us a headstart in January.
It will start showing up in early January volumes.
And we've got this ground into our numbers.
So our intention is is to get a pretty fast start out of the gate in early January.
So I wouldn't -- don't assume that because we're losing momentum in the fourth quarter that loss of momentum is necessarily going to carry over into the first quarter of 2013.
We are adjusting for that and we'll be reversing that momentum in December.
And it should show up in the January volume numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
That's really helpful.
And I guess in terms of the Eagle Ford it looks like your step-out wells away from Gonzales County were really strong in this quarter.
I know that you had kind of said that the overall average in the play may be lower.
We've had a lot of wells that are 700 000 800 000 Boe in around Gonzales but it looks like they're pretty strong.
Is this kind of maybe biased the EUR is up a little bit in Eagle Ford? Yes are you talking about the wells in the West there Leo that we highlighted on that map? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
The LaSalle and McMullen stuff that you guys have announced.
Yes yes yes the -- I would still say that the direction that we hope to be heading with the downspacing if the downspacing's successful is more likely to be that we end up with more locations at the 450 Mboe net reserve average as opposed to increasing the 450 Mboe average.
So although certainly in certain areas the wells are greater than 450 Mboe.
But what we would hope the downspacing does for us is give us more locations with an overall aggregate average of 450 Mboe as opposed to raising that average across the entire acreage block.
And that's what we hope the outcome is sometime in the first half of next year.
And where we stand on the downspacing is we've got multiples tighter spacing pilots than the 65 to 90 acres already drilled.
We have initial tests on those tighter spacing pilots.
They look good.
And what they need now is time.
We just need some time to observe the performance of those tighter spacing pilots to just see how they do and then cross check them against our computer models.
And that's the phase where in now it's just the -- some time to watch the production history on these tighter pilots.
We'll now hear from Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mark the operating results this quarter were substantially better than the expectations you laid out in Q2.
Just curious on the LOE side could you kind of bucket some of the categories where you're seeing the biggest improvements? Yes Gary? Yes.
We're seeing improvement in our SWD salt water disposal disposal because we've spent some money and facilities installing additional SWD takeaway.
And also yes we've made some improvements on chemicals.
And it's just kind of across the board just working all of our efficiencies on lease operating expenses.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So there's really no reason to not think that those cost improvements will continue to get better and at least stay the same through 2013? Yes we should see that.
We're -- if you check the 8-K we're forecasting them to go up a bit in the fourth quarter that's weather-related particularly for the North Dakota side where you get this snow issues and things like that.
But directionally particularly on the oil side as you look at the full year 2013 we expect to have another year of robust oil growth.
I think you're going to see the unit cost trending in a good direction.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just for my follow-up question Mark you made a comment about in 2014 hoping to return more cash to shareholders.
Implication there is you expect to be free cash flow positive.
I just wonder if you could put some more color around your expectations.
I know we're not even at 2013 yet but in terms of the free cash flow generation as you get into 2014.
Yes.
The overall point I wanted to make is I consider 2013 to be kind of an important year because really for the previous 3 years we have clearly been fighting a large kind of a chronic organic free cash flow deficit each year.
And it has been a shareholder concern issue.
And 2013 I think as long as oil prices are in the low 90s for WTI I think we are finally going to free ourselves from that burden.
And then as you project 2014 2015 2016 we're still going to have I believe peer-leading large cap group oil growth during those timeframes.
And it's going to put us in a position where we're going to have flexibility to do some things that we haven't been able to do in the past such as consider more significant dividend increases consider accelerating our oil growth by additional CapEx increases if we wanted to.
It certainly would put us in a position where we don't have to sell properties or possibly even buying in shares.
So what I just wanted to note is that the one shareholder concern that people have had the last 3 years about us in my opinion is going to go away starting next year and it's going to turn into a positive starting in 2014.
Our next question will come from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk to you maybe bigger picture.
Obviously you have a giant resource here in the Eagle Ford.
You've talked about 1.6 billion 1.7 billion barrels of reserves.
I just wanted to see if you could provide us on longer term thoughts on how you milk the cow so to speak or to develop this resource to maximize value.
You've been running this year a little bit more than 300 well completions.
Do you plan to accelerate that Mark? Or how do you think that it's -- that's fit to develop this in terms of a well count? Yes and it kind of gets into our 2013 kind of capital allocation situation.
The first thing we have to do is get a handle on what is the true resource here.
Is it 1.6 billion barrels as it currently stands which is our 65 and 90 acre spacing? Or is it some other number depending on what our spacing tests show.
So that's kind of job 1 and we think we'll have that answer as I mentioned earlier within 6 months.
And then based on that then we decide how -- what's the most intelligent way to develop this thing.
But I will say the direction for 2013 is to -- we are more likely to attempt to accelerate development above the 320 well level as opposed to decelerate the development below the 320 well level in 2013 assuming oil prices stay at current levels.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Interesting.
And then the reduction in year-over-year CapEx is that just from rig efficiencies or completion efficiencies plus a little bit less spending on gas plus maybe less infrastructure spending? Is that fair? Yes.
I mean the direction I could give you is and without trying to give you the exact numbers but we're -- it's kind of like filling the pieces we're telling you we're spending $7.6 billion this year.
And if you say we spent $700 million on dry gas this year and we're going to spend $100 million next year that ought to give you a pretty good direction on what we are thinking at this point in time our CapEx is going to be for next year.
That's all I'll say about it at this point.
But you can kind of fill-in the blanks there.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And last question Mark obviously the returns have gone down as you frontloaded spending in your oil plays.
And obviously given the high reinvestment opportunities in the Eagle Ford high return opportunities your returns should rise over time.
I guess as you think about the longer term focus on growing your returns do you -- where does EOG stand in terms of adding 1 or 2 more unconventional plays? Where are you in that process? Yes well again our position is different than most peer companies.
Most peer companies when they -- it seems like to me when they acquire acreage on a potential new play they make a big announcement about it often before they even drilled the well.
And our position is just the opposite.
Whenever we have a play that we have confirmed through multiple wells that works and whenever we've tied up whatever acreage level we want that's the first time you'll hear about our greenfield play.
And so we're working on multiple ones and the first time you hear about it is when we have everything tied up as closely -- as tightly as we can.
So we're not going to give you an indication of any timeframe or anything related to them other than to let you know we're working on some.
Now we'll take a question from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> There's a glass half-empty and a glass half-full way of looking at your guidance here.
The glass half-full way is you're disciplined in spending building a backlog of uncompleted wells particularly in the Eagle Ford where we should see a sharp step-up as you reengage completions in the first half.
And the glass-half empty way maybe okay $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion in CapEx per quarter would drive lower oil productions so therefore your maintenance costs to just have flat production would be higher than $1.6 billion a quarter.
Can you just address these how you think about that backlog shift and what you think is closer to reality? Well in general terms I'd say that you'd be a pessimist to say a glass half-empty view of EOG's earnings report.
I'd say that the previous quarter and this quarter we've pretty much blown the doors off the earnings particularly relative to most peer companies.
So I'd -- in a polite way I say I reject the glass half-empty view.
So we have the advantage of having a -- the poker hand and looking at our cards for 2013.
And what I can tell you Brian is I like the hand we have that we're playing for 2013.
I wouldn't change it with anybody else's hand.
I feel pretty comfortable.
I would tell you frankly that the only thing that can sink the EOG's ship in 2013 is a disastrous decline in crude oil prices and that's why we've hedged reasonably aggressively for 2013.
So absent the major collapse in crude oil prices what I would predict is that if you like what you saw of EOG in 2012 you're going to like 2013 from EOG.
So that isn't a direct answer to your question but I hope it gives you a feeling of the confidence that I have in our 2013 story.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then separately can you give us any additional color on some new venture areas maybe your thoughts on the Pearsall Tuscaloosa Marine Shale and whether we should expect you to consummate any new joint ventures as you've kind of talked to a little bit before either in some of these new venture areas or in less Core plays? Yes.
I would say in the Tuscaloosa Marine Shale the only reason we even came public on that was that a trade magazine had basically tracked our acreage position there and published it in a trade magazine.
And so the current status of that is probably on the next earnings call we will have a report from our first well.
We have drilled a horizontal well and we'll be frac-ing it soon.
And so we'll have some data on it and of course we're in a joint venture on that.
And we'll just see what the results are.
And in the Pearsall we are aware that the Pearsall zone exists below the Eagle Ford on portions on our acreage.
Frankly we are not as enthusiastic regarding the Pearsall as some other companies are.
And so you don't see any advertisements in any of our books trumpeting the Pearsall.
And so at this stage we're not thinking that the Pearsall is going to be the next big huge stealth play for EOG.
Now moving on to Biju Perincheril with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
In the Eagle Ford if you are targeting something more than 320 wells next year does that mean rig count going back up to sort of high-20s? Or are we looking at something lower because of the efficiency gains you've already achieved there? And also can you give us some color on the completion increase how many earning you are running earlier and what the current number is? Yes.
On the first question there on how many rigs we might run next year in the Eagle Ford again I don't want to get too specific on there.
But I mean we'd -- based on the efficiencies we're seeing in the days per well and the reduction in days per well I mean we might be in the range of 25 rigs next year or something like that.
It doesn't look like it's going to be in the high-20s or anything like that for the Eagle Ford in there.
And the completion crews I think we're running 4 right now completion crews.
And I don't have right now what number we would be running to for next year in terms of it.
But like I say in our next quarter we'll be giving you a specific well count as to how many wells we would intend to drill in the Eagle Ford and we can give you specifics on the completion crews and exactly how many rigs we would intend to run as well as the Bakken Three Forks well count in the Wolfcamp and so on and so forth.
So we're not trying to be evasive but February is the time when we provide those level of specifics and we'll give it to you at that time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay no that's very helpful.
And then if I look at your current Eagle Ford production it looks like roughly cash flow neutral if I look at the activities this year.
First of all is that a fair assessment? And when I think about longer term development in the Eagle Ford is it fair to think that you will keep activities up sort of more or less match cash flows there? Yes.
Your first part of that statement is correct that in rough terms we're roughly cash flow neutral currently in the Eagle Ford.
As far as on a go-forward basis we don't look at just the Eagle Ford in terms of did our -- our plan would be to run the Eagle Ford 2013 or 2014 on a cash flow neutral basis.
We -- our decision on what we do with the Eagle Ford on a go-forward basis is going to be more a function of what we think the true total reserves are in the Eagle Ford and what are our alternative investment opportunities and what's the reinvestment rate of return in the Eagle Ford versus other areas.
So it's -- we don't look at it just on Eagle Ford alone really Biju.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And one more question if I could.
Some of your peers have talked about a restricted choke program in the Eagle Ford and maybe that's yielding higher EURs.
If that's something you've tested any plans to test that? And does the efficacy of a program like that depends on the gas-oil ratio? Yes.
The -- all this stuff about -- the stuff about what size choke and people producing in a link to the EURs we probably have more knowledge I mean than any company certainly on the Eagle Ford oil production than anybody.
And what we have found is that the higher the gas-oil ratio the more sensitivity the choke management -- the more important the choke management is.
For example in the Haynesville and in our Barnett Combo we actively pursue choke management and we are looking at right now choke management for our Wolfcamp areas.
In the Eagle Ford in the position where our acreage is which is the black oil area or the area where we fortunately have very high oil portions of the mix the choke management is not very important.
Where other companies have acreage where they have higher gas-oil ratios the choke management may be important to ultimate recoveries.
But we can't speak about their positions and whether choke management works or doesn't work on their acreage.
What we can say is that on our acreage choke management in our opinion is not that critical to EURs.
And that's because we have the preferred acreage frankly.
It's just more oily.
So that would be our response to that issue.
Next question will come from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to those Baker-DeForest wells in the Eagle Ford that you announced this morning.
Could you tell us where on that 65- to 90-acre spacing range those wells are? And more generally when you have those monster wells are they more likely to be on tighter spacing reflecting more oil in place? Or are they more likely to be on a wider spacing reflecting more conductivity and better fracs? Yes.
Those probably -- the Baker-DeForest wells I don't have the exact numbers but they would be on the tighter spacing areas.
I can't tell you whether they're on 65 or 90 but I would say they're probably closer to the 65- than the 90-acre spacing in terms of that.
So what -- all -- essentially all the 12 well -- monster wells that we would have related to you here in this particular quarter will be on pretty tight spacing on there.
So it's -- what's happening is it's -- the quality of acreage plus we're giving these wells larger fracs in terms of pounds of sand and number of stages relative to the fracs we would have given these identical wells say 12 or 18 months ago and some other tweaks that are proprietary tweaks to the fracs.
So those are the 2 things that are the keys to these monster wells.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Great that's great detail.
And it sounds like there's just more oil in place and so there's just more to come out there.
Yes.
And it's just a more effective stimulation than we would have given to these high oil-in-place areas even a year ago or 18 months ago.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one quick follow-up.
Going -- on the Bakken going back to your comments I think they were on the -- your last earnings call when you talked about the response of the original offset wells to the downspacing the subsequent downspacing that when you put a frac in you saw that sustained response in the original well.
Is there any update that you can offer on that whether you've seen that -- whether you've seen that sustain in wells or whether you've seen that replicated in new areas as you've downspaced? Yes Charles.
We do continue to see that in our downspacing like in the Fertile wells that are on -- that are in the press release.
When we do the aggressive fracs and we've been working on our frac technology in the Bakken as well as we have in the Eagle Ford and we're making really good progress there.
So when we do the more aggressive fracs in the downspacing we do see response from the offset -- the older offset wells.
So they -- generally they come up and they kind of double in production.
And then they go on a decline and eventually they'll get back on the original curve that they were on but there is some -- certainly some additional reserves in oil that we're contacting with these more aggressive fracs.
So we're really pleased that our Bakken results are certainly improving because of the frac technology in the downspacing.
It looks like we have time for one final question that will come from Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Quick question what assets are relying on salt water disposal that you'd mentioned earlier on the LOE comments? That's principally the Bakken.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other crude-by-rail what role do you think that ultimately plays? Is that something that simply is run until pipelines come into place? Or is that something that's going to be ongoing as part of the mix forever? And what's the payout period on those crude-by-rail facilities? Yes Bob I really think that crude-by-rail is going to be around for a long time in EOG's system.
I think the lag time on getting pipelines built is really something like 5 to maybe 8 years.
So it's -- the crude-by-rail is not just to stop gap measure in my opinion.
In other words -- and I see the crude-by-rail destinations perhaps changing 3 years 5 years from now such that perhaps Louisiana is not the optimum destination to deliver the crude to depending on what market conditions are at that point in time there.
So but I would guess that 5 years from now 10 years from now crude-by-rail is still a significant kind of a market uplift for EOG's crude marketing.
And did you have a second part to the question there? LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
What's the sort of payback period on a loading terminal? There at least in EOG's experience so far it's in months rather than years.
And that's all the time we have for questions.
I'll turn the call back over to Mark Papa for any further remarks.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for listening.
And remember if you haven't voted yet get out and vote.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude your conference for today.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources 2012 fourth quarter and full-year results conference call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Mark Papa.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for taking the time to join us.
I hope that everyone has seen the press release announcing fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and the EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast including those for the Eagle Ford Wolfcamp and Leonard may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to investors that appears at the bottom of our press release and Investor Relations page of our website.
With me this morning are Bill Thomas President Gary Thomas COO Llyod Helms EVP Operations Tim Driggers Vice President and CFO Maire Baldwin VP of IR and Jill Miller Manager of Engineering and Acquisitions An updated IR Presentation was posted to our website last night and we included first quarter and full-year 2013 guidance in yesterday's press release.
This morning we'll discuss topics in the following order.
I'll first review our 2012 fourth quarter and full-year net income and discretionary cash flow.
Then Bill Thomas and I will provide operational results followed by reserve replacement our macro view and hedge position and our 2013 business plan.
Tim Driggers will then discuss financials and capital structure and I'll finish with concluding remarks.
As outlined in our press release for the full year 2012 EOG reported net income $570.3 million or $2.11 per share and a net loss of $505 million or dollar $1.88 per share for the fourth quarter.
For investors who focus on non-GAAP net income to eliminate mark-to-market impacts and certain non-recurring items as outlined in the press release EOG's full-year adjusted net income was $1.54 billion or $5.67 per share and $437 million or $1.61 per share for the fourth quarter 2012.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP discretionary cash flow EOG's 2012 Bcf was $5.7 billion for the full year and $1.4 billion for the fourth quarter.
I will now address our operational results in key plays.
We had a good fourth quarter providing a capstone to a very strong full year 2012.
Our fourth quarter oil volumes essentially hit the mid-point of our guidance.
Our unit costs significantly weak guidance and partially due to our crude by rail system our domestic crude netback was at a significant premium over WTI.
For the full year our crude and condensate volumes were up 39% year-over-year NGL volumes were up 32% and total liquids increased 37%.
North American natural gas volumes were down 9% year-over-year in line with expectations.
In Trinidad volumes increased 6%.
Overall total company production grew 10% in 2012 versus 2011.
Over the past three years our organic crude and condensate growth rates have been 35% 52% and 39% respectively.
More importantly EOG's full-year non-GAAP EPS adjusted EBITDAX and discretionary cash flow grew 50% 26% and 26% respectively above 2011.
We believe we have the highest two-year growth rate in the three important financial parameters of all large cap E&amp;Ps.
We expect further growth in each of these three metrics in 2013 as well as improvements in our ROE and ROCE.
I'll note that in the fourth quarter we incurred a significant financial and natural gas reserve write-down which is very unusual for EOG.
Approximately 98% of the total financial write-down occurred in Canada as a result of low gas prices.
We have written off the remaining book value of our entire Horn River acreage along with all PDP and PUD reserves because they are on economic at current gas prices.
However the drilling we have done today holds our remaining 127 000 net acres in the Horn River with an estimated seven Tcf reserve potential until 2020 providing optionality for us.
The other major main issue of the component involved our Canadian shallow gas assets.
Even with these write-downs affecting our capital account we accomplished our goal of keeping our net debt to total cap below 30%.
I will now discuss our key oil plays starting with Eagle Ford.
The Eagle Ford continues to be our flagship oil assets and we have several important points to share with you today regarding this asset.
First as predicted on our previous call our fourth quarter Eagle Ford production declined relative to the third quarter since we slowed down our capital spend rate to stay within budget targets of previously used the analogy of a coin-operated machine and we simply didn't insert as many coins in the fourth quarter.
The good news is we are ramping up in the first quarter and in January we completed our highest IP well in Eagle Ford to-date.
100% working interest Burrow Unit #2H tested at 6 330 barrels of oil per day with 5.7 million cubic feet a day of rich natural gas.
The Eagle Ford will be the biggest driver of EOG's targeted 28% 2013 oil growth.
Second we expect the aggregate industry wide Eagle Ford oil production to surpass the Bakken within the next two years.
Remember that EOG's 569 000 net oil acres constitute the largest and highest quality oil position in the entire play.
Third through year-end 2012 we drilled and completed 630 net wells and conducted multiple spacing studies and reservoir computer simulations.
Simply put we understand the reservoir much better than we did a year ago and we reached several important conclusions.
The bottom line answer is that we are increasing our net potential recoverable reserve estimate by 600 million Boe and the development economics are still excellent.
However since some of the data supporting this conclusion may be counterintuitive to street expectations I will provide some backup details without dragging you through the (inaudible) here.
Conclusion one is that downspacing across all of our acreage has been successful and the optimum spacing is 40 acres in the Eastern half of our acreage and 65 acres in the West.
Previously our spacing was 65 to 90 acres.
Conclusion two is that with the new spacing we have a total of 5 500 net drilling locations on our acreage.
Since we have completed 630 net wells to-date there are approximately 4 900 wells yet to drill or a 12 year inventory based on our 2013 program of 400 net wells.
Conclusion three is that per well reserves will average 400 MBoe net after royalty.
This is lower than the 450 MBoe which previously provided because there is an inner well drainage component associated with this closer spacing.
A minimal amount of drainage is optimal in developing a resource play and maximizing present value.
Multiplying 5 500 net wells times 400 MBoe net after royalty equals 2.2 billion Boe net to EOG which is our new potential reserve estimate.
This translates to an approximate 8% recovery factor of the estimated 26.4 net billion Boe in place under our acreage.
Conclusion four is that we plan to drill longer laterals than previously assumed.
5 500 feet versus 4 000 feet previously.
So the average well cost is now $6 million.
Adjusted for lateral length this is equivalent to the $5.5 million cost target we previously reported.
The final conclusion is that using the new well cost and reserves and current oil and NGL prices the direct unlevered after-tax reinvestment rate of return per well is 100%.
The bottom line is that we had an estimated 600 million Boe net potential recoverable reserves with a direct ATROR is 100% and the incremental infrastructure cost is rather low.
I will now turn it over to Bill Thomas to discuss other domestic oil plays.
Thanks Mark.
Our Bakken/Three Forks drilling results during the fourth quarter were outstanding and our 2013 program should be one of our strongest in many years.
While most of industry Bakken/Three Forks results are trending downward EOG results are moving in the opposite direction.
In other words our wells are getting better.
There two reasons our well performance is trending higher and why we expect our 2013 results to be strong.
First new frac technology is improving our wells in every area of the Bakken/Three Forks.
In some cases the new frac technology using our 320 acre downspacing wells in the Parshall Core has resulted in a 30% to 70% improvement in cumulative production over the original offset wells are per foot of treated lateral basis.
For example the Wayzetta 156-3329 a 320-acre down spaced well completed in 2012 has a cumulative production of 330 Mboe in the first 340 days in is still producing at a rate of over 800 barrels of oil per day.
Please see our updated IR slides for an illustrative chart.
The second reason to expect strong results in 2013 is our drilling program is directed to the Parshall Core and Antelope Extension areas which are some of the best acreage blocks in the play.
Two Antelope Extension wells recently completed at our Hawkeye 01-2501H Three Forks well following 2 945 barrels of oil per day and the Hawkeye 01-2501H a Bakken well following 2 444 barrels of oil per day.
EOG has 75% working interest in these wells.
In addition to improving well results we have completed our first two wells on 160 acre downspacing in the Parshall field.
The Wayzetta 022-1509H and the Wayzetta 149-1509H tested at maximum rates of 1 185 and 1 265 barrels of oil per day respectively.
EOG has 68% working interest in these wells.
In 2012 we completed 28 net wells in the Parshall field and Antelope area with a successful 320 acre downspacing program.
In 2013 we plan to complete 46 net wells in these same two areas.
Our focus this year will be to further downspace to 160 acres in both the Bakken and Three Forks play intervals continue to improve frac efficiency and to optimize the recovery factor of each play.
If 160-acre down spacing proves successful this will allow us to accelerate our development program in 2014 and beyond.
The takeaway from our Bakken/Three Forks asset is that wells were getting better with continued success in down spacing.
The number of potential locations is growing and this provides us many years of high ROR investment opportunity in the play.
In the Delaware Basin we have completed our first two horizontal Wolfcamp wells in Reeves County Texas and we have significant results to announce.
The Harrison Ranch #56-1002H tested in the upper Wolfcamp at 635 barrels of oil per day with 480 barrels of NGL per day and 3.1 million cubic feet of gas per day In the Harrison Ranch #56-1002H was completed in the middle Wolfcamp at 377 barrels of oil per day with 602 barrels of NGL per day and 3.9 million cubic feet of gas per day.
With estimated gross reserves of 900 MMBoe per well and a target completed well cost of $6.5 million.
These results yield a strong 60% direct a-tax rate of return.
Our Reeves County acreage has as much has 2 000 feet of gross Wolfcamp thickness in some places and approximately 300 million barrels equivalent per section of resource potential.
We have 220 subsurface faults total cost on our 114 000 net acres and we estimate the reserve potential to be 800 million barrels of oil equivalent net to EOG.
This is another substantial addition to our growing opportunities of higher rate of return drilling inventory.
As a cautionary note because we have such a large inventory of opportunities across the company significant production growth on the Delaware Basin Wolfcamp should not be expected until the 2015 timeframe.
As noticed in previous earnings calls the results from our Leonard Shale play also in the Delaware Basin keep improving.
With improved frac technique the wells are getting better and showing a higher percentage of oil production than previously reported.
Successful downspacing and the identification of multiple play targets have substantially increased the number of potential drilling locations.
Recent wells include the Vaca 14 Fed #6H with an initial production rate of 1 290 barrels of oil per day with 255 barrels of NGL per day and 1.4 million cubic feet of gas per day and the Diamond 8 FC #5H with initial production rate of 1 162 barrels of oil per day and 183 barrels of NGL per day and one million cubic feet of gas per day.
As a result we are increasing our gross reserves from 430 in MBoe per well two 500 MBoe per well and increasing the percentage of estimated oil from 41% to 50% of total well reserves.
In addition we are increasing EOG's estimated Leonard pipe potential reserves from 65 million barrels of oil equivalent to 550 million barrels of oil equivalent net to EOG.
Our direct a-tax rate of return for the 2012 Leonard total was 55% and we see this improving in 2013.
In summary our 114 000 net acres in the Delaware basin has multiple pay zones targets in the Leonard and Wolfcamp shale plays with a combined estimated reserve potential of approximately 1.35 billion barrels of oil equivalent net to EOG.
Additionally our results from the Midland Basin Wolfcamp program continues to be on track.
The Barnett combo will make a solid with our 30% direct a-tax rate of return drilling program.
Cost efficiencies have reduced completed well cost of 3.1 million and new techniques are helping to improve oil recovery.
In 2013 we plan to drill 130 wells versus 190 in 2012.
Because we have an EOG owned processing plant methane extraction is still economic and supports our drilling program in spite of soft NGL prices.
Recent wells include the Evans Unit #1H #2H B Unit #1H with initial production rates of 573 677 and 685 barrels of oil per day respectively and recall A Unit #1H and #2H with initial production rates of 371 and 447 barrels of oil per day respectively.
EOG has 100% working interest in all of these wells.
Remaining drilling potential continues to grow for EOG in the play.
In addition to these plays we have a smaller levels of horizontal oil activity in the midcontinent Powder River basin and Southern Manitoba.
Also we continue to test new Greenfield horizontal oil ideas in North America.
Now I will turn it back to Mark.
Thanks Bill.
As you can see with our Eagle Ford reserve estimate upgrade and our success in the Delaware basin we are very long on domestic oil and combo reinvestment opportunities for many years and this affects our decision to exit the Kitimat LNG project.
We believe Kitimat is good project and with Chevron involved the project will likely get built.
However the projected Kitimat ROR did not compare favorably with returns from our domestic shale oil projects especially in light of our Eagle Ford reserve upgrade.
We weren’t desperate to monetize our Kitimat position.
We simply believe that the substantial go forward capital required by Kitimat will be best reinvested in U.S.
oil shale plays.
We hope this explains to shareholders our logic regarding the exit of this project.
In Trinidad our fourth quarter gas sales were lower than previous quarters due to downtime from planned maintenance and construction work on our offshore facilities.
We are currently in the middle of a drilling program which includes four wells off of our Osprey platform.
These wells are expected to be completed in the first half of 2013.
In Trinidad we expect natural gas production to decrease by 4% this year.
This is a function of the timing of first production from our current drilling program.
In the East Irish sea we expect our Conwy oil project to start production early in the fourth quarter.
I will now address two other EOG differentiators frac sand and oil margins.
Frac sand is easy to explain.
Our sand plants ran at essentially 100% during the fourth quarter and met our completion needs.
In the fourth quarter our U.S.
crude oil price realization was $10.52 over WTI up from $5.45 in the third quarter.
During the fourth quarter and currently our Eagle Ford crude is priced off an LLS index and essentially all of our Bakken and part of our Wolfcamp crude is being railed to our St.
James terminal.
To a large degree our domestic crude price is linked more closely to LLS than WTI.
We expect that the recent Seaway Pipeline delays will continue to provide us with marketing prices advantage.
I will now address 2012 reserve replacement and finding costs.
Because of the extraordinarily low 2012 gas prices and current SEC rules all companies with gas reserves will likely incur reserve write-downs and EOG is no exception.
This will make it very hard for analysts to compare overall 2012 reserve metrics with past years.
Because of low natural gas prices EOG has written off essentially all of our dry gas PUDs in the Horn River Marcellus Haynesville and Barnett.
Additionally our existing gas PDPs have been significantly reduced because of shale gas reductions.
The total write-off related to price you 3.2 Tcfe.
However excluding these price-related reasons our reserve replacement and finding cost metrics are excellent.
We replaced 268% of production at $12.60 Boe total finding cost.
This compares to last year's number of $18.74 per Boe.
Our ratio of liquids in our total reserves increased from 28% in 2010 to 36% in 2011 to 256% at year-end 2012.
Our domestic crude oil replacement rates from drilling was 442%.
Overall I believe EOG had an outstanding highly economic reserve replacement year and I think the removal of gas reserves from our books properly reflects the new low gas price reality.
Our reserve books are now more reflective of an oil company.
For the 25th consecutive year DeGolyer and MacNaughton has done their own independent engineering analysis with the high reserves and that overall number was within 5% of our internal estimate.
Their analysis covered 87% of our proved reserves this year.
Please see the schedules accompanying the earnings release for the calculation of reserve replacement and finding costs.
Now I will provide our views regarding macro hedging and crude by rail.
Regarding oil we think the NYMEX correctly reflects slightly 2013 WTI prices which we expect to be in the mid-90s.
We think the dangers of a global recession are slowly abating so we continue to be cautiously optimistic regarding oil.
For 2013 as a percent of total company oil production we are approximately 49% hedged at an average price of $98.85.
Now also note that we have some options that could be exercised further increasing our hedge position.
Please see the table that was included in our earnings press release for the details of our hedging contracts.
As you know our crude-by-rail system has been a profitable venture for us and is one reason why our average domestic oil price was $10.52 over WTI during the fourth quarter likely the highest in the industry for any company with similarly situated crude.
Although currently the price differentials at St.
James in Houston continues to be very advantageous as compared to Cushing it's possible that the spread between Houston and WTI may narrow late this year as additional pipeline from Cushing in the Permian come online.
We are already working on plans to use our rail system to maximize crude margins in 2014 and 2015 possibly by delivering to different destinations.
Regarding North American natural gas we continue to have a negative outlook and our drilling plans reflect this bias.
We believe that those that are counting on the low gas directed rig count to balance the market will be disappointed because of the large associated gas volumes with drilling in combo-type plays.
We have 150 million cubic feet per day hedged at $4.79 per MMBtu this year.
We are also bearish regarding 2013 ethane prices.
We think it's unlikely that ethane will rebound much this year.
It's likely that most producers including EOG will be on the cusp of ethane rejection throughout the year.
For example in January and February EOG for the first time chose to keep out of Eagle Ford ethane in the gas stream reducing our NGL production by 4 000 barrels per day and we are projecting the Eagle Ford ethane rejection throughout the year.
We have taken this into account in our lower NGL production growth estimates for the year.
Now I'll address our 2013 business plan which is congruent with what we reported in our November call.
We expect our 2013 CapEx to be between $7.0 billion to $7.2 billion a reduction of approximately $400 million from 2012.
Approximately $1.2 billion of this will be devoted to facilities gathering systems and other infrastructure.
We expect to spend very little approximately $25 million on North American dry gas drilling to hold acreage.
We have already invested the drilling capital in previous years to hold the remainder of our dry gas acreage that we want to retain.
Because of low NGL pricing we shift some funds away from the Barnett combo to the Eagle Ford and Bakken.
We are targeting 28% oil growth which on and absolute the OPD basis is the same as last year.
A tall order for a company our size.
I will note that only a very small portion of this is condensate.
Essentially all of our oil production is exactly that crude oil.
We are not particularly interested in growing the ethane portion of NGLs and expect 10% NGL growth primarily because we are assuming full year Eagle Ford ethane rejection.
It will be purely an economic decision as the year progresses.
We are not driven by NGL production growth.
Since North American gas continues to be a money loser we have zero interest in growing gas volumes and expect decreasing production for the fifth consecutive year regarding gas.
We forecast EOG natural gas production to decline 14% in the U.S.
due the past property sales and lack of gas drilling but this also could be affected by ethane rejection.
In Canada we also expect natural gas production to decrease by 24%.
In Trinidad we expect natural gas production to decrease by 4%.
This is more a function of our well downtime due to our planned regional program.
Overall we expect total company production growth of plus 4%.
However the only metrics that drive financial performance is our crude oil growth.
Additionally we plan to sell approximately $550 million worth of assets of which 85% has already closed this year so far.
The biggest component of this is our already closed Kitimat sale.
We still plan to maintain a strong balance sheet keeping the net debt to total cap ratio below 30%.
Based on the current NYMEX strip we expect this plan to generate a reduction in the net debt ratio and year-over-year growth in DCF GAAP and non-GAAP EPS and adjusted EBITDAX per share as well as healthy year-over-year improvement in ROE and ROCE.
Given that we are bearish regarding pricing for two out of three of our hydrocarbon products we think that is quite an impressive outcome.
Now I will turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Mark.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $13 million and $49.7 million for the full year.
For the fourth quarter 2012 total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.5 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition cash expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $143 million.
For the full year 2012 total cash exploration and development expenditures were $6.9 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
Cash expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $620 million.
Acquisitions for the year was $700 000.
For the year proceeds from asset sales were $1.3 billion.
It December 31 2012 total debt outstanding was $6.3 billion and the debt to total capitalization ratio was 32%.
At December 31 we had $0.9 billion of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $5.4 billion or net debt to total cap ratio of 29%.
On a GAAP basis the effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was negative 13% caused principally by impairments reported in Canada.
The deferred tax ratio was negative 157%.
The current tax provision for the fourth quarter was $152 million.
EOG's board increased the dividend on EOG's common stock for the 14th time in 14 years by 10% to an indicated annual rate of $0.75 per share.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with earnings press release for the first quarter and full year 2013.
For the first quarter and full year the effective tax rate is estimated to be 35% to 45%.
We have also provided an estimated range of the dollar amount of current taxes that we expect to record during the first quarter and for the full year.
Now I'll turn it back to Mark.
Now let me summarize.
In my opinion there are five important points to take away from this call.
First our Eagle Ford potential reserve increase gives EOG a domestic shale oil inventory unsurpassed in the industry.
As I stated earlier in the call we expect industry-wide Eagle Ford oil production to surpass the Bakken over the next two years and EOG indisputably has a premier Eagle Ford oil position in addition to our strong Bakken position.
Our 2.2 billion Boe net Eagle Ford position is not theoretical.
The production results are visible on both in EOG and industry scale.
When add in our Permian and Barnett Combo assets we have an unsurpassed inventory of proven reinvestment opportunities.
Second we have added a new Greenfield project to our portfolio with the Permian Basin and Delaware Wolfcamp plus a significant Leonard Shale upgrade.
Additionally we are excited about additional future Greenfield shale projects.
Third as predicted this is the year when we expect to reduce our net debt ratio based on current future prices.
Fourth our 10% dividend increase is a tangible signal of our growing confidence and cash flow stream.
Finally and most importantly we expect our key financial metrics such as EPS adjusted EBITDAX DCF ROE and ROCE to show positive year-over-year improvement in 2013.
Thanks for listening and now we will go to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We will take our first question from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch Thanks.
Good morning everybody and thanks for all the color Mark on the down spacing.
You talked in the past about continued adverse supply and increase your recovery rates there obviously you've done a good job on that.
Would you now say that 8% is that pretty much target achieved or do you think there is still more running room there and just curious as to what else you might do in terms of trying to look at your recovery rates and I have a follow-up please.
Yes Doug.
There is no we can't say that the 8% is the final final final answer at all.
In terms of what we are still looking at doing on there there is the continued work on non-potential additional spacing seeing improvements from frac enhancement and then the one that I think is the big hitter potential hitter out there is secondary recovery.
In the case of the Eagle Ford it would be through the gas injection and we have commenced our pilot gas injection project down there in the Eagle Ford and the reason I mentioned it on the script is that it may be as long as two years before we really have a read on the outcome of a pilot project.
I just only want to give a timeline on it but its worse our investors knowing that the pilot project is underway but it's not anything that we are going to be able to provide quarter-by-quarter feedback as to how is the pilot coming or anything like that.
But it is fair to say that we are cautiously optimistic that we will come up with a method of significantly enhancing the recovery above the 8% number.
Got it.
Thank you for the answer.
my follow-up is really you have been very disciplined in the focus of your balance sheet and so on but when you take a right turn obviously you are inflating your net debt to cap.
It makes me wonder given you have got so much resource opportunity particularly the upgrade in the Leonard is that still the right metric the 30% net debt to cap? Is that still the label in terms of pacing your development and if you could maybe share any updated thoughts on how might try to monetize or bring forward some of those non-core assets not much non-core as that Eagle Ford and Bakken through a joint venture or something? So I will now leave it there Mark.
Thank you.
The write-down cost I think I might have said about 2% net debt penalty if you will.
We ended the year at 29% in asset to write down.
We thought we would have ended the year about a 27% number on there.
So you can say we have a little tighter boundary if we stick with the 30%.
I think what we wanted to indicate if you look at the bigger picture and we have the chart in our IR slide that we released this morning that showed years of our inventory if we assume that we turf up zero additional Greenfield plays and we have already advised you we are working on additional Greenfield plays that two things show up.
One is the locus of future investments is likely to shift to the Permian basin more heavily than you would have expected before this earnings call just due to what we are seeing in the Leonard and the Delaware basin Wolfcamp.
The second thing is that as we develop into a potential free cash flow situation starting in 2014 in other words there were questions as to what we are going to do with the free cash flow.
I think that the picture is becoming clearer that where that free cash flow is likely to go is into reinvestments into both Eagle Ford and into the Permian basin area likely which will generate additional production growth high rates of production growth in the out years than we would have expected otherwise.
So we are still at the camp and I know that disagrees with your thinking.
We are still not leaning towards JVs in any of the plays that the our key plays however.
Hopefully that gives you an answer.
Yes it does.
Thanks very much Mark.
We will go next to Leo Mariani with RBC Capital.
Hey guys just a quick follow-up on the Eagle Ford.
Obviously you guys increased your potential tremendously here.
I just kind of look at some of the numbers do some quick math 569 000 net acres 5 500 locations you have identified.
That equates to about 103 acre spacing.
You guys are talking more about 50 acres spacing.
So it is fair to say that you guys have really high graded that 569 000 acres and are excluding maybe some of the untested areas in that number.
So potentially if those were to work it will drive the number higher? No it's not so much high graded.
All the acreage is good but by the time you eliminate all the subsurface areas such as faults and everything and then by the time you honor the lease line that are in there such as you can't drill wells across the lease lines then you stay certain boundaries away from lease lines.
The amount of effective acreage you can drill on is considerably less than that 569 000.
So that's really the difference between the 100 acres if that's what you were quoting there and effectively the roughly 50 acres.
It's really how much of that acreage can you really access it's not in a geologic fault or.
That's just due to lease line issues Railroad Commission limitation issues you can really access.
All right.
That's helpful.
I guess just switching gears over to the Permian you are obviously taking your Leonard Shale estimate up tremendously 65 million Boe to 500 is a pretty big job and you are kind of doing something similar in the Delaware with 800 million Boe.
Those are pretty big numbers.
It seems like the results reported you got not a tremendous number of wells.
I mean what gives you confidence in sort of putting those pretty large numbers out there? Yes.
Now that's a good question Leo.
Both of those shales are extremely rich the Leonard is in most places up to 200 million barrels of oil equivalent per section.
And then in the Wolfcamp Shale is even richer and thicker in some places just up to 300 million barrels of oil equivalent so they have a lot of resource in place and a lot to work with and each play also has multiple targets and we are working with at least two targets in the Leonard on all of our acreage and in some places we have three or four targets in the Leonard.
In the Wolfcamp we are looking at lease three targets and in some parts of our acreage also so there is a lot of potential plays zone.
When we complete the wells we're able to isolate the each individual target and we've also had really good success in the Leonard at continuing to down space.
We've tested pattern from 80 acre spacing per target and we've not seen a lot of between the wells and so that's very positive also.
Of the other things going on in all of our plays are frac technology is really increasing.
With each wells the wells are getting better because of that and we have a pretty strong history.
We have 47 wells we've completed before the Leonard so we have a lot of history on the actual production.
Then in the Wolfcamp in Delaware Basin as you know there is a lot of deep penetrations by vertical wells for different plays and deeper targets of years and so on our acreage we have over 200 well penetrations that we have gotten valves on and subsurface control for both the Leonard and Wolfcamp so we have a lot of confidence that the reserve potential is there and then we've been able to continue to reduce our cost on our drilling program so we've got a lot of confidence that these plays are really very significant plays and we are excited about.
They are able to generate very high rates of return on the drilling that we've done so far right now.
That's really helpful.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning guys.
Pretty helpful update.
Just follow-up on the downspacing comment one more time on Eagle Ford I know you different lease line issues or other issues that imply 45% of your operated [resource].
On that tighter spacing but I also presume there's some risking element on the spacing so any comments maybe on how aggressive or conservative assumption might be currently or how the risking might progress and when you might have more data to adjustments on that potential location increases which is effectively.
Yes.
If you are kind of saying can you expect on the earnings call next quarter that we are going to again raise reserve in Eagle Ford for the subsequent quarter I would say for the year 2013 you should not have any expectations that we are going to be given another number in Sand with a number locations is going up again in the Eagle Ford so now it's going to take some time to digest.
So there is certainly a possibility down the road but for the next 12 months.
I think the number that we have given you the $2.2 billion is probably where we are going to sit at.
Okay that’s helpful.
Maybe a commodity question.
Thanks for sharing your view on the commodity but any views on condensate pricing? I know we are beginning to see some price degradation as likely those imports are backed out of the Gulf region.
Do you expect any price degradation of this higher API hydrocarbon stream? Thanks.
Yes I will give you a comment regarding condensate vis-à-vis the Eagle Ford.
We have a chart in the IR slide we rolled out this morning specifically relating to the Eagle Ford.
A point that we will make is that all of our Eagle Ford production is indeed crude oil and the chart that we have shows the major producers there and relative gravity of the oil or condensate production that the producers have as compiled by IETF.
What you will see from that chart is that EOG is clearly the largest producer that EOG's production is well within the oil column in terms of gravity but many be of the rest of the producers there are actually producing condensate as opposed to oil.
But I will say is there is definitely a difficulty in marketing the condensate in the Eagle Ford area.
You just have to talk to the other producers to see what kind of prices they are actually receiving for that condensate.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
We will go next to Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
Hi good morning.
I hate to harp on the Eagle Ford downspacing but I can't resist.
If I think about 40 acre spacing you are basically picking 16 one mile laterals into a square-mile.
In the past you kind of targeted a key zone in the Eagle Ford.
Is the go forward plan more of a staggered development with one offsetting in the upper and one in the lower? The answer to that is directionally no Bob.
Its wells that are spaced the quite closely together generally in the same stratigraphic interval in the Eagle Ford as opposed to one in say the upper Eagle Ford and one in lower Eagle Ford.
That’s where you get the issue of a question that logically it would come up wait a minute you were quoting 450 MBoe per well and now you are quoting 400 MBoe per well.
There is some inner well drainage.
Bill you may add something to that here? Yes one of the things Bob that we have been able to accomplish is on our frac geometry we have been able to increase the complexity of the surplus area that were connecting with each well and we have also been able to contain the geometry on that complexity closer to the well.
So we are not fracing really long wing link kind of frac.
We are really keeping that frac really close to the well and just increasing the amount of surface close to the well.
That really is the big driver in harvesting more and more reserves.
If you can do that keep it close to the well and then you can drill more wells without significant interference.
And what do you think about the vertical height of these fractures? Are we looking at things that are kind of tall but skinny? Well we have them more aggressive with our fracs.
More sand and more frac rates and one of the advantages that the Eagle Ford has over many of the shale plays it has a very good upper and lower fracs barriers.
So yes you are right.
I mean the fracs are more contained close to the well but they are fully contacting the play the 200 or 300 feet of that play in the Eagle Ford and it is creating a lot of complexity.
So the increased frac rate does help that.
You could connect all the play.
Thanks and then a follow-up.
In the past really only two world-class shale oil plays and/or plays in North America the Bakken in the Eagle Ford.
As you spend more time in the Permian is that emerging as a credible number three or is it part of a long tail of number three? Yes.
I think it's still certainly number three and it's still a bit different number three.
Part of that is many of the Permian plays are still a bit comb.
They are not as rich in oil.
Although we are making headway on that part of it too but just the quality of the rock the kind of metrics contribution you can get them the Eagle Ford and the Bakken is exceptional compared to the kind of metrics contribution you can get from the Permian plays.
The Permian plays are very good plays and don't get us wrong.
We are not certainly down on those but they are still I think a bit distant PUD.
We'll go next to Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good morning everyone.
I want to go back to the Bakken on the question.
I think Bill Thomas said in his prepared remarks was Hawkeye wells were Three Forks wells and I am curious of two things.
One are those the best Three Forks wells you've seen yet and where in that Three Forks section are the place and do you see possibility for more than one bench in Three Forks? Yes.
Those Three Forks wells are in our Antelope area.
And in the Antelope area we do have a significant column hydrocarbon column in the Three Forks and we have all four benches that have oil in them.
That's just the well believe was drilled in the upper bench and it's certainly a good well.
I wouldn't say it's any more outstanding than some of the other wells we have completed and we are working on that three forks development and we'll be testing 160-acre spacing and we will be testing multiple benches over the next over year or so so the Three Forks particularly in Antelope where it has a lot of upside for us.
Got it.
Thank you.
And also going back to I think point maybe you glanced on a few times here.
crude-by-rail marketing.
I think Mark you've kind of made illusion in your comments that you might be looking at taking crude from the Bakken to the East Coast by rail and maybe you guys are not ready to talk about that but if you were to start that now when should we expect that crude might be delivered to the East Coast? Well actually we made a few spot deliveries in the last couple months to the East Coast just kind of (Inaudible) and where we are right now is we are really just kind of doing some strategic work as to the with a plateau of new pipelines that will be the installed during late 2013 specifically to the Gulf Coast.
What does that really mean life in crude differentials and then where would we want place or Bakken and our Eagle Ford crude in 2014 and 2015 and then what would we need to do to get in place change our destination so we are really not ready to talk about that specifically other than to provide our investors that the system we have in place and the locations where we are selling our crude today are not necessarily where we will be selling our crude in 2014 and 2015.
We'll go next to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just following up on prior question with regards to transporting crude to different destination what if any capital commitment would be required to shift the focus of your crude going from where you have it largely going now to the Gulf Coast and is it baked into your 2013 guidance or to the degree that you feel that there is the need to get more crude elsewhere would you need to raise your capital budget for that? I mean the one thing about the crude-by-rail is it's pretty flexible.
We don't think there is any capital requirement over and above what's already included in our guidance guidance.
We have already got the tanker cars which is a key thing in the track access with railroads.
The offloading terminal would be the issues at a different destinations.
We are working on some deals there that would probably end up being joint ventures with other people.
So at this stage we don’t think that there will be huge capital commitments either in 2013 or 2014 for the offloading terminals.
So the main thing is just trying to figure out what is likely to happen with these differentials.
You know Goldman has their ideas everybody has got their ideas but we are proceeding on the concept that at any point in time that we will be somewhere in the U.S.
where there is an advantageous differentials relative to other locations in the U.S.
and our job is to see if we can make sure we can get our crude to that advantageously priced location.
That’s helpful.
Then as a follow-up going back to the Delaware basin.
In the Southern Delaware basin where you reported the recent well is that production mix that you expect going forward consistent with the production mix from that well? I think Bill until mentioned just in a couple questions ago that you are making headway on production mix and I was wondering if you could add some color to what you can do to improve the oil production mix in the Delaware and the Permian? No I think it is.
I think those two wells are representative of what we will see in that particular acreage based going forward.
The Wolfcamp does get more oily as you move to the north in the New Mexico in some places.
We have not drilled a Wolfcamp well up there yet but hopefully that will be a bit more oily.
The main thing on increasing the oil out of these combo plays is certainly the narrow rocking connected to the well's surface area is a big deal.
We also have some production techniques we are working on.
I think we are not really ready to talk about those right now but we are making some headway on helping to increase the recovery of oil there but we feel really good.
I think these whole combo plays are certainly more challenging as these NGL prices have weakened but going forward I believe that we will be able to technically improve those and make those plays better in the future.
Yes just to add a little bit color to that Brian.
For example in the in the Leonard play out there where we previously had shown that the mix was about 41% although now we are saying the mix is about 50% oil a lot of it is in the design of the fracs.
We typically keep trying to close mouth about most of this stuff because we don’t want share our secrets but the concept of designing the fracs to not have fracs that are necessarily long fracs but have fracs that really increase the surface area near the wellbore more efficiently as opposed to just having long fracs that increases surface area far from the wellbore.
What that does is it really likely improves the ability for oil to flow in a radius around the wellbore and that is probably what we think is causing the increased oil yield.
So there is things you can do on frac designs that can modify things and help in these combo plays to get more oil out of them.
So I am particularly impressed with this Leonard play.
A couple reasons why they are upgraded reserves.
Number one that 55 million Boe that’s probably have a two to three year-old reserve estimate.
So it’s a very stale reserve estimate.
Number two all that acreage has been held by production.
So we haven’t had any urgent lease expirations.
So we haven’t been drilling frantically on it to hold leases.
That’s one where even though we take our time do our science we purposely kept quiet as EOG does on some of these plays until we get our Ps and Qs right but when you take 550 million Boe at 50% oil we have got something pretty good there and that's going to turn into a pretty significant oil play for us.
And that's obviously moved up considerably on our priority list for the particularly 2014-2015 kind of timeframe for capital.
This does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Papa at this time I will turn the conference back to you for additional or closing remarks.
I have no additional remarks.
Thank you for listening.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources first quarter 2013 earnings results conference call.
Just as a reminder this call is being recorded.
And at this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Mark Papa.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope that everyone has seen the press release announcing first quarter 2013 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast including those for the Delaware Basin and Eagle Ford may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release and Investor Relations page of our website.
With me this morning are Bill Thomas president; Gary Thomas chief operating officer; Tim Driggers vice president and CFO; and Maire Baldwin vice president investor relations.
An updated IR Presentation was posted to our website yesterday evening and we included second quarter and full-year 2013 guidance in yesterday's press release.
This morning we’ll discuss topics in the following order.
I’ll first discuss our 2013 first quarter net income and discretionary cash flow then Bill Thomas and I will provide operational results.
I’ll then discuss our 2014 to 2017 business plan and Tim Driggers will discuss financials and capital structure.
Finally I will cover our macro view hedge position and concluding remarks.
As outlined in our press release for the first quarter of 2013 EOG reported net income of $494.7 million or $1.82 per share.
For investors who focus on non-GAAP net income to eliminate mark-to-market impacts and certain nonrecurring items as outlined in the press release EOG’s first quarter 2013 adjusted net income was $489.9 million or $1.80 per share.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP discretionary cash flow EOG’s DCF for the first quarter was $1.7 billion.
I’ll now address our operational results in key plays.
We hit on all cylinders in the first quarter.
Our oil NGL and North American gas volumes considerably exceeded our guidance and for the same quarter in a row our unit cost beat guidance and domestic oil prices were at a significant premium to WTI.
Therefore we beat on volumes costs and net backs.
The biggest profit driver of course was oil and 100% of our oil outperformance emanated from the Eagle Ford.
Oil production from all other sectors of the company was at expected levels during the quarter.
Taken as a whole EOG’s first quarter financial performance shows the power of scale and efficiency when applied to sweet spot oil resource plays.
I’ll now discuss our key oil plays starting with Eagle Ford.
The Eagle Ford surprised us in an upside manner similar to what it did during each of the first three quarters of 2012.
You may recall that EOG grew its oil production domestically 46% last year primarily because the Eagle Ford significantly outperformed for the first nine months.
During the fourth quarter we reduced the Eagle Ford capex for budget reasons and the production scaled back accordingly.
Some people may have misread the fourth quarter as an indicator that the Eagle Ford growth rate was slowing.
During the first quarter of 2013 EOG’s U.S.
oil production increased 24 200 barrels per day over the fourth quarter of 2012 primarily due to the Eagle Ford.
As these first quarter results indicate the Eagle Ford continues to outperform our estimates as it did over the course of 2012.
The rate of change from this asset is not slowing.
During the first quarter we completed 27 monster wells in the Eagle Ford with IP rates greater than 2 500 barrels of oil per day.
Nine of these had IP rates greater than 3 500 barrels of oil per day.
Note that these rates are oil per day not barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Additionally the wells on our western acreage continue to improve as we drill longer laterals and approve our fracks.
Many of these western wells exhibit flatter declines that the prolific wells from our eastern acreage and have net reserves of 500 000 to 600 000 barrels of oil equivalent per well which is outstanding.
As we continue to develop this asset we continue to add additional drilling locations in both the east and west.
As expected our first quarter direct drilling after tax reinvestment rate of return in the Eagle Ford exceeded 100%.
To summarize the Eagle Ford this asset has the best large play economics in North America and continues to provide upside production surprises.
One additional positive occurrence we’ve noted throughout our domestic operations is that there is currently more downward rather than upward pressure on service costs.
Because our capex dollars will go farther we now plan to drill 425 net Eagle Ford wells this year.
I’ll now turn it over to Bill Thomas to discuss other domestic plays.
Thanks Mark.
I will start with our good news from the Bakken/Three Forks.
We have two important items to report for the first quarter.
First we continue to have excellent results from our 160-acre downspacing test in the Parshall Core area and second we tested the second bench in the Three Forks on our Antelope Extension acreage with outstanding results.
Two recent 160-acre downspace wells in the Parshall Core area are the Van Hook 20-107H and 127-107H which came on production for only 2 375 and 2 170 barrels of oil per day respectively.
We have 55% working interest in these wells.
Along with the new wells our previously reported 160-acre wells continue to outperform our expectations and the vast majority of the planned 53 completions in 2013 will be drilled on 160-acre spacing.
As we continue to gain confidence in downspacing results over the course of 2013 we will likely increase the level of drilling activity in 2014.
As I noted we just completed our first well in the second bench of the Three Forks in the Antelope Extension area with outstanding results.
The River View 3-3130H came online producing 3 150 barrels of oil per day.
We have 94% working interest in this well.
We also completed another Three Forks well in the first bench or our uppermost zone.
The West Clark 101-2425H had initial production of 2 205 barrels of oil per day.
We have 100% working interest in this well.
The Three Forks and Bakken results on our Antelope Extension acreage continue to look strong and we are particularly excited about the potential of the Three Forks second bench.
Early looks indicate that this target may have better potential than the first bench and the Bakken phase in this area.
We plan to test the third bench of the Three Forks in this same area next year.
In summary we are encouraged by our solid downspacing results in the Parshall Core area and excellent results from multiple Three Forks pays in the Antelope Extension area.
As reported on our February call we are applying new frack techniques in the Parshall Core and Antelope area and the new wells are outperforming the original wells that we drilled several years ago.
This has resulted in improved direct after-tax rate of return from our drilling program giving us current Bakken returns that are comparable to our Eagle Ford program.
The results continue to set us up for many years of excellent drilling in the play.
With our new techniques we believe EOG will continue to lead the industry in Bakken and Three Forks drilling results.
In the Delaware Basin we continue to have excellent results in the Leonard Play.
We have four new wells to report.
During the first quarter we completed the Vaca 24 Fed Com #2H #3H and #4H flowing 1 230 1 410 and 1 205 barrels of oil per day respectively with 140 140 and 230 barrels of NGL per day and 780 760 and 1 290 Mcf per day of natural gas respectively.
We have 90% working interest in these wells.
We also completed the Vanguard 30 State Com #1H with an initial flowing rate of 1 540 barrels of oil per day 165 barrels of NGL per day and 915 Mcf of gas per day.
We have 100% working interest in this well.
Our Leonard results remain strong and we continue to work on improving the recovery sector by identifying multiple pay targets improving frack technology and testing the optimal downspacing.
We also completed our third Delaware Wolfcamp well which confirms our positive outlook on the potential of our newest pay which we discussed in February.
We completed the Apache State 57 #1101H in the upper Wolfcamp play and turned it to sales flowing 815 barrels of oil per day plus 600 barrels of NGL per day and 3.8 Mcf of gas per day.
We have 100% working interest in this well which is located in Reeves County Texas.
Pilot logs from this well confirmed excellent Wolfcamp pay on our acreage and a microseismic survey performed on our second completion the Harrison 56-1001H provides further confirmation of good frack geometry.
Every piece of data we receive on the Delaware Wolfcamp is most encouraging.
This particular play has excellent shale rock properties and when combined with the massive amount of resource in place on our sweet spot acreage has the characteristics of a high-quality horizontal resource play.
In this new play we’ve identified over 1 100 drilling locations with EURs of 700 000 barrels of oil equivalent net per well.
On our 114 000 net acreage in the play we’ve estimated 800 million barrels of oil equivalent of net potential reserves.
We’ve now drilled three horizontal wells to date and recently have over 200 penetrations in data points from previously drilled vertical wells.
In summary the Delaware Basin and Wolfcamp plays have a combined reserve potential of 1.35 billion barrels of oil equivalent net to EOG using a conservative 2-3% recovery factor.
We hope to improve this over time.
Regarding the Midland Basin Wolfcamp play during the first quarter we continued to make steady progress on optimizing our frack technology.
This is an important process to help determine the optimal well spacing and to increase the recovery factor of the play.
Recent pattern completions include the Munson 105H 106H and 107H flowing 965 970 and 1 290 barrels of oil per day plus 55 60 and 100 barrels of NGL per day and 400 430 and 730 Mcf of gas per day respectively from the middle zone of the Wolfcamp.
We have 85% working interest in the Munson wells.
Other new wells are the University 40D #701H and 702H that began producing at 705 and 660 barrels of oil per day plus 95 and 75 barrels of NGL per day and 685 and 550 Mcf of gas per day respectively.
We have 80% working interest in these wells which are also producing from the middle zone.
The Midland Basin Wolfcamp was a solid play but it is technically more challenging than our Delaware Basin plays.
It is taking more time to establish optimal frack techniques and spacing but we are making progress and will update our reserve potential in this play as we learn more in the future.
In our Barnett Combo play a combination of good well results and lower well costs netted solid returns during the first quarter.
This is an area where we’ve accomplished excellent drilling and completion performance and seen reductions in service costs.
We are seeing a 10-15% decrease in well costs for the play as compared to last year.
Examples of excellent wells are the [Reed B] unit #1H and #2H which came online flowing 605 and 515 barrels of oil per day with 65 and 60 barrels per day of NGLs and 445 and 390 Mcf per day of gas respectively.
We have 100% working interest in these wells.
We have reduced our Barnett Combo activity to three rigs but drilling times and well costs continue to improve and we are still on track to drill approximately 130 net wells in 2013.
We are also continuing to look for new greenfield North American liquid plays.
We believe we have the technical advantage in identifying the best rock and capturing the best acreage.
Our positions in the Bakken and Eagle Ford confirm this.
Now I’ll turn it back to Mark.
Thanks Bill.
I’ll briefly discuss our plays outside North America.
In Trinidad our first quarter production was as projected.
We’re in the midst of a drilling program off our Osprey platform that will help to maintain flat over production in 2013 and 2014.
In the East Irish Sea the startup of our Conwy oil project has been delayed until early 2014.
For this reason we’re keeping our full year total company oil growth target at 28% even though we significantly outperformed in the first quarter.
We have however increased our U.S.
oil growth estimate by 4% this year due to our Eagle Ford strength.
In addition to having captured sweet spot positions in crude oil resource plays another EOG differentiator is our domestic crude oil realizations in margins.
During the quarter and currently our Eagle Ford crude is priced off an LOS index as is our Bakken and part of our Permian crew which is being railed to our St.
James terminal.
The majority of our domestic crude volumes are linked to LOS rather than WTI prices.
This access to premium markets resulted in a $12.23 per barrel premium over WTI during the first quarter for EOG’s U.S.
crude oil volumes.
We expect to achieve a $9.25 premium in the second quarter using the midpoint of yesterday’s guidance.
Now I’ll discuss some longer term implications emanating from our asset base.
On this call we’ve described our three main domestic oil assets in the Eagle Ford Bakken and Delaware Basin.
We feel the addition of the Delaware Basin Leonard and Wolfcamp assets that we announced in February moves EOG past a key threshold and allows us to talk with confidence about what EOG will look like five years out.
Today we have sufficient confidence in our asset base to provide directional guidance for 2014 through 2017 with the caveat that WT oil prices remain at or above $85.
Under that assumption we believe EOG will continue to have the highest oil growth rates during 2013 to 2017 of any large cap independent similar to our performance of the past three years.
We expect our 2014 to 2017 NGL growth to be at or near top tier.
Our 2014 to 2017 North American gas production should reverse its negative trend and begin to increase even though we drill very few dry gas wells.
This is the result of our combo play activity and associated natural gas production.
Outside of North America EOG produces natural gas in Trinidad and China.
We expect that production to be essentially flat during the 2014 to 2017 timeframe.
When you combine this mix you’ll likely calculate strong overall total company production growth underpinned by very strong high-margin oil growth.
The conclusion from this overview is that EOG is likely to exhibit one of the highest overall production growth rates combined with the single-highest oil growth rate of the large caps for at least the 2014 to 2017 period.
And all the growth is sourced domestically.
This should yield significant net income and overall free cash flow even at a flat $85 WTI oil price.
When considered on a debt-adjusted basis the growth rate is even higher.
EOG can accomplish this production net income and cash flow growth while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
I’ll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Mark.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $10 million.
For the first quarter of 2013 total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.6 million excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $92 million.
As compared to the first quarter of 2012 total cash expenditures decreased by $315 million.
There were no acquisitions during the quarter.
Through May 1 we have closed on asset sales of approximately $500 million.
At the end of March 2013 total debt outstanding was $6.3 billion and the debt to total capitalization ratio was 31%.
At March 31 we had $1.1 billion of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $5.2 billion or net debt to total cap ratio of 27%.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter was 35% and the deferred tax ratio was 75%.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with the earnings press release for the second quarter and for full year 2013.
For the second quarter the effective tax rate is estimated to be 30-40%.
For the full year the effective tax rate is estimated to be 35% to 45%.
We’ve also provided an estimated range of the dollar amount of current taxes that we expect to record during the second quarter and for the full year.
Now I’ll turn it back to Mark.
Thanks Tim.
Now I’ll provide our views regarding the macro environment hedging and crude by rail.
Regarding oil we believe full year WTI prices will average in the low 90s similar to the past two years.
However as our total company cash flow becomes more dependent on oil we have changed our oil hedging philosophy such that we plan to target an approximate 50% hedge position for the full year.
For the second half of this year we had 93 000 barrels of oil a day hedged at $98.44.
Currently we have 42 000 barrels of oil a day hedged for the first half of 2014 at $95.86.
These numbers exclude options that are exercisable by our counterparties.
Regarding North American gas we recently added some May through October 2013 and some full year 2014 hedges.
We don’t have a target hedge percentage and have viewed the April gas price upsurge as a hedge opportunity.
Our crude by rail continues to be a highly profitable venture and although the WTI-LOS differential has recently contracted from $20 to $11 a barrel it’s still very advantageous for us to move oil by rail from the Bakken Permian and Barnett combo to St.
James.
Additionally we have contracted capacity on a Houston Tahoma pipeline later in the year and will have the flexibility to move our Eagle Ford oil east from Houston to refineries in Louisiana which are priced off the LOS index.
I’ll now briefly address our 2013 business plan which is consistent with what we outlined on our February call.
We still expect our total capex to be between $7.0 and $7.2 billion and proceeds from dispositions to be approximately $550 million.
Our full year production growth targets are unchanged at this time and we slightly reduced our full year LOE and DD&amp;A estimate.
Even though natural gas prices have strengthened we don’t intend to drill any additional dry gas wells this year.
Now let me conclude.
There are eight important takeaways from this call.
First as evident by our results EOG is firing on all cylinders: volumes unit costs price realizations and returns.
Second our first quarter reinvestment rate of return on our drilling capital program was the highest in the company’s history led by the Eagle Ford and North Dakota Bakken investments.
Third the Eagle Ford is leading the pack and drove our first quarter oil outperformance.
Fourth our first quarter Bakken drilling rate of return rivaled our outstanding Eagle Ford triple-digit returns and our initial test of the second bench of the Three Forks floated 3 150 barrels of oil per day.
Our overall North Dakota results are much better than the industry average because we are drilling 160-acre downspace wells in the best acreage in the entire play.
Fifth our recent Delaware Basin Leonard performance has been excellent and we’ll ramp up this play in 2014.
Additionally our third Delaware Basin horizontal Wolfcamp test confirms this area as our third key asset in our portfolio.
Sixth we’re seeing downward cost pressure across the board.
Seventh I’ve walked you through our five-year outlook.
We have all the assets in place to achieve best-in-class organic high rate of return domestic crude oil and NGL growth and our North American natural gas production should flatten out next year and then begin to increase.
Beginning in 2014 provided WTI oil prices stay at current levels we expect to have strong total company production growth and begin to generate free cash flow.
And finally our succession plan is consistent with what we previously reported.
I will step down as CEO on July 1 of this year.
Bill Thomas will succeed me at that time as CEO.
I will remain as executive chairman until Bill replaces me when I retire on December 31 with the title of chairman and CEO.
Thanks for listening and now we’ll go to Q&amp;A.
[Operator instructions.]  We’ll take our first question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
Question on your second bench well in the Three Forks.
It looked like a very strong well.
I think you guys drilled out in the Antelope Extension area.
Do you guys think that the second bench can be prevalent across a lot more of your acreages trying to get a sense of your geologic mapping and where you think that might exist on your acreage.
We certainly think it’s prospective across our Antelope Ridge area.
We have enough logs and data there to kind of verify that.
On the remainder of our acreage like in the core area it may be prospective.
We’re taking additional looks at that as we speak.
But it’s not as clear there as it is in Antelope.
But you know we’re really excited about the second bench and we’re going to be testing another second bench well down the road and then I think next year we’ve got plans for drilling down in a third bench.
So we’re very excited about the Three Forks potential there at Antelope.
And then I guess in terms of gas production you guys said you weren’t drilling any more dry gas wells this year but you did say that you’d probably see gas production flat in North America to slightly up next year.
Would you anticipate any dry gas drilling next year?  Or is that going to be exclusively from associated gas? The outlook through 2017 that we gave you we generally are assuming no dry gas drilling or essentially no dry gas drilling throughout 2017 in the outlook we provided.
And I guess you guys obviously didn’t quantify overall growth.
Should we think of the EOG as firmly being in double digit growth of the company over the next four years? We don’t want to give specific numbers but I’d just say that some of the numbers that might have been penciled in previously for overall growth are probably too low and I think we’ll have surprising overall growth during the next four or five years really.
The 4% growth that we’re projecting this year is not what you should expect in the 2014 to 2017 period.
Next we’ll hear from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My question is on your guidance.
Obviously the costs have been pretty strong here relative to what you were expecting in the first quarter.
But you’re guiding us higher again for the back end of the year on a whole number of levels.
What’s different?  Why should costs move back up again given the level of success that you’re having?  And are you just being conservative?  Or should we be thinking about Q1 as the more repeatable? In terms of the budget expenditures?  Capex? More the unit costs.
The LOE and the transportation and the exploration guidance and so on.
We’re a little bit surprised by how well we came in on our overall costs for the first quarter so we’re a little bit conservative in the guidance that we’ve given for the remainder of this year although we do think it will be a little bit back end loaded.
So I’d say on the unit costs there is a possibility we may beat the full year guidance on some of those but we’re going to wait another quarter to see how repeatable this first quarter really is.
And that would apply to the other guidance actions as well?  The impairment charges and the exploration charges you’ve guided that back up as well.
[unintelligible] a big ticket item.
Is there any reason why that should be trending higher? We’ll just be looking at it at the end of the second quarter.
We just want to see what the trend is.
But right now we just want to be fairly conservative.
On the production side though we’re not signaling that we may beat on production on there at that time so we would guide you to the full year production of the 28% oil growth and not higher than that at this time.
There may be some room on some of the costs and we’ll reevaluate that at the end of the second quarter.
Next we’ll hear from Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Sounds like a lot of good news coming out of the Bakken.
My question is what’s your feeling on the Bakken differential as it stands now understanding that [unintelligible] has come down a little bit.
Just want a little color from you.
It’s hard for us to guess on these differentials kind of where they’re going.
I’d be hard press to really hazard a specific guess.
We do believe that the differential Gulf Coast to WTI is likely to stay more compressed than it was in the first quarter.
We don’t see that ballooning out.
But where the Bakken is relative to the WTI or the Gulf Coast I can’t give you any specific guidance on that that would be very specific unfortunately.
And how about on natural gas?  I know you guys put on some hedges so your general view probably still has not changed? I guess our view at this point is we don’t see any return to the high twos or low threes for gas in terms of 2013 or 2014 or 2015.
We think we’re now in a timeframe in 2013 2014 and 2015 we’re somewhere in the range of likely $4-5 gas prices.
So we have become slightly more bullish than in the past but we certainly are not in hyper-bullish mode.
Next we’ll hear from Joe Magner with Macquarie.
Just curious how we should think about the guidance through 2017.
I know you don’t want to get into specifics but should we expect to see a rolling update on what you’re going to guide to on an annual basis?  Or will there be more framework to it if you have more visibility on future commodity price? We will probably continue just to give an annual update.
It’s been our experience that companies that try and give a three- to five-year guidance they almost immediately miss their guidance the first or second year and so we’re not likely to do that.
So it will be likely that in February we’ll give full year 2014 guidance and we might give a little more framework around the 2015 to 2017 guidance but don’t look for us to provide firm numbers for more than one year out as we go forward.
And along those lines how should we start to think about capex required to support that growth?  To date you’ve been pretty disciplined with the balance sheet but if you have continued confidence in the quality of your assets will your treatment of the balance sheet change or will this growth be supported by internally generated cash flow? I’ll just say that we ran a case at a flat WTI oil price of $85 and we believe that over the aggregate period of 2014 to 2017 we will generate some significant free cash flow during that period at a flat $85 WTI oil price.
So during that entire period we’ll be guided by the same maximum debt limit of no higher than 30% net debt to total cap and we think that we should be in a free cash mode during this period certainly at current oil prices.
If you just take flat oil prices current levels through 2017 we will be at significant free cash flow [unintelligible] based on our internal growth projections.
Next we’ll hear from Pearce Hammond of Simmons &amp; Company.
In a prior forecast you had put out some slides where you talked about total U.S.
oil production growing by like 2 million barrels a day by 2015? We still are of the belief that total U.S.
oil production growth that happened in 2012 was perhaps the peak that is going to occur.
That production growth was about 800 000 barrels of oil a day and we expect that the total growth in 2013 to be less than that and 2014 to be less than that.
We’re already seeing a lesser rate of growth in the Bakken.
The Eagle Ford of course is still steaming ahead at a quite high rate of growth.
And so we believe that we’re not going to see stupendous overall U.S.
growth rates as we go forward.
We think there’s only really two major driving forces of U.S.
oil growth: Bakken and Eagle Ford.
Eagle Ford is going to surpass the Bakken likely this year as the biggest oil growth rate.
Bakken is slowing down.
Permian is really not on that fast of a track.
And then there’s what I would classify as all others.
And the all others are not growing at a very fast pace at all.
So we’re not as concerned as others that U.S.
oil growth is going to flood the total market and ruin global oil prices.
And then you my follow up in the earnings release related to the Eagle Ford you stated that if crude oil prices remain at or above current levels that you’ll further augment your drilling program in 2014.
How many rigs do you think that augmentation might imply? In terms of rigs not all that many rigs.
I mean to give you an idea of rigs in the first quarter of ’12 we ran up to 76 rigs.
In the first quarter of ’13 we ran 52 rigs.
Now some of those rigs last year were drilling some gas wells.
This year we weren’t drilling hardly any gas wells.
But what we’re seeing is the rig count’s probably not going to go up that much even if we ramp up the number of wells we plan to drill because we continue to drill at a faster pace in days per well.
So what I would say is if the constant oil price continues to occur in 2014 we’ll probably ramp up activity in the Eagle Ford the Bakken and the Permian from the activity level that we expect to achieve in 2013.
And we expect we can do that and still have significant free cash flow in 2014.
Next we’ll hear from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Just a clarification.
With respect to the increased activity in both the Bakken and the Eagle Ford in ’14 in current prices does current prices mean $95?  Or are we talking more the flat $85 that you referenced in your five-year plan? The current prices I was just referring to would be the $94-95.
And then the second question I had on those Karnes County well I think the general impression has been that that has been maybe a tier below the fabulous acreage you have up there in Gonzalez County.
But with the results that you turned in here it seems like the rate of change of the results there the second derivative of what you’re getting there is better.
And I’m curious has your view evolved on the relative prospectivity of these two areas?  And does Karnes have a chance to be as good as Gonzalez? As an overview I’d say Karnes is still not as good as Gonzalez.
But on the rate of change while we’re continuing to make better wells given equal acreage the rate of change is still quite positive in the Eagle Ford.
In other words if you take essentially any piece of our acreage whether it’s in the west the middle or the east are we making better wells today than we were a year ago than we were two years ago or three years ago?  The answer is unequivocally yes.
So that’s why you’re seeing the fact that we continue to beat our production targets relating to the Eagle Ford.
Because we project and say okay based on what we think the productivity is going to be based on drilling X wells for the rest of this year we project a number and give it to you as our 8-K estimate.
And then what we find out is gee whiz the productivity of those wells is better than projected based on typically our completion efficiency.
So I can’t overestimate the quality of this Eagle Ford asset.
And I think a lot of people when we purposely restricted the money in the fourth quarter to the Eagle Ford and we had clearly signaled this to the investment community before we did it we said we’re going to slow down activity in the fourth quarter to the Eagle Ford because of budget constraints and then production slowed down.
I think a lot of people misread the production slowdown in our fourth quarter and felt that the Eagle Ford rate of change had inflected downwards and that was clearly not the case.
It was just that the capital the coin operated machine received less coins in the fourth quarter.
So we upped the coinage in the first quarter and you see the results.
So that’s why we’re so optimistic not only of what we can do this year but what we can do in the period 2014 through 2017.
Next we’ll hear from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
I wanted to elaborate a little bit more on that rate of change topic.
I guess going to your slides on 21 saw a real noticeable improvement in the 30-day averages and just wondering if you can put this in context given your shift towards tighter spacing patterns and the move out west.
So I was just wondering if you could put that into context.
Yeah that’s a new slide we put in there and glad you caught that.
It’s pretty impressive really as to what we’re seeing on these averages.
And this is on our IR slides we posted on our website this morning.
And you can see a steady increase if anyone wants to go take a look at that.
We’ve got a chart there that shows the 30-day production average and then on the right hand side of that chart it shows the number of drilling days versus time and you can see improvement in there.
Generally the 30-day average is a function of the completion efficacy of what we’re doing and it also could be a function of the location of the wells.
And so on the completion efficacy I’d say that we do have a bit of a secret sauce in our fracks that we really aren’t going to talk much about but we are doing some things differently than other operators down there.
This has been a change that we’ve fully implemented really in just the last six months.
And we are seeing clearly differentiating results from that and at this point we’ll just call it our own secret sauce.
And the follow up is if this continues do you see some upward momentum perhaps to your EUR that you updated last quarter? Yeah but we won’t update that.
I wouldn’t look at that EUR.
First point is at the current 400 MBOE net after royalty and our current well costs we are achieving greater than 100% after-tax direct reinvestment rates of return.
So that for a large hydrocarbon play I would say is likely the absolute best rate of return anyone’s achieving clearly in North America perhaps the world except for the NOCs.
And so it’s very adequate returns certainly more than adequate.
And we will look maybe annually at whether we could bump that reserve estimate but that’s not something we’re going to adjust on a quarterly basis.
Next we’ll hear from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
In the fourth quarter you slowed activity in the Eagle Ford to stay within your capex budget.
But when we see how strongly you grew production during the first quarter wanted to see if there are any operational benefits to an end of year slowdown and whether for financial or operational reasons you’re expecting any slowdown in activity and completions this year.
Well at this juncture no we’re not anticipating any year-end slowdown as we would see it.
There probably was kind of a catch your breath kind of advantage particularly in the Eagle Ford last year in the fourth quarter and we were running so hard and so fast that there probably was a bit of an advantage to just slowing down for a period.
But I would say at this point it would be best to project that we would not slow down at this point.
In terms of our capex burn rate if you check the numbers we consumed almost exactly 25% of our capex in the first quarter.
So right now our burn rate is pretty much if we continue to burn at that rate we’ll be exactly on our budget plan.
So right now that’s pretty much our plan.
And much has been made so far here on the call about the end of the period of negative free cash flow and the forthcoming positive free cash flow.
In your expectations for superior growth as well as free cash flow assuming $85 a barrel what’s your plan on what to do with that free cash flow?  Would you have even more superior growth by reinvesting back in the ground to further accelerate activity?  Would you more meaningfully reduce your debt or debt to tangible capital below the 30-35%?  Or would you more actively return cash to shareholders?  And how soon could we see some manifestation of that? That’s a high-class problem to have.
At this juncture I would say that our priorities would likely be to establish some kind of meaningful dividend increase whether it’s a percent per year or something linked perhaps to cash flow increases or something like that.
The second thing would be we’d potentially might set some sort of floor as to what would be the minimum net debt to cap debt leverage that we think would be reasonable for an E&amp;P company.
And we wouldn’t just plan to pay our debt down below a certain minimum level.
We’re not aiming to be a debt-free company or anything like that.
And the third thing that would be likely once we hit that minimum debt level would be to look at ramping up the capex.
We have so many projects at these kind of reinvestment rates of return ramping up the capex further might be the proper path.
But that would be an evolutionary type decision.
Obviously on a year-to-year basis it would depend on the price of hydrocarbons.
But the key takeaway I think that we want to convey to you at this point is that during this forthcoming four-year period that the company would be able to achieve even at a flat $85 WTI oil price twin goals: a very robust production growth particularly oil growth as well as significant free cash flow.
And so that’s pretty important to note.
I’m not sure there’s many companies at a flat $85 oil price that would be able to say they could achieve those dual objectives.
Next we’ll hear from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
In the Bakken can you just talk about the downspace wells how much production historically you have and what those wells are doing as you get up to 60 and 90 days?  Do you have any color there? We’ve got 15 or so wells that are in various phases of production that we’ve completed as downspace wells.
And certainly as we talked about earlier the original wells which were more like 320-acre spaced wells they certainly with the improved frack techniques that we use they’re certainly on a per-foot of lateral basis when you normalize that they’re outperforming our older wells.
And it’s still really early on the tighter spacing wells.
They’re equivalent really of 160-acrew wells.
And of course these are long laterals and the per-acres per well is variable.
But they’re tighter spacing.
We don’t have a lot of production history on those.
We put the first ones online early in the first quarter and so we’ve only got maybe 90 days of production on those.
And we’re really watching that carefully because we certainly want before we do a lot of accelerated drilling we want to be careful and make sure that we’re adding [MPV] and we’re not overdrilling or sharing production between wells.
So we’re watching that and our plan is to drill the remainder of the wills this year.
It’s about 53 wells we’re going to complete this year.
Most of those will be the 160-acre type downspace wells.
And so it’s really kind of a pilot program and we’re going to watch the production throughout the year.
And it usually takes like 6 to 9 months to kind of verify that you’re doing things correctly.
So we’re kind of in the first part of that process and so hopefully by the end of the year we’ll know a whole lot more about that and be able to give you more color on that.
But certainly we think the improved frack techniques certainly at this point we’re very positive about it.
We’re contacting more rock and we’re really enhancing the recovery factor of the Bakken on our core acres.
So it’s going well right now.
And then as a follow up to that if I start to think about the industry obviously whether you believe the land grab or not is over it seems like it’s moving much more toward a manufacturing type phase as opposed to an exploration phase.
And I wanted to see what you think about that concept and what North America looks like three years down the road just lower 48 however you want to run with that.
I just wanted to throw that out there and see if you had any comments on that.
Certainly as far as the oil plays as we talked about and I think we’re not really expecting to get another Eagle Ford or Bakken resource play of that quality and that size all tied together.
So we have a decent list of new greenfield plays we’re working on on the oil side.
But the quality of rock for oil plays and shales is really limited.
And then the thermal maturity of the oil the window there of the right maturity of the oil is really critical too.
So the sweet spots are really small and so what I think you’re going to be seeing is and I think you’re correct on this you’re not going to be seeing people announcing billion barrel new oil play discoveries.
But hopefully we’ll be able to announce some success in some plays that would be maybe in the 50-100 million barrels or maybe even bigger than that which is a significant value in North America.
So we’re not going to lose our exploration edge.
The industry as a whole I think is certainly at a point right now where they really have a lot of acreage [leased] and people are testing a lot of ideas and plays.
I think as we’ve talked about all along you’re seeing the cream of the crop of the plays rise to the top which are certainly the Bakken and the Eagle Ford.
And we feel very fortunate that we have very large substantial positions in those and we hope to add a few more smaller ones as we go along.
I’ll just add one thing to that.
There are some combo plays that we hope to uncover that could be substantially larger in terms of oil content that I think are yet to be found and we’re still chasing those.
So there are still some substantial plays I think that will be uncovered that may be similar to what we’re talking about out there in the Delaware Basin.
Next question will come from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
In the core of the Bakken what kind of Three Forks drilling have you done so far?  And is it possible that the Three Forks two or three could be prospective without the Three Forks one being prospective? In the core I believe we’ve only completed like maybe three or four wells in the Three Forks there and those I believe are the first bench.
And so I think what we’re noticing industry wide that there’s a bit more success on the Three Forks than what maybe we had anticipated a few years ago.
And so we’re really taking a second look at all that.
And we’ll just have to see how that goes as we move on down the road.
I’m sure that we’ll be analyzing that and thinking about maybe drilling on Three Forks our core acreage as we go forward.
And then in the Midland Basin in the Wolfcamp you indicated that it’s more technically challenging than the Delaware Basin.
Could you talk about in what way it’s more technically challenging and what would you expect to be the outcome after you do your analysis?  And are your wells overall there in line with your 430 000 BOE type curve or EUR estimate? The answer to the first question is yeah we haven’t changed our EUR per well.
It’s still a growth 430 MBOE per well.
The challenge there is just kind of twofold.
Number one is the rock quality in the Midland Basin is not quite as strong as what we see in the Wolfcamp and the Leonard plays in the Delaware Basin.
And then the second thing is that frack containment is more of an issue in the Midland Basin.
As you know they have at least in the areas we’re working we have three potential [pay zones] and so you drill a lateral in one of the pay zones and you frack a well and it has a tendency to grow up into the other pay zone.
And then also laterally horizontally away from the well bores we’re seeing that you have the interference between wells there if you’re not careful.
But I would say this we’re optimistic that we’ll be able to solve those issues and to be able to contain the frack better vertically and horizontally.
And that’s what it’s going to take to add the multiple pays to the play multiple pay targets and also to decrease the spacing size.
So we’re working diligently on that but it’s certainly more challenging than the plays in the Delaware Basin.
And that is all the time that we do have for questions today.
Mr.
Papa I’ll turn things over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
I have no additional remarks.
Thanks everyone for listening in.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I’d like to turn the call over to the Executive Chairman of the Board Mr.
Mark Papa.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing second quarter 2013 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG’s SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release and Investor Relations page of our website.
With me this morning are Bill Thomas President and CEO; Gary Thomas COO; W.
Helms Executive VP Exploration and Production; Tim Driggers Vice President and CFO; and Maire Baldwin Vice President Investor Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website yesterday evening and we included third quarter and full-year guidance in yesterday’s press release.
This morning we’ll discuss topics in the following order.
I’ll first discuss second quarter net income and discretionary cash flow then Bill Thomas will review operational results.
Tim Driggers will then discuss financials and capital structure.
Finally I’ll cover our macro view hedge position and concluding remarks.
As outlined in our press release for the second quarter 2013 EOG reported net income of $659.7 million or $2.42 per share.
For investors who focus on non-GAAP net income to eliminate mark-to-market impacts and certain non-recurring items as outlined in the press release EOG’s second quarter 2013 adjusted net income was $573.8 million or $2.10 per share.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP discretionary cash flow EOG’s DCF for the second quarter was $1.9 billion.
Similar to the first quarter EOG continue to hit on all cylinders in the second quarter.
Our oil volumes considerably exceeded guidance our unit cost beat guidance and EOG’s realized domestic oil prices were at a significant premium to WTI.
As a result of our exceptional performance in the first half of the year we’ve raised our full-year oil growth estimate from 28% to 35% reflecting total organic growth of 55 000 barrels of oil per-day year-over-year.
We’ve increased our NGL growth estimate from 10% to 14% and we’ve increased our total company overall growth target from 4% to 7.5%.
The oil growth target increase is emanating primarily from the Eagle Ford with contributions from the Bakken and Delaware Basin.
The impact of our domestic onshore oil portfolio in the high rate of return Eagle Ford Bakken and Leonard is showing up in the bottom line as demonstrated by our first and second quarter EPS results which will show up as a stronger full-year ROEs and ROCs.
On the previous earnings call we outlined our five-year plan where we expect to continue to achieve the highest and most profitable oil growth rate of any large cap independent through 2017 and this quarter’s results or another building block in that plan.
I’ll now turn it over to Bill Thomas to discuss specific operational results.
Before I do I want to congratulate Bill on this new role as CEO.
He has been with the Company for over 34 years and knows the assets inside and out.
This makes him well qualified to deliver on a five-year plan and guide the Company for many years beyond that.
Thanks Mark.
I will start with our second quarter 2013 Eagle Ford results.
EOG’s Eagle Ford acreage continues to prove that it’s the premier horizontal oil position in North America.
During the second quarter we consistently completed strong growth in both the Eastern and Western portions of our acreage that drove our record production results.
In addition drilling and completion improvements continue to drive down oil costs.
As a result we’ve the lower the average completed well costs in the Eagle Ford from 6 million to 5.5 million and increased the number of wells we plan to drill this year from 425 to 440.
Fine tuning this engine with continuous cost reduction and improved well productivity makes EOG’s Eagle Ford acreage the strongest oil growth and capital return machine in North America.
And the best part is we have a 12-year drilling inventory on this play that will provide many years of oil growth and superior capital returns.
In our Western acreage we’ve drilled a large number of wells allowing us to fine tune our completion technology.
We are now making oils with rate of return that are approaching wells drilled in the Eastern part of our acreage.
In La Salle County The Keller number 1H and 2H had initial daily production rates of 1 855 barrels of oil and 2 050 barrels of oil with 590 and 400 Mcf per day of rich gas respectively.
The Smart number 1H and 2H began production at 1 495 and 2 030 barrels of oil per day with 480 and 610 Mcf per day of rich gas respectively.
In McMullen County the Naylor Jones B number 1H started production with 1 830 barrels of oil per day and 1 920 Mcf per day of rich gas.
EOG has 100% working interest in each of these wells.
To show how wells have improved on our Western acreage the updated IR presentation includes slides that show well IPs marching upward as a result of better frac techniques and longer laterals.
As an example slide number 21 shows that the Keller and Smart Unit wells drilled in 2013 are 30% better than offset wells drilled in 2012.
In addition to making better wells we are driving down well cost through efficiencies.
Slide number 22 shows spud to TD drilling days continued to drop with wells in 2013 down to less than 10 days.
As a result our 2013 well cost has decreased by $1 million per well in certain areas from 2012 levels.
With the combination of improved well productivity and cost reduction our Western drilling activity now has an average direct a-tax rate of return in the 100% range on par with many of the wells in the East.
In the East we again set a new record with the completion of the Burrow Unit number 5H which had an initial production rate of 7 515 barrels of oil per day and 6 880 Mcf per day of rich gas.
Consistently the number one driver for better wells in all areas is improved by techniques and that's the case for the Burrow 5H.
Also in the East we completed the Wilde Trust number 1H number 2H and number 3H wells with initial rates of 5 475 6 520 and 5 525 barrels of oil per day with 7 040 5 690 and 6 200 Mcf per day of rich gas respectively.
We have 100% working interest in each of these wells.
The takeaways from our second quarter Eagle Ford results are; number one EOG continues to make significant improvements in well productivity and cost reductions in both the Eastern and Western portions of our acreage.
Number two EOG's drilling results from a large number of wells in our Western acreage confirms that the Western part of the play can deliver high direct capital rates of return and strong production growth.
Number three our large number of high quality drilling locations in the Eagle Ford gives EOG the platform to have superior oil growth for many years to come.
In the Bakken Core our 160-acre or four wells per unit down spacing program in the Parshall field and Mountrail County North Dakota is yielding impressive results.
Recent completions include the Parshall 22-3032H and 25-3032H with initial production rates at 2 120 and 2 685 barrels of oil per day with 505 and 945 Mcf of gas per day respectively.
We also completed the Van Hook 29-1113H and 30-1113H producing 2 390 and 2 295 barrels of oil per day with 2.0 and 1.1 million cubic feet of gas per day respectively.
EOG has a 62% working interest in the Parshall wells and a 78% working interest in the Van Hook wells.
We are very pleased with year-to-date down spacing results that show excellent progress in both well productivity and cost reduction.
We've added some new slides in our IR presentation showing these operational improvements.
There is a slide showing EOG's improved well productivity in the Core and Antelope areas over time.
This improvement is a result of drilling longer laterals and using better frac techniques.
The average EUR from our 2013 program is 940 mboe per well growth more than a 180% improvement over wells we were drilling only two years ago.
To control costs at lateral length's increase we've been able to reduce 2013 drilling plans on an average 10 000 foot lateral to 16.9 days which is a 30% decrease compared to 2012 levels.
As a result of better wells with lower costs our year-to-date 2013 Bakken program is generating direct a-tax rates of returns of 100%.
As we have said previously the majority of the 53 net wells drilled this year will be down spaced with the goal of maximizing the net present value of this large EOG asset.
Based on further evaluation of Three Forks potential on our acreage and the success of our Bakken down spacing program we have increased our total Bakken/Three Forks drilling inventory from 7 to 12 years.
The takeaway is our Bakken/Three Forks asset is another segment of EOG's crude oil inventory that will provide high margin production growth for many years to come.
In the Delaware Basin we continued to see improved results from both our Leonard and Wolfcamp plays.
During the second quarter we completed three outstanding wells in the Leonard.
And Lea County New Mexico the Diamond 31 Fed Com number 2H number 3H and number 4H began producing at 1 780 1 905 and 1 530 barrels of oil per day plus 215 165 and 150 barrels of NGL per day and 1 200 910 and 835 Mcf of gas per day respectively.
EOG has a 91% working interest in each of these wells.
We've continued to make strong improvements in both well productivity and cost reduction and our year-to-date drilling results have a direct a-tax rate of return in excess of 100%.
This makes the Leonard one of EOG's top return plays.
The returns are competitive with those of Eagle Ford and the Bakken.
As a reminder we have approximately 1 600 Leonard well locations in our current drilling inventory.
With these excellent returns we plan to shift more capital to this play in the future.
In the Delaware Wolfcamp we completed our fourth well in the second quarter drilled in the Wolfcamp's sweet spot of Reeves County Texas the Phillips State 56 301H was completed in the upper Wolfcamp interval blowing 870 barrels of oil per day with 570 barrels of NGL per day and 3.7 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We have 100% working interest in this well.
The Phillips State is our best well to-date in this play and it builds on our confidence that the Delaware Basin Wolfcamp is a high quality shale play.
We now have a combined data base of 200 subsurface wells in our acreage along with access to full core rock data micro-seismic frac data 3-D seismic data and four recently completed horizontal wells that confirm the strength of the play with a direct a-tax rate of return of 60% and over 1 100 drilling locations in our current inventory the Delaware Wolfcamp is another strong asset in EOG's portfolio.
Since this is a newer play with infrastructure constraints and newer leases our development activity will be slower relative to the Leonard.
In summary EOG's Delaware Basin Leonard and Wolfcamp positions are located in the sweet spot of two very strong horizontal shale plays.
Using that conservative recovery factor we have roughly 2 700 drilling locations with 1.3 billion barrels equivalent of net reserve potential that we can develop at very high capital investment returns.
The Delaware Basin plays are another reason that EOG will continue to have significant production growth for many years in the future.
During the second quarter we continue to test multiple play intervals and spacing patterns in the Midland Basin Wolfcamp.
In Crockett County the University 40-C #1705H #1706H and the #1707H were completed in the middle zone with initial rates of 1130 725 and 1070 barrels of oil per day plus 1010 98 and 75 barrels of NGL per day and 800 636 and 545 Mcf of gas per day respectively.
EOG has a 90% working interest in each of these wells.
We also completed another excellent well in Irion County in the lower pay with the University 40 #1002H which had an initial rate of 1110 barrels of oil per day plus 155 barrels of NGL per day and 115 Mcf of gas per day.
The Company has a 75% working interest in this well.
As we had discussed previously the Midland Basin Wolfcamp play is more technically and economically challenging than the Delaware play.
We’re using extensive micro seismic and 3D seismic tools to improve the completion effectiveness and reduce the well spacing in order to improve the recovery factor.
We are making steady progress.
In the Barnett Combo after more than 10 years in this area we still continue to drive down drilling days and average well cost and improve well productivity.
Recent wells include the 100% working interest Madison A unit #1H and 2H and Madison B unit # 1H with initial production rates were 430 435 and 335 barrels of oil per day.
With 340 330 and 240 Mcf of rich gas per day respectively.
We drilled the Madison wells from the spud to TD in an average of four days with a total completed cost of only $2.4 million per well.
Low cost along with consistently good wells continues to give EOG solid 30% to 40% direct a-tax rate of returns on this program.
In Trinidad we brought the Osprey OA-4 well online last month at 30 million cubic feet of gas per day rate.
We’re in the process of completing an additional four wells to increase our overall deliverability.
In the East Irish sea the start up of our Conwy oil project is now estimated for mid 2014.
I’ll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Will.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $11.8 million.
For the second quarter 2013 total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.7 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $91.3 million.
As compared to second quarter 2012 total cash expenditures decreased by $278 million.
There were $2.6 million of acquisitions during the quarter.
During the second quarter net cash provided by operating activities exceeded financing and investing cash outflows in fact we were cash flow positive during the quarter excluding any pro savings from asset sales.
Through August 1 we closed on asset sales of approximately $580 million.
At the end of June 2013 total debt outstanding was $6.3 billion and the debt to total capitalization ratio was 31%.
At June 30 we had $1.2 billion of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $5.1 billion or net debt to total cap ratio of 26%.
The reductions in the year end 2012 ratio of 29%.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter was 36% and the deferred tax ratio was 77%.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with the earnings press release for the third quarter and full-year 2013.
Our original CapEx estimate of $7.0 billion to $7.2 billion excluding acquisitions remains unchanged.
For the third quarter the effective tax rate is estimated to be 30% to 40%.
For the full-year the effective tax rate is estimated to be 35% to 45%.
We’ve also provided an estimated range of the dollar amounts of current taxes that we expect to record during the third quarter and for the full-year.
Now I’ll turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Tim.
Now I’ll provide some views regarding the macro environment hedging crude by rail and the concluding remarks.
Regarding oil we’re hesitant to provide any short range WTI price predictions considering the volatility we’ve seen over the past months.
We note that recent monthly EIA data is consistent with our expectation that 2013 year-over-year domestic oil growth will be less than 2012.
We expect EOG’s oil growth performance will be atypical of the industry as other companies with poor quality acreage or plays struggle to grow at rates similar to EOG.
We believe the U.S.
oil production will continue to grow in future years but at slower rates than 2012 and this is bullish that the global supply and demand picture.
Additionally we’re not sanguine regarding any large international shale oil plays affecting global supply within at least the next several years.
Overall we continue to be bullish regarding oil fundamentals and prices.
For the remainder of 2013 we’re approximately 53% hedged at $98.82 and we have approximately 98 000 barrels per day hedged for the first half of 2014 at $96.48.
Because the NYMEX is severely backward dated we currently have only a very small hedge for the second half of 2014.
These numbers exclude options that are exercisable by our counterparties.
Regarding North American gas prices we consider 2013 to be another and long string of disciplinary years and we expect gas supply to continue to trump demand causing continued weakness over the next several years.
Our gas hedge position is unchanged from last quarter.
We also expect NGL prices especially ethane to remain weak throughout 2014.
Our crude by rail again was a very profitable piece of business for us in the second quarter and our average U.S.
well head price was $9.50 over WTI.
We expect the premium over the index to decrease in the second half of the year due to the number of new pipelines to the Gulf Coast Louisiana markets but we see sustained high oil prices.
Our third quarter projected average U.S.
oil price is $2.75 above WTI.
The offset is WTI prices have increased over the course of the year particularly in recent weeks.
The net effect is EOG is still receiving a premium to hire overall U.S.
oil prices.
To provide some understanding of our oil net backs I’ll briefly describe our current crude marketing in our three major areas.
In the Eagle Ford majority of the oil is piped to Houston where it currently receives LOS index prices.
In the Bakken essentially all of our oil is being railed to St.
James Louisiana and in the Permian part of our oil is being railed to St.
James and partly sold locally.
We have the flexibility to sell any of our rail volumes at Cushing instead of St.
James if differentials dictate that is more profitable.
I’ll now briefly address our 2013 business plan which is consistent with what we outlined on the February and May calls except for the 2013 volume growth increases.
As Tim mentioned we still expect CapEx excluding acquisitions to be between $7.0 billion and $7.2 billion and proceeds from dispositions to date are $580 million.
Effective this quarter on a unit cost basis we reduced our full-year LOE and DD&amp;A estimates.
We still don’t plan to drill any dry gas wells this year and we continued to have zero interest in growing gas volumes in a current price environment.
Now let me conclude there are three important takeaways from this call.
First EOG’s first and second quarter results are the result of having the best acreage in the premier domestic shale oil plays and the best in-house completion technology.
Simply put our average 2013 Eagle Ford Bakken and Leonard well is performing better than predicted.
This is particularly true of our Western Eagle Ford wells.
Our current acreage will position us as an industry oil growth leader for many years to come.
Second the vast majority of our CapEx this year is going into three plays currently yielding greater than 100% direct after-tax reinvestment rate of return; the Eagle Ford Bakken and Leonard.
Each of these has 10 plus years of additional drilling inventory.
EOG has a track record of execution.
Our seven-year compound annual oil growth rate is 38%.
This high return domestic onshore oil growth we're achieving isn't just for growth sake.
What's significant is that EOG's production growth is showing up in the bottom line with first half non-GAAP net income up 69% year-over-year driving increasing ROEs and ROCEs.
Finally as is evident by our results EOG is firing on all cylinders; volumes unit cost price realizations returns and net debt reduction.
Thanks for listening.
Now we'll go to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
(Operator Instructions).
We'll take our first question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
Hi guys.
Hi Leo.
How are you? Great.
Great results here.
Just a question on the Western Eagle Ford.
Obviously as you guys have moved West it just seems like the results have certainly surpassed your expectations.
I think you guys last update on sort of the Eagle Ford average EURs and it was 450 000 boe.
Do you guys think that that has got some upward bias here given the strength as you've moved out of your core area? Yeah Leo I'll let Bill answer that but I think the number is 400 boe is the last update we've given on that so that's the number that we're sticking with at this point.
But let me have Bill address that.
No you're right.
I mean that's what we have talked about extensively here is that our Western Eagle Ford results are just like in all of our plays.
I mean they are coming up really really nicely.
The main driver for that of course is the completion technology and the cost reduction too goes along with that but the most important factor in improving the wells is the use of EOG sand.
That has been a major factor in improving our wells.
And so it also helps us to drive down the well cost and we're certainly watching the per well EURs and the Eagle Ford as we go along here.
The thing that we're not going to do is we're not going to rush to change the EURs on a per well basis really until we complete the down spacing program in the Eagle Ford.
And we're still actively down spacing both in the East and the West side of the Eagle Ford.
And so while we continue to push wells closer together we want to be careful about that per well EUR and we want to make sure we have enough time to evaluate the long-term effects of the wells on those tight spacing patterns.
So we're going to hold firm with that 400 in boe per well for now.
We'll take our next question from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Co.
Good morning and congratulations on another exceptional quarter.
Our EOG's EUR improvements in the Bakken is highlighted on slide 26 in your presentation.
Is that applicable to your Bakken light acreage as well? Yes Pearce that is.
That's a common thing that we completed a few wells in other areas in the Core and Antelope and we've seen excellent results from the new completion techniques in all of our areas.
So it would apply across the board.
Of course everybody realizes our Core acreage and our Antelope acreage is the high quality acreage so the EURs and the other areas might not be as good but certainly the completion techniques are very effective in all of the Bakken.
We'll take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hi Brian.
Wanted to just follow-up on the Eagle Ford here and wanted to see if you could characterize the remaining locations that you have to drill in the Eagle Ford and the quality of those locations whether it's meaningfully different from those that have been drilling in the last year? And whether you're seeing decline rates that are in line that are worst that your type curve? And I guess there were issues along with whether sand supply and sand supply cost will continue to kind of be available to support the remaining inventory I would think or would all those be key towards your ability to someday raise that EUR? No I'd say that our remaining inventory in the Eagle Ford is pretty analogous to what we've drilled so far this year.
As far as the sand supply issue that's definitely not a problem.
We have our in-house sand mine so the sand supply issue is really off the table.
There's not a question at all there.
I know there have been some questions about our theory that some people have had about us is as we moved West in the Eagle Ford the quality of our inventory was alleged to deteriorate but I think the one thing that results of this earnings call should dispel is the fact that our inventory in the West is pretty darn strong and we've always had a mix of East to West.
We've never preferentially drilled in one area per se.
So I think the concern people should have as we drill in later years in Eagle Ford that the rate of change in the Eagle Ford is going to somehow decline that's just not true and that's why we've been talking so much about this five-year plan of why we are so confident that our oil growth during that period is going to be superior to all other large cap E&amp;Ps because we have the engines of growth with Eagle Ford the Bakken and the stuff we had in the Permian.
And when you think about it we've got a seven-year run with 38% compound annual oil growth which I'm pretty sure is much stronger than any other company certainly in our peer group and we're telling you the next five years is going to be much stronger than the peer group.
And certainly if you look at our first and second quarter results that's just certainly underpinning that confidence.
So we feel very very good by this and the second quarter data should dispel any notions anyone should have about the range of change in the Eagle Ford being a concern.
We'll take our next question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Good morning Mark and good morning everybody.
Mark first of all congratulations in your transition.
It seems that the quarter hasn't really suffered for it but if I may ask a question about down spacing in the Eagle Ford.
You've talked about 40 in the East and 60 in the West but it seems from these well results in the West that at least you should be asking the question about how you see the inventory and the down spacing results going forward.
Can you speak to whether or not you're continuing to test tighter spacing and what your latest thinking is there? And then I've got a follow-up please.
Yeah Doug.
Yeah we are continuing to test down spacing in both the Eastern portions of our Eagle Ford acreage and the Western portions of that.
And we're going to continue to push that but we’ve always had is to maximize the net present value of the asset and we really approach that from on a per acre basis.
So as we drive the oil cost down and we push the wells closer together on a spacing pattern the goal is to maximize the net present value there.
And we’re not sure if we reach those limits or not.
We’ve been able to improve the net present value over time considerably with both cost reduction and well improvements and certainly that corresponds into additional reserve recovery which we increased several times.
So the process continues in all areas.
The completion technology continues to advance and we’re not letting up on that and the cost reductions continues to advance the increase in the recovery factor that continues to advance and all of that is focused on the net present value of the asset.
So everything is moving ahead.
And we’ll take our next question from Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Good morning guys.
Just one quick question for me you mentioned rail marketing and the relative net backs of LLS versus Cushing pricing on pipe and I was just curious if you could provide a little bit more color given the current spread dynamics of how you guys are thinking about railing versus piping crude out of the Bakken and how those economics may change over time? Thank you.
Yeah what we can say is that because relating to our crude there really isn’t a pipeline option.
I mean the only pipeline is up there is the Enbridge pipeline and we’ve very limited access to the Enbridge pipeline and so our pragmatic options up there would be trucking the crude versus railing the crude and it’s a slam-dunk there.
So for us railing the crude is the only way to go so then it just boils down to the – do you bring the crude to Cushing or do you bring it to St.
James and so far for us with a differentials were they sit today its still preferential for us to take at the St.
James versus Cushing and – but we have that option if and when the advantage would flip the other way to take it the Cushing or one of the few companies who do – would have a rail option of either place if and when that became advantageous.
Next question.
And we’ll take our next question from Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Hi.
Again congratulations on just doing such a great science and turning out really new place year after year and my question is to do Reeves County and the four wells that you’ve drilled thus far I can see sort of the percentage of oil actually marching out with your newer wells so it was looking like sort of 40% oil.
Can you shed a little light on when all is said and done sort of what is your EUR composed of in terms of percent oil natural gas liquid and gas? Yes Irene we’ve a slide on that with a pie chart.
I believe that is slide 31.
And our latest estimate here is that on the typical Wolfcamp well its 34% oil 34% gas and 33% NGL and we found that the percent oil is a little variable depending on what zone you’re drilling in the Wolfcamp and so we’re testing multiple zones there.
Of course there is an enormous amount of resource in place there our Reeves County we’ve been fortunate to be able to lease-up a very strong sweep spot in the Delaware Basin with Wolfcamp where the shale thickness is very thick and also the quality of the shale is very hot.
So we’ll get a better handle I think we’re going to drill 10 wells this year approximately and we’ll be trying multiple zones there and I think that some time later in the year I mean by next year we’ll have a little bit better idea kind of what the balance will be on the content of everything.
But right now we feel like this 34% oil is probably going to be pretty close to what its going to be.
And we’ll take our next question from Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Congratulations on a great quarter.
The question really is about your positive free cash flow position that you’re going to start hitting in ’14.
I know you lay out through different priorities but could you just give us some more color in terms of how you’re thinking how useful that excess free cash flow in terms of excess above of steady dividend growth? How much would go to incremental capital spending and the follow-up would be on the incremental capital that you would allocate? How would you think about splitting that between your three core areas of Eagle Ford Bakken and Permian? Thanks.
Yeah Amir that’s a good question.
We are going to have a lot of cash and certainly the priority is we set out and we’ve given these guidelines as we continue to work on the dividend.
We’ve had a nice 14 year increases in dividends and so we want to continue that and reward the shareholders in that way.
We also want to focus some of the money the second priority would be to continuing to reduce the debt of the Company not to the extremely low levels but a bit lower than where we’re right now.
And then number three we’ll have additional cash each year to invest in our best place.
And certainly the highest rate of return plays will be the priority there and the places where we can invest to grow oil prices – oil production most aggressively and those will not be much different than they’re this year.
That will be certainly the focus number one will be the Eagle Ford and the Bakken and as we – as over time we’ll be focusing more capital into the Leonard.
It’s turning into the very high rate of return play for us and very oily also.
So each of those plays have more 10 years of inventory in their extremely high quality plays and that’s what gives us the confidence that we can continue to be the peer leader in oil growth through 2017 and beyond.
And we’ll take our next question from Arun Jayaram from Credit Suisse.
Good morning gentlemen.
I just wanted to ask you a couple of quick questions.
One Bill I was just wanted to see if you’ve done any analysis on maybe stratifying the wells drilled on Eagle Ford looking at some of the monster wells versus perhaps some more typical well and any general comments on decline rates you’re seeing over the first year what not relative to both of those? Yeah Arun.
The stratigraphy of the Eagle Ford is pretty consistent from east to west.
There’s not a lot of individual zones developing and coming and going as you kind of go across the play.
Some of the changes are I think in the eastern part of the acreage there’s more faulting and so there is more open fracture systems available and that’s why you see sometimes you see very high IPs from the wells in the east.
On the west side there is less faulting and less open fracture systems and so it takes a little bit of a different completion technique which we obviously – we’re making very good progress with that and maybe the IPs may not ever approach the wells on the east but certainly the results in the west are very very good.
We have been able to develop techniques to increase the amount of rock that reconnect to the wells.
One of it is we drilled longer laterals in the west and we used a different kind of completion style and all that’s designed to connect up to the more of the matrix of the rock and so we’re certainly getting really good results in both areas and both areas as Mark has said we have an enormous amount of locations in both sides and so the quality of our program is certainly not going to deteriorate over time.
It's very very very strong.
We'll take our next question from Marshall Carver with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Yes good morning.
A question on the Bakken.
You have 90 000 acres in the Bakken Core.
How many acres do you have in the Antelope Extension State Line and Elm Coulee areas? Again Marshall it's a question – we've not updated our acreage position in Antelope or the Core but you're right we have 90 000 acres in the Core and this is an estimation that I think is approximately about 20 000 acres in the Antelope area.
We'll take our next question from Barry Haimes with Sage Asset Management.
Hi.
Thanks for getting my question in.
I had a question in the Bakken.
I understand and you alluded to longer lateral lengths and changing completion techniques a couple of times in the call.
And I guess in the Bakken you've drilled a few wells with maybe 15 000 foot laterals and maybe four or five times the amount of (indiscernible).
I wonder when you're talking about the different completion techniques is that what you were alluding to? Number one.
And then number two how applicable is that across the Bakken and then maybe also in the Eagle Ford? Thanks very much.
Yeah in the Bakken we feel we have a completion advantage there and we're happy to disclose that we're using more pounds of (indiscernible) than we have in the past and that we are drilling longer laterals.
But as far as giving any more specifics other than that we feel we'd be giving away some proprietary secrets and so I'm afraid Barry we're just going to have to leave it at that.
And the same for the Eagle Ford; we have gone to some bigger fracs in the Eagle Ford than we have in the past but again we feel we clearly have a proprietary advantage in our frac technology in the Eagle Ford also and we just assume to keep it proprietary.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Ray Deacon with Brean Capital.
Hi.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could give a little bit more detail on the Wolfcamp how many of each zone do you think you will have tested this year.
Yeah Ray in the Delaware – are you talking about the Delaware Wolfcamp? I guess so.
Yeah in the Delaware Wolfcamp Ray we've tested three zones this year call them the upper middle and lower zone there and we've had really good results in each one of them.
As I said before there's a little bit of different mix in each zone on the product mix whether it's oil or gas but the rock quality and the response of the wells on each one of those have been very very very strong.
So we feel that we've been very fortunate to lease up a really nice large position of the sweet spot there.
We'll take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good morning and thank you for taking my question.
I wanted to get a little more detail on the Burrow Unit and particularly I believe it was the 5H or perhaps it was the 4H that had that really fabulous IP.
But the one thing that I noticed was a little different that you guys offered the 30-day average and you get to a 30-day cumulative of I think 128 000 barrels which is really impressive.
And would I be wrong to read into that that the reason that you guys choose to include that 30-day rate is that it's better than other wells in the past? And that if that's correct to read into it is that a function of your improved fracture line? The Burrows did have a longer lateral.
It's about 7 500 foot lateral.
The other two are quite a bit shorter.
But as far as us reporting cumulative it's relative to other wells.
It's not proportionally any larger at all performing about the same just longer lateral.
At this time I'd like to turn it back to our speakers for any closing or additional remarks.
Yeah I'd just close with two remarks just again to summarize I think two points you want to take away from the call.
First point is again the Western Eagle Ford is an area that we're particularly proud of with the results.
And the second point is for the first time we can highlight three key oil plays on a direct after-tax rate of return basis.
In each of these plays we're achieving 100% or greater rate of return; Eagle Ford Bakken and Leonard.
So thanks for listening and we'll talk again in three months from now.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources third quarter 2013 earnings results conference call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Executive Chairman of the Board of EOG Resources Mr.
Mark Papa.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing third quarter 2013 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release and Investor Relations page of our website.
With me this morning are Bill Thomas President and CEO Gary Thomas COO Billy Helms EVP Exploration and Production David Trice EVP Exploration and Production Tim Driggers Vice President and CFO and Maire Baldwin Vice President Investor Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website yesterday evening and we included fourth quarter and full year guidance in yesterday's press release.
This morning we will discuss topics in the following order.
I will first discuss third quarter net income and discretionary cash flow.
Bill Thomas will review operational results.
Then Tim Driggers will then discuss financials and capital structure.
Finally I will cover our macro view and hedge position and Bill will provide concluding remarks.
As outlined in our press release for the third quarter 2013 EOG reported net income of $462.5 million or $1.69 per share.
For investors who focus on non-GAAP net income to eliminate mark-to-market impacts and certain non-recurring items as outlined in the press release EOG's third quarter 2013 adjusted net income was $634.3 million or $2.32 per share.
For investors who follow the practice of industry analysts who focus on non-GAAP discretionary cash flow EOG's DCF for the third quarter was $2.0 billion.
Similar to the first half EOG continued to hit on all cylinders in the third quarter.
Our oil NGL and gas production again exceeded guidance and unit cost beat the lower guidance provided last quarter.
Because of continued strong Eagle Ford and Bakken performance we are again raising our full year 2013 production growth estimate for oil from 35% to 39%.
NGLs from 14% to 17% and total company's growth estimate from 7.5% to 9%.
The impact of the high reinvestment rate of return Eagle Ford Bakken and Leonard investments is also showing up in our EPS and cash flow numbers as well as our ROE and ROCE ratios.
This quarter's oil results provide further confirmation regarding our five-year plan where we expect to achieve most profitable and highest oil growth rate of any large cap independent as we have done in the past six years.
No other large cap oil company has even remotely matched EOG's oil growth rate either in 2013 or for the six-year average and I am going to repeat that last sentence because it bears repeating.
No other large cap oil company has even remotely matched EOG's oil growth rate either in 2013 or for the six-year average.
We continue to have no interest in zero profit North American gas growth and we will continue the high margin oil focus.
I will now turn it over to Bill Thomas to discuss specific operational results.
Thanks Mark.
I will start with our third quarter 2013 Eagle Ford results.
During the third quarter we continued to achieve 100% direct [after-tax] rate of return from both the Western and Eastern portions of our 565 09 000 net acres in the Eagle Ford continuous improvement in well productivity and operational efficiency are driving cost down and production up.
As a result we now expect to drill and complete 460 net wells in the Eagle Ford this year which is an increase of 20 wells since last quarter.
We have been able to increase the planned well count every quarter this year because we are going well faster and more cost effectively.
In the West we completed a number of the Mitchell Unit wells in order to earn acreage and establish multi-well development patterns.
The [Unit] #1H began production at 2 195 barrels of oil per day plus 1.0 million cubic feet of rich gas per day.
The press release noted.
The Kaiser Junior unit #1H has the best well to-date in the West.
The well came online at 2 815 barrels of oil per day plus 1.3 cubic feet of rich gas per day.
The Nelson Zella Unit #1H and 2H began production on 1 960 and 2 810 barrels of oil per day plus 1.0 and 0.8 million cubic feet per day of rich gas respectively.
To continue pattern development of the River Lowe Ranch We completed an additional six wells the River Lowe Ranch #4H through 9H had initial flow rates of 1 970 to 2 115 barrels of oil per day plus 1.0 and 1.1 million cubic feet per day of rich gas.
EOG has 100% working interest in each of these Western wells.
The consistently strong drilling results from the West in the first three quarters have been a significant contributor to EOG's Eagle Ford oil growth in 2013.
Page 19 of the IR presentation has an updated chart that shows average IP rates for our Western wells are 20% higher in the third quarter than the first quarter of this year.
The continuous improvements in well productivity as a result of new frac techniques and the downward trend of well cost through operational efficiencies give us a high confidence level in the strength of our large drilling inventory on our Western Eagle Ford acreage.
In the East we continued the development of the Baker-DeForest Unit with the #5H #6H and #7H falling 3 200 3 560 and 4 115 barrels of oil per day with 3.5 4.1 and 4.4 million cubic feet per day of rich gas respectively.
We also began development of several new acreage units with the completion of the Justiss Unit #1H #2H and #3H flowing 3 885 3 560 and 3 940 barrels of oil per day plus 4.4 5.0 and 5.6 million cubic per day of rich gas respectively.
In addition the Vinklarek Unit #1H was completed flowing 4 510 barrels of oil per day with 5.9 million cubic feet per day of rich gas.
EOG has 100% working interest in each of these Western wells.
As noted on our second quarter call we continue to test downspacing patterns in both the East and West.
The downspacing process takes time.
The ultimate goal is to maximize oil recovery in the net present value of the acreage.
In summary EOG's Eagle Ford position and our operational team are proven to be the most powerful all oil growth offense in North America.
Quarter-by-quarter this asset continues to get better and better.
We have many years of drilling inventory in this high rate of return play.
Now I will shift to the Bakken Three Forks.
We continue to seek outstanding results from the technical renaissance in frac technology that we started in 2012 in conjunction with our downspacing program in the core.
Recent downspaced wells in the core including the Van Hook 126-2523H and 130-2526H with initial production rates of 2 235 and 1 910 barrels of oil per day plus 1 115 and 900 MCF per day of rich gas respectively.
The Wayzetta 137-2226H and 150-1509H which began producing 2 500 and 2 320 barrels of oil per day with 1.2 and 1.1 million cubic feet per day of rich gas respectively.
In the Antelope Extension area we completed three excellent Three Forks wells in the first bench.
The The Bear Den 100-2017H 101-2019H and 23-2019H began flowing 2 100 1 235 and 1 665 barrels of oil per day plus 2.0 1.2 and 1.6 million cubic feet per day of rich gas respectively.
We are encouraged by the Three Forks' potential in the Antelope are.
We completed an excellent well in the second bench early this year and plan to test the third bench during 2014.
We are now achieving direct a-tax rates of return in excess of 100% in both the Core and Antelope areas.
We added two new slides to the IR presentation showing EOG's outstanding 2013 results.
Page 23 shows EOG's 2013 completions have 58% more production in the first 100 days as compared to those completed in 2012.
The same slide also shows year-to-date IP rates from these two areas are up 50% as compared to last year.
Page 25 shows EOG compared to 20 different Bakken operators.
EOG's average IP this year is 1.9 times better than the peer average.
With a modest drilling program we are going oil volumes and setting new production records.
On our second quarter call we increased our drilling inventory in the Bakken Three Forks from 7 to 12 years.
With excellent results and our large inventory we anticipate increasing drilling activity in the Bakken Three Forks in 2014.
In our Delaware Basin Leonard and Wolfcamp plays our third quarter activity was centered on drilling multiple well spacing patterns testing numerous target zones and optimizing frac techniques to improve well economics and recovery factors.
In the Leonard play we completed a number of wells in Lea County New Mexico.
The Endurance 36 State Com #4H was completed in the B zone at an initial rate of 875 barrels of oil per day with 1.1 million cubic feet per day of rich gas.
This is one of our first B zone tests and initial rates are excellent.
We completed two new wells in the A zone.
The Endurance 36 State Com #3H 735 barrels of oil per day with 1.2 million cubic feet per day of rich gas.
We are completing a number of wells the A zone and drilling a number of wells that we will test multiple targets zones and well spacing patterns.
Year-to-date direct a-tax rate of returns have exceeded 100% of this drilling program so we continue to be very excited about the Leonard.
We plan to significantly increase activity in the Leonard next year with approximately 1 600 locations in inventory.
The Leonard is a powerful part of our offensive arsenal that will enable EOG to continue to [legally] and high margin oil growth through 2017.
In the Delaware Wolfcamp play we have previously said that we were waiting on infrastructure.
We can now report that as of October 1 gathering infrastructure is in place and operational.
We are now ready to complete two multi-well patterns to test various spacing and targets.
We plan to use microseismic to determine frac geometry and monitor production in order to determine optimal development patterns for our Delaware Wolfcamp acreage.
We have more than 1 100 locations in inventory currently generating direct a-tax rates returns of 60%.
Drilling for the remainder of this year and next will be focused on establishing optimal well spacing completion techniques and evaluating multiple target zone the set this play for full scale development in 2015 and beyond.
We now have approximately 134 000 net acres in the play.
In Trinidad we completed our Osprey platform drilling program which should provide for flat production in 2014 versus 2013.
In the East Irish Sea the startup of our Conwy oil project is now estimated for late 2014.
In addition to our ongoing efforts to increase recovery factors in our existing plays through downspacing and completion improvements we have not lost our momentum or focus on searching for new reserve potential with domestic greenfield plays.
To summarize EOG has captured the best horizontal oil acreage in North America and our high performance operational teams continue to execute superbly.
Wells are getting better unit costs are coming down and oil production continues to increase at peer leading growth rates.
We have a very strong inventory of crude oil and liquids rich drilling prospects with high after-tax rates return.
We continue to focus on delivering high margin oil growth increasing recoverable reserves and existing assets and generating new plays to ensure that EOG remains best-in-class through 2017 and beyond.
I will now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Bill.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $12.6 million.
For the third quarter 2013 total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.8 billion excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $87.6 million.
There were $89.2 million of acquisitions during the quarter.
During the third quarter net cash provided by operating activities exceeded financing investing cash outflows.
Year-to-date we have closed on asset sales of approximately $620 million and we expect approximately $750 million in total asset sales by year end.
This is a $200 million increase from our previous estimate.
At the end of September 2013 total debt outstanding was $6.3 billion and the debt to total capitalization ratio was 30%.
At September 30 we had $1.3 billion of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $5.0 billion for a net debt to total cap ratio of 25% reduction from 29% at year end 2012.
On October 1 we paid off $400 million of debt that matured with cash on hand.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter was 36% and the deferred tax ratio was 65%.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with our earnings press release for the fourth quarter and full year 2013.
Our CapEx estimate for the full year is approximately $7.2 billion.
For the fourth quarter the effective tax rate is estimated to be 35% to 40%.
For the full-year the effective rate is estimated to be 35% to 38%.
We have also provided an estimated range on the dollar amount of the current taxes that we expect to record during the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Now I will turn it over to Mark.
Thanks Tim.
Now I will provide our views regarding the macro environment hedging and 2014 activity.
Regarding oil we believe that absolute 2013 total U.S.
oil growth will be less than 2012 and this trend will continue in subsequent years.
Through August the EIA monthly data indicate 2013 oil production is on trend to increase 600 000 barrels per day on an annualized basis compared to 1 million barrels per day in 2012.
We continue to be pragmatically bullish regarding oil prices partially because we don't expect any large international shale oil plays to impact global supply for at least five years.
In terms of 2014 oil hedges we have 123 000 barrels per day hedged for the first half of 2014 at $96.44.
For the second half of 2014 we have 9 000 barrels per day hedged at $95.30 per barrel.
We have a number of contracts outstanding that could be put to us at various terms.
For the first half of 2014 we have 64 000 barrels a day of options that could be put to us at approximately $99.60 on December 31 2013 if it is advantageous to the counterparty to do so.
For the second half we have 10 000 barrels per day of hedges that could be put to us at $96.60 on or about March 31 2014.
Also for the second half we have 103 000 barrels per day of hedges that could be put to us at $96.60 on or about June 30 2014.
Regarding North American gas prices I suspect I have a reputation as the most various CEO or former CEO in E&amp;P business and I am not going to change that reputation on my last earnings call.
I believe the gas prices will stay depressed until the 2018 timeframe.
So EOG will not be in any hurry to generate a lot of gas deliverability.
The current Marcellus location differential is likely just a harbinger of chronic Appalachian price dislocations that we will see over the next multiple years.
Our gas hedge position is unchanged from last quarter.
We also expect ethane prices to remain weak until 2018.
For the third quarter our average U.S.
oil price realization was $2.74 above WTI within $0.01 of our guidance.
This premium over WTI has shrunk considerably compared to our first half realization because WTI has increased relative to LOS.
As EOG has done in the past we will discuss our detailed 2014 business plan on the February earnings call.
However we can provide a few conceptual thoughts at this time.
Assuming oil and gas prices are similar to the current NYMEX EOG will likely ramp its 2014 activity in Eagle Ford and Bakken Three Forks plays above 2013 levels.
In the Permian basin our overall CapEx will likely be flat but the spend ratio will shift dramatically from this year's allocation of 65% in the Midland basin 35% in the Delaware to 15% Midland basin 85% Delaware Basin next year.
Also we again plan to drill zero North American dry gas wells in 2014 because we see no light at the end of the gas oil supply tunnel until 2018.
Now I will turn it over to Bill for summary remarks.
Thanks Mark.
Now let me conclude.
There are four important takeaways from this call.
First our third quarter and nine-month year-to-date results confirm that EOG's oil growth momentum is not diminishing.
Our six-year compound annual growth rate is 38% which is awesome when you consider this growth is 100% organic.
Each of our three key plays has 12 plus years of currently defined inventory.
So EOG is built for the long haul.
Second our unit cost control have been impressive as evidenced by today's results and the full year guidance provided yesterday.
Third the vast majority of our CapEx is going into three plays yielding 100% direct after-tax rates of return the Eagle Ford the Bakken and the Leonard.
These returns are showing up in the bottom line with nine-month non-GAAP net income up 55% year-over-year increasing ROEs and ROCEs our net debt ratio was reduced from 29% at year-end 2012 to 25% at September 30<sup>th</sup>.
Finally the board now have asked Mark to stay on as the a director after he retires at year end.
I am happy to report that Mark has agreed to do so.
This will provide additional continuity and experience to our board.
Now I will turn it back to Mark for one closing remark.
Thanks Bill.
This is my last earnings call and I want to thank everyone on both buy and sell side for investing your time and patience in EOG story.
I have enjoyed working with all you and have a sincere appreciation for all that you do.
I am leaving the company in good hands with Bill Thomas and intend to keep my personal EOG stock holdings for a long time.
Thanks for listening and now we will go to Q&amp;A.
Thank you sir.
(Operator Instructions) First we will go to Leo Mariani with RBC.
Hi guys.
A question on fourth quarter guidance here.
Clearly you had really robust oil production growth in 3Q.
You guys are guiding to sort of a lower increases in 4Q.
Just can you give us some color on that that is a function of trying to stay within our CapEx budget this year? Leo let me put in a little bit of context.
If you go back t 2012 in 2012 over 2011 we grow oil production 39% that year and actually our 4Q oil production actually declined versus 3Q.
If you remember there was a lot of concern as we exited 2012.
People were saying oh boy I am nervous by EOG's 2013 oil growth because the trend line is 4Q production was falling relative to 3Q and it doesn't look good.
Then look at results for 2013.
We grow production again 39% so if you look at it on a historic context people shouldn't too nervous.
Actually we are going to not fall in oil production we are going to slightly grow in oil production 4Q over 3Q.
There are some reasons for that.
One is we are going to be drilling some isolated leaseholder wells more than typical which as opposed to drilling more groups of wells particularly in Eagle Ford and also some potential weather conditions in the Bakken but if you just look at the 2012 trend and look at what we are projecting for 2013 and the fourth quarter I think that should ameliorate any concerns now about what we are likely to do 2014.
I am not projecting we are going to do another 39% oil growth in 2014 because obviously there are a lot of big numbers that's going to catch up with this one percent year-over-year but no one should view the situation that oil growth in the fourth quarter is likely a slowdown our trend of a significant oil growth in 2014.
Okay.
That's really helpful color.
I guess just in terms of frac technology.
Obviously you guys had talked about a lot better completions in the Bakken and I am certainly assuming that that's going to be applicable to other areas Eagle Ford Permian et cetera.
I mean could you guys give us a kind of a ballpark on kind of what inning we are in in terms of just improving frac techniques and completions? I mean it's just kind of the early days here and can we expect a lot better improvements in recovery in your key plays going forward? Yes.
That's a good question Leo.
The frac technology that's really making a big impact of the Bakken as actually we brought that from on the shale plays with mainly the Eagle Ford cut completion process that we have been so successful in that play with.
So it is improving really in all of our plays.
Basically there is a lot of simple fundamental things.
We have had a big advantage with our EOG sand.
As a company it has not only provided very low cost and help us reduce our completion cost it's also really helped us technically to be able to experiment more to use more sand and that is a big part of the reason our wells are much better.
I would say we are probably in the fifth or sixth inning if you had put in baseball terms on where we are on the completion technology process.
We continue quarter-by-quarter to make advances and we are learning all the time.
The EOG culture is that we are never satisfied and we never quit thinking and experimenting and trying new things and really thinking out-of-the-box on new technology in all areas.
So we are going to continue to press on and we are hopeful that we will have continued new improvements as we move along.
Well that's great to hear.
Thanks a lot guys.
Next we will go to Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Mark hi.
Congratulations.
You have left a heck of a legacy behind you.
I have got a couple questions if I may.
Maybe a follow-up on Lea zone on the completion.
There has been a lot of chatter obviously.
I think you guys have been out and about talking about some of the things you have been doing in particular in the Bakken as you transferred some of your Eagle Ford (inaudible).
Could you just help us a little bit with how you are seeing the impact of some of these changes in terms of very very high IP rates obviously but is this also translating into higher recovery rates? And if so I guess I asked this question on the last call why have you not yet decided to lift your EURs particularly in the Eagle Ford? Yes that's a good question there Doug.
Thank you.
The whole process on all of these horizontal wells is connecting more rock to the well and so we are very focused on doing that and also with a real strong effort on the frac geometry trying to keep the fracs closer to the well.
If you connect more rock you are hopeful that recoveries and the total recoveries of the field will go up but we have not really proven that yet.
We have proven it two times with two generations of downspacing in the Eagle Ford and we are currently on the third one.
So we are really watching what we are doing.
It takes quite a bit of time to establish and determine specifically if there is any increase in reserve potential or changing of the EUR per well and we are just not there yet on this third generation in the Eagle Ford.
So when we get that done we will certainly pass that on.
That is going to take a bit more time.
We want to be able to technically be accurate any numbers that give to you.
So we are very careful to do our homework and to do our work right and to provide you really with record numbers and that process does take some time.
Okay thank you for that.
Yes Doug.
Sorry a little addition on that.
Our view is that the industry has just been a little bit flippant with numbers.
Reserves had been just floated about on essentially all plays.
Billion barrels 5 billion barrels BOEs and it is just numbers that we think is just keep in the reserve estimating system a little bit but people just throwing number that offhand and EOG has not really joined that party.
We on the other hand have been very cautious very judicious in the numbers that we have given and we like to think we set our standards a little bit higher than most other companies have done when they issue reserve numbers and particularly with Eagle Ford.
We just take a lot longer to qualify our numbers before we issue them.
So that's a little bit of a difference.
I would like to say our standards are higher before we issue numbers on Eagle Ford but we are certainly reviewing.
When it meets our standards for potential reserve upgrade we will certainly let everyone in the investment community know.
Thank you.
My follow-up a really quick one I guess we were all watching your balance sheet improve and expecting stuff like free cash flow next year but should we given your comments and stepping up activity should we be thinking that you are again spending cash flow next year but obviously with a substantial step up in activity and I will leave at that.
Thanks.
What you should read through on the comments on the comments we made on the 2014 CapEx is that if oil prices stay where they are now then we will likely step up our CapEx over the 2013 levels.
That's the only thing we are really saying at this point.
We have not made any comments relating to free cash flow and we think at this point we should be in a decent position relating to that but we are looking at accelerating our overall CapEx.
The degree of acceleration is yet to be determined though.
All right.
Thanks again.
Congratulations yet again Mark.
Thank you.
Next we will go to David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Hi.
I will echo what Doug said Mark congratulations on (Inaudible) the company and doing what you have done there.
Thanks David.
Let me just take the free cash flow question one step further.
If we think about if we start looking at next year and you can choose whether or not generate free cash flow but if you look at the 15 pretty powerful cash flow generation.
How should we think about how are you guys going to allocate capital over the next two years? Yes David.
We are set to have very very strong cash flow growth in the company and we have given guidance on the counter priorities that number one we want to continue to have a healthy increase in the rate of dividend growth in the company so that is number one.
Number two you know we are committed to be a low debt company and to work that net debt to cap ratio gradually downward over time and then the big part of the capital what's left over will go to our best plays.
We are going to be very very focused on capital discipline and capital efficiency and we are going to focus the capital where we can achieve the highest rates return.
Fortunately for EOG we have a lot of opportunities.
Of course you we are getting very high rates return on the Eagle Ford and the Eagle Ford will continue to get more money each year.
The Bakken with the dramatic improvements we have had in it is now equal you know to the Eagle Ford in returns in excess of 100% so it will get more money each year and we have built the Leonard play into a very successful play and have a very large inventory in the play also with 100% rates of return so those plays will be first on the list to get more capital each year.
The company is really in great shape to continue to grow cash flow strongly and also to have very strong capital returns and capital efficiency as we go along.
Okay.
Let me ask a little bit different way.
[2015] could you draw - can the organization today handle another $1 billion $1.5 billion capital what you do in '14 or first should we look for - Obviously balance sheet is down.
I mean are you guys looking at dividend increase (Inaudible) '15free cash flow numbers.
What happen to that? Yes.
I think we are going to have to lag and be a bit caution on giving guidance for '15 at this point and we will see how that all go along.
I mean we are going to be as I said the capital efficiency in the return on the reinvestment capital is really our primary focus and I believe we can continue to improve that over time which will directly go to the bottom line of the company so we are going to be very focused on that and be very diligent about spending and staying disciplined.
As I said the dividend increase certainly will be the first part of our priority and will just discuss that as we go along and kind of watch the returns of the company and where we on the capital.
All right.
I will let somebody else jump on.
Thanks for the color.
Next we will go to Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning and congratulations Mark for a well-deserved retirement.
Thanks Pearce.
My first question is in the Eagle Ford you have a nice downtick in your drill times.
Down to nine days.
Previously you were less than 12 days.
Just curious using that baseball analogy from earlier how many handy flips or innings do you think you are in as far as this drill times in the Eagle Ford? As far as the Eagle Ford with us saying nine days we would say probably again we are in the sixth seventh inning there.
We are just continuing to work on our consistency.
We have had many wells that are quite a bit faster than that.
So we are please with the improved consistency with our drilling operations here.
Our record day is five days.
Thank you and then my follow-up just coming back to the activity as it relates to next year reading on the '14 guidance that you have provided in the prepared remarks.
Do you think that this means a higher rig count as well as higher well count or more a flattish rig count but given the improvement in drilling times et cetera that we would see higher well count? We expect that our rig count is going to be similar to what we had this year.
We had a peak this year of 56 rigs and we probably averaged somewhere around 50 but we expect just continued improvement with rig efficiencies.
We have upgraded our entire rig fleet and we fortunately now have what I would just classify is just premium rigs.
Excellent.
Thank you very much and congratulations Mark.
Thank you.
And now we will go to Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good morning everyone and thank you for taking my question.
If I could first just go to the capital allocation part of your discussion here.
Looking at the results up in the Bakken it looks like you have had great results not only with that infill program in Core but also with the Three Forks over in Antelope Extension.
So could you talk a little bit about how you are thinking of prioritizing the incremental ramp in that area between those two efforts? Yes Charles.
We have had some very excellent results.
As we talked about we have had a number of good wells in the Three Forks in the first bench and then we did complete an excellent well in the second bench this year and these recent wells have all been done with the same new completion technology that we are using in the Core.
It has been very successful.
So we have and particularly in the Antelope area we do believe that we have potential in the third bench and possibly in the fourth bench in the Antelope.
So as time goes along we will be testing those and working on what kind of development patterns and spacing that we can develop the Three Forks (inaudible) and there other areas in the Bakken in the Williston Basin Bakken acreage that we do feel like that could be additional Three Forks potential that we have not drilled.
So that's the step-by-step process we go along and learn more about the Three Forks.
So as we said we are getting extremely strong rates of return in the Bakken.
We have 12 years of inventory there.
So as next year and the years go along we believe that we will be drilling more wells each year in the Bakken and that's really the whole Bakken Three Forks has even with our modest drilling this year we have been able to continue to grow production there and we are setting production records there quite often in the pocket even with the modest programs.
So we have got some good expectations as we go forward.
Got it.
Thank you for that detail Bill.
Then one other thing and this maybe a little bit more conceptual.
When we look at the and I really appreciate this new slide where you are showing the 2013 mini drills versus the 2012 and how the cumulative production you have had that in 20% or 30% or 50% 60% increase and I was wondering if you could characterize that as how much of that is a function of capital that you are putting into the well whether through more stages or big fracs and how much of it is more kind of a free benefit from a better design? Yes.
There are several things going on.
Obviously those are normalized on a per foot basis so that takes out the lateral length.
As we have learned in all these plays as I said before connecting more rock and connecting that rock that closer to the wellbore is the goal that we are working on.
As increase the amount of sand that we put in the Bakken we feel like we are also doing a much better job of distributing that sand and the fluid frac along the lateral more evenly so that helps to connect more lock and get more of the oil in contact with the well so what we are seeing on these wells with the new improved frac is that when they come on really knocks our peace as we reported but they also have a little slower decline rate than the initial wells.
They hold up better and so the initial whether it's a 30-day rate or the 100-day cumulative production are showing quite a bit of improvement because we are moving that oil forward in the production lot for the well so it's nice good successful technical renaissance that we are achieving there in the Bakken and seeing really good results because of it.
Now we will go to Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Hello.
Mark.
This is Irene.
Congratulations and we will very much miss you in this capacity but we look see around oil hedge and one last question why 2018 is the year that we would see the light at the end of the tunnel and then a way out to the gas glut.
I am going to miss you too Irene.
I believe in 2018 is when we will have the first significant impact of the of gas exports in way of LNG from these converted former LNG import terminals.
I think that's when we will really have the first meaningful impact and I think that may have some impact on prices so that is kind of the that way I see things.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Next we will hear from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Mark congratulations and best of luck as well.
You mentioned Greenfield exploration remains a commitment I wonder even if you can't provide specifics if you could characterize what we should expect from your exploration program in terms of size or production impact in the next few years and how impactful brownfield opportunities like water floods in the shale could be? Yes Brian.
Certainly as you said there and noted that exploration has not lost any focus [Leonard] EOG.
We still have same people the same culture and the same focus on that and I truly do believe EOG will continue to be a first mover in that area as we go forward.
As you also noted we are reticent talking about new plays for a number of reasons and we really don't want to talk about any specifics of those plays until we have some meaningful results to report.
Then in the secondary recovery efforts I think EOG will also be a leader.
We don't know any other companies really working on secondary recovery in the Eagle Ford.
As we reported earlier we have a dry gas injection pilot program going on in Eagle Ford and that will take a good bit of time to determine whether that's going to be successful and whether that's the proper method on that.
Then we also have water injection pilot going on in the Bakken and that will take some time too so we fully are committed and I really do expect that EOG will be a technical leader in the shale plays and new plays and secondary recovery and also cost reduction.
We just got a culture in the company that is very focused on all that and we are going to be taking that forward.
Brian this is Mark.
Let me add something to that because I did get a chance to (inaudible) note this morning where you made a comment or words to the effect that EOG's valuation was still quite low because there seems to be a perception that EOG didn't have the reserve life that company didn't generate the production growth that we had or exhibiting because of difference in reserve life and EOG was perceived to have great production growth but not its own reserve life.
Here is to real-world examples from the two biggest oil assets in North America relating to EOG.
At the beginning of this year I think most everybody viewed EOG's Bakken position as a static position kind of a non-growth position and look at it now.
Now we are making the best wells in the Bakken.
We view it as a considerable growth position and we are quite excited about it and I believe that everybody is looking at it as a growth position for EOG on a go forward basis.
Second one is the Eagle Ford.
A year ago everybody said yes EOG is hitting grand slams daily in the Eastern Eagle Ford but in the Western Eagle Ford everybody knows lower quality and EOG is not going to do as well in the Western Eagle Ford.
That was just 12 months ago.
Look at our results now.
We are getting 100% rate of return in the Western Eagle Ford and we are getting 200% rate of return in the Eastern Eagle Ford.
But the highlight of our last two earnings calls in the Eagle Ford has been the Western Eagle Ford.
So in the span of 12 months we have taken our two best oil assets and taken what was perceived to be weaknesses lack of growth in the Bakken and Western Eagle Ford and turned them into major strengths in both areas.
And that's one thing that I think you can continue to see from EOG is that the Eagle Ford and the Bakken the two best oil plays in the United States are going to continue to turn out to be overall grand slams for EOG for at least the next decade plus in addition to the greenfield work and the secondary recovery work we have.
So we hope that our investors would see the lessons that has shown up here in the last year and certainly take a look and say who is generating the results among all the E&amp;P companies.
We think results matter and we will stack our results up against any company in the business.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
Go ahead.
Okay.
Yes thanks.
that's helpful.
I guess as a follow-up shifting to the Permian Basin.
You mentioned in your opening comments that you are shifting more to you are going to start doing the multiwell spacing in targets in the Delaware Basin stating with the microseismic.
Can you just add some color on what your base case expectations for multiwell development would look like and how play zones you are planning on developing there? Yes in the Delaware Wolfcamp we will focus on a very nice sweet spot in the Wolfcamp there and today we have completed four wells there in three different play zones and those play zones are located in the upper part of the Wolfcamp.
The upper part of the Wolfcamp we believe will tend to be a bit more oily than the lower part of the Wolfcamp.
So we will be testing additional zones there.
The actual Wolfcamp thickness there is very thick like somewhere around 2 000 feet of total thickness to work with and there are numerous additional play zones that we have not targeted or tested yet but the goal is we are completing a couple of patterns now on different spacing well spacing and different targeting geometries and we will do some microseismic on some of those and work on the frac geometry on how to contain the frac close to the well and to make it complex to where we are connecting more rock and just see what that is in respect to the spacing that we are drilling the wells on and also production results of all those different things we are going to do.
It's a process that it will take some time.
It will take several years really to figure out the most optimum way to do it just like it has been in the Eagle Ford but the recovery factors for the total Wolfcamp at this point are very low.
Our goal would be to hopefully increase those recoveries as we go along so we have got a lot of work to do there but the good side of all this is that this Delaware Wolfcamp had target rates of return of 60% and so it is a very strong rate of return play for us already and hopefully we can improve as we go along.
Next we go to Biju Perincheril with Jefferies.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Congratulations Mark.
My question is if I would go back to the completions one more time and look at the - Bill I think you mentioned that you are seeing 30 day rate and I think 90 day rates but if you look at the decline curves of the new completions versus the previous completions? Are you seeing the higher rate holding up or do you see a curve eventually converging? Wondering why the hesitancy on (Inaudible).
Biju do you have it on speaker? Can you hear me better now? Yes Biju.
Thank you.
Okay.
Sorry about that.
Yes.
I was wondering about the declined curves on the new completions versus the older completions.
Are you seeing the new curves consistently staying higher or do you see them eventually converging as you get to the tail portion of the production curve? In the Bakken? In the Bakken.
Well new completions in general in the Bakken and Eagle Ford.
Yes.
In the Bakken specifically yes we are seeing that the initial part of the production of the well are holding up and the decline rates are a bit flatter than the older wells.
It's because the fracs are bigger and more expensive and we are just connecting more rock to the new completions than we did with the original wells that we completed in there.
In the Eagle Ford we have got multiple things going on there.
We are downspacing as well as working on frac technology at the same time so we are still in the process of learning of that and so I would say comparing the Eagle Ford decline rate is maybe a bit more difficult than the Bakken at this point.
Then the hesitancy on commenting on reserves whether you are seeing how much of an EUR uplift that you are seeing is that simply wanting to see more of that data or is there other factors that come into play here? No.
Specifically we need more comp because you just can't go by the early time of the well.
You really need to have enough production time to get a good read on the total production of the well.
Again as Mark commented we are very very cautious about coming out with new EURs per well our new recovery fractures for any of our plays until we have had the very thorough technical review of that and had enough time to really evaluate it and to make a good call on it.
Next we will go to Phillips Johnston with Capital One.
Hi guys.
You alluded to this in your prepared remarks but your Eagle Ford wells continue to generate returns above 100% even in the West now which likely suggests suboptimal spacing.
Obviously downspacing continues to be a work-in-progress and it's going to take more time and I am just wondering how you are thinking about the tradeoff just between per well returns and NPV per section whether or not you think it makes sense for further downspacing to accelerate NPV per section even if means that our returns fall down in the call it the 50% to 75% range.
Yes that's exactly what we are doing.
We are very focused on that NPV of the asset and the particular lease.
So the returns are certainly a part of that but we are also reducing cost at the same time on the wells and it's a balancing act.
So we are very very focused on generating the maximum NPV for that particular lease of that particular asset and that's the goal that we are focused on.
And that's the reason it takes a bit of time to determine that.
You have to really give the wells.
You have to do things and then give wells enough time to respond and to monitor that and to model that.
Is there a minimum sort of per well IRR that you would be willing to live with if it meant accelerating the NPV? No accelerating the NPV is the goal.
Okay got it and then just getting back to the subject of free cash flow.
At this point it looks like even your Eagle Ford program is now free cash flow positive.
So I am just wondering if you have reconsidered at all this strategic value of keeping some of your mature legacy assets and if so does it now make sense to monetize some just to highlight NAV of your growth assets? I think we have over the last several years sold $4 billion of assets.
Though it's not likely in our 2014 plan that we are going to have significant asset sales as we see it now.
I think right now maybe $700 million worth of assets sales but not a larger amount of asset sales as we see it now.
So don't look for a big strategic repositioning as you may be suggesting.
(inaudible).
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Yes.
That's all the time we have for questions today.
So I would like to turn it over to Mr.
Mark Papa for any more additional remarks.
Well in my remark I would say I am going to miss you all.
Thanks for everything.
That does conclude today's call.
We thank everyone again for their participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Tim Driggers Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I am Tim Driggers CFO.
Thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release in Investor Relations page on our website.
Participating on the call this morning are Bill Thomas Chairman and CEO Gary Thomas Chief Operating Officer Billy Helms Executive VP Exploration and Production Maire Baldwin Vice President IR and Jill Miller Manager Engineering and acquisitions.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website yesterday evening and we included a guidance for the first quarter and full year 2014 in yesterday's press release.
This morning we will discuss topics in the following order.
I will start with fourth quarter and full-year net income and discretionary cash flow Bill Thomas and Billy Helms will review operational results and year-end reserve replacement data then I will discuss EOG's financials capital structure and hedge position.
Bill will cover EOG's macro view our 2014 business plan and provide concluding remarks.
As outlined in yesterday's press release for fourth quarter 2013 EOG reported net income of $580 million or $2.12 per share.
For investors who are focus on non-GAAP net income to eliminate mark-to-market impacts and certain nonrecurring items as outlined in the press release EOG's fourth quarter 2013 adjusted net income was $548 million or $2 per share.
For the full year 2013 EOG reported net income of $2.2 billion or $8.04 per share and adjusted basis full year net income was $2.25 billion or $8.22 per share.
For investors who follow the practice of focusing on non-GAAP discretionary cash flow EOG's discretionary cash flow for the fourth quarter was $1.9 billion.
Using the same methodology for the full year 2013 EOG's discretionary cash flow was $7.4 billion.
For the full year 2013 EOG's net cash provided by operating activities exceeded financing investing cash outflows.
At December 31 2013 debt to total cap was 28%.
Net debt was reduced by $841 million during 2013 resulting in an ending net debt to total cap ratio of 23% down from 29% at year-end 2012.
I will now turn it over to Bill Thomas to discuss operations.
Thanks Tim.
2013 was EOG's best year on record Over the course of 2013 EOG increased crude oil production growth targets three times and ended the year with total company oil production up 40% over 2012.
This is a 44% average increase over the last three years.
Our key assets the Eagle Ford Bakken and Leonard keep getting better and we continue to improve well productivities from these plays.
The 42% increase in U.S.
oil production last year is solid proof of the depth of EOG's drilling inventory.
For the year NGL production increased 17% while natural gas production decreased 11% for a total company production growth of 9%.
EOG cost structure is a focus area and for the fourth quarter and full year unit costs were lower than expected.
The combination of increased growth from high margin oil with the decreasing cost structure flowed through our income statement and balance sheet further deleveraging the company and generating a 16% ROE for the year a big increase from 12% for 2012.
We updated the ROE and ROCE charts in our IR presentation on pages 14 and 15 showing our improving metrics and a comparison of our results to our peers.
While I discuss 2014 business plan in greater detail later on in this call EOG is targeting 27% oil production growth in 2014.
Given the strength of our balance sheet and the depth of our high margin domestic crude oil drilling inventory we have increased CapEx levels over 2013 to accelerate drilling of the high rate return oil inventory.
Last year we added two new locations for every one well we drilled.
With this strong operational momentum in our key areas of activity we plan to keep it going.
The biggest driver of EOG's outstanding crude oil growth during 2013 is the topic of one of today's biggest new items is Eagle Ford.
For the third time since EOG discovered oil in the play in 2010 we have increased the net reserve potential.
We now estimate EOG's total net reserve potential on our acreage to be 3.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
That's a 45% increase from the previous 2.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent estimate.
This is a great example of the value of EOG's exploration focus and organic growth strategy by being first mover in capturing the best assets we are able to grow them to the drill bit and improve them over time with in-house ingenuity and well completions.
Our wells across the Eagle Ford continue to exceed our expectations.
The Eagle Ford will again be our biggest oil growth driver and our highest of rate return asset in 2014.
Last year our Eagle Ford drilling program focused primarily on two aspects number one improving well productivity in the West.
Prior to 2013 we had drilled very few wells on that portion of our acreage.
Suffice it to say our successful drilling program in the West was big part of EOGs growth in the Eagle Ford and the continued high rate of return activity we recorded in the play last year.
During the fourth quarter the average IP rate of wells in the West exceeded the average IP rate of wells in the East.
On a go-forward basis we will talk about one Eagle Ford oil play as both the East and Western areas are contributing more or less proportionally to the remaining reserve potential.
Number two improving reserve recovery and maximizing NPV our goal was to determine the optimum well spacing while increasing well productivity and decreasing well cost.
We will continue to work on these two goals.
What we concluded was first our downspacing efforts proved even more successful than we have previously thought.
While the optimum distance between wells will vary across the field depending on various geologic considerations on average the wells will be drilled on 40 acre spacing.
Second as a result we have approximately 7 200 net locations taking into account 1 200 net wells drilled to-date we have 6 000 net wells remaining.
This represents a 12-year drilling inventory at our current activity level.
Third based on our improvements in completions we increased by 12% the net recoverable reserve per well up from our previous 400 Mboe net per well to 450 in Mboe net per well.
Multiplying 7 200 net wells by 450 in Mboe brings our total net potential recoverable reserves for the Eagle Ford at 3.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent with four years of production history from our early wells and database of over 1 200 EOG wells we are confident in the long-term performance and potential reserve estimate of the Eagle Ford.
Overall performance from the field continues to surpass our expectations.
In addition we reached an efficient manufacturing mode in Eagle Ford.
While we still have further efficiencies and cost reduction goals we have now reached the point of optimal drilling completion and operational logistics in the play.
This year we plan to allocate a larger percentage of EOG's 2014 drilling CapEx budget to the Eagle Ford and drill 520 net wells up from 466 net wells in 2013.
We currently have 26 rigs operating in the play.
In summary EOGs Eagle Ford asset continues to be the largest and most economic horizontal crude oil plays in North America and it's getting better.
We simultaneously increased the EURs reduced cost and through downspacing identified an additional 1 600 net drilling locations.
Although we are increasing the well count this year we still have 12 years of very highly economic crude oil drilling inventory in this single play.
Now I will turn it over to Billy to discuss the Bakken Permian Trinidad end reserves.
Thank you Bill.
During 2013 we made significant progress with our Bakken and Three Forks completions that dramatically improved well productivity and individual EURs.
These enhancements and the ongoing implementation of cost saving measures including the use of EOG sand have turned what was once a mature producing area into a higher rate of return oil growth assets.
We continue to see plenty of opportunity on our Bakken core acreage by bringing the latest technology to this area that was initially sparsely drilled over five years ago.
Recent core wells are the Wayzetta 30-3230H and 31-3230H which began production at 2 510 and 2 540 barrels of oil per day respectively.
We have 59% working interest in these wells.
The Wayzetta 35-1920H had an initial production rate of 2 240 barrels of oil per day with 1.2 million cubic feet a day of rich natural gas.
We have 60% working interest in this Mountrail County well.
Using the same improved completion techniques in our Antelope Extension area we are seeing similar enhanced IP rates and EURs.
The Hawkeye 2-2501H had an initial production rate of 2 075 barrels of oil per day with 3.8 million cubic feet a day of rich natural gas.
We have 80% working interest in this well.
In 2014 we expect to again grow crude oil production.
Our drilling efforts will be localized in these same two areas the Bakken Core and Antelope Extension with the majority of activity in the core.
We will continue to downspace in both areas and plan to operate a six rig drilling program.
We have existing oil and pipeline infrastructure within the core and with the integration of EOG Sand into our Bakken operations we will continue our focus on reducing well cost even further while enhancing the productivity and recovery factor of the field.
We plan to drill 80 net wells this year compared to 54 last year.
EOG's total drilling CapEx budget in Permian will be essentially flat in 2014 from 2013.
The majority of the Permian drilling dollars however will shift from the Midland Basin to our to higher return plays in the Delaware Basin the Leonard and Wolfcamp.
The largest increase in activity will be the Leonard play where recent wells have had excellent rates of return and we are continuing to make progress on our technical understanding of this outstanding play.
The Leonard is EOG's third best play in terms of rate of return.
To date we drilled in A and B zones and have identified additional pay zones in our 73 000 acre net acre position.
During 2014 we plan to develop the A zone with 8 to 10 wells per section.
This base development program in a single zone will drive volume growth for the Leonard.
We have exploration opportunities in other zones on our Leonard acreage and are testing multiple targets in spacing patterns both between wells and also between runs.
Three recent Leonard wells in Lea County New Mexico came online with very strong oil production.
The Vaca 24 Fed Com #5H began production last month at 1 520 barrels of oil per day with 265 barrels per day of NGLs and 1.5 million cubic feet a day of natural gas.
The Vaca 24 Fed Com #6H had an IP rate of 1 380 barrels oil per day with 170 barrels per day of NGLs and 935 MCF per day of natural gas.
We have 89% working interest in these wells.
We plan a much more active year in the Leonard with 40 net wells compared to 17 last year.
In the Delaware Basin Wolfcamp we are gathering microseismic from several wells to further define optimal development for this multi-pay shale play.
During 2014 we plan to test number of spacing patterns across various zones with the goal of maximizing recovery and determining the impact of any communication between wells.
We also plan more active year in this play with 14 net wells.
In Trinidad we expect to be as crude contract takes for full-year we have a development drilling program planned for the second half of the year to maintain stable production in the years following 2014.
I will now address reserve replacement and finding cost.
In total we replaced 264% of production from all sources at a $13.42 per BOE all-in total finding cost.
Proved developed reserves increased 19% and net proved oil reserves increased 28%.
For the 26<sup>th</sup> consecutive year DeGolyer and MacNaughton given independent engineering analysis of our reserves and their estimate was within 5% of our internal estimate.
Their analysis covered about 82% of our proved reserves this year.
Please see the schedules accompanying the earnings press release for the calculation of reserve replacement and finding cost.
I will now turn it back over to Bill.
Thanks Billy.
Regarding new plays we have been saying for some time now that we haven't lost our focus on looking for new domestic liquids plays primarily oil.
In addition to increasing the recovery on our existing plays we continue to look for new prospects and test new ideas.
In our midstream operations we are working with our partner rail companies.
We have a strong emphasis on safety and our crude-by-rail operations.
On our crude-by-rail our crude-by-rail continues to give us flexibility to access markets with premium process and plays a role in the ultimate destination of EOG produced crude.
To summarize our operations EOG has captured the best horizontal oil acreage in North America and our high performance operational teams continued to execute superbly.
Our wells are still getting better unit cost continue to decrease and oil production continues to increase at peer leading growth rates.
EOG has a long life inventory of crude oil and liquids rich drilling prospects with high after tax rates returns.
We continue to focus on delivering high margin oil growth increasing recoverable reserves and existing assets and generating new plays to ensure that EOG remains best-in-class through 2017 and beyond.
I will now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Bill.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $15 million.
For the fourth quarter 2013 total exploration and development expenditures were $1.6 billion excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $93 million.
There were $28 million of acquisitions during the quarter.
For the full year 2013 capitalized interest was $49 million.
For the full year total expiration and development expenditures were $6.7 billion excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligation.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $364 million.
For the full year total capital expenditures for all categories were $7.1 billion excluding acquisitions.
We ended the year below our guidance.
Total acquisitions for the year were $120 million.
During the quarter net cash provided by operating activities exceeded financing and investing cash outflows.
We paid off $400 million bonds that matured in October.
For the year total proceeds from asset sales were $761 million compared to the goal of $550 million.
The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 37% and the deferred tax ratio was 64%.
We announced a dividend increase of 33% and at 2:1 stock split in yesterday's earnings release.
The dividend increase is the largest year-over-year dollars increase in EOG's history.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with earnings press release for the first quarter and full year 2014.
Our CapEx estimate for the full year is $8.1 billion to $8.3 billion excluding acquisitions.
The expiration and development portion excluding facilities will account for 80% of the total CapEx budget.
The largest increase in spending will come from drilling activity primarily in the Eagle Ford and Bakken.
For the first quarter and full year the effective tax rate is estimated to be 35% to 40%.
We have also provided an estimated range of the dollar amount of current taxes that we expect to record during the first quarter and for the full year 2014.
In terms of crude oil hedges for March 2014 we have 181 000 barrels per day hedged at $96.55.
For April 1 through June 30 2014 we have an average of the 168 000 barrels per day hedged at $96.48.
For the second half of 2014 we had 64 000 barrels per day hedged at $95.18.
We have a number of contracts outstanding that could be put to us at various terms.
For the period of April 1 through December 31 2014 we have 10 000 barrels per day of options that could be put to us at approximately $96.60 on or about March 31 2014 if it is advantageous for the counterparty to do so.
For June 1 through August 31 2014 we had 10 000 barrels per day of options that could be put to us at approximately $100 on or about May 30 2014.
For the second half of 2014 we have 118 000 barrels per day of options that could be put to us at approximately $96.64 on or about June 30 2014.
For the first half of 2015 we have 69 000 barrels per day of options that could be put to us at approximately $95.20 on or about December 31 2014.
For natural gas we have 330 000 MMBtu per day hedged at $4.55 per MMBtu for the period March 1 through December 31 2014 excluding unexercised options.
For January 1 through December 31 2015 we have 175 000 MMBtu per day hedged at $4.51 excluding unexercised options.
We also have a number of natural gas contracts that could be put to us at various terms.
If counterparties exercise all such options the notional volume of EOG's existing natural gas derivative contracts will increase by 480 000 MMBtu per day at an average price of $4.63 per MMBtu for each month for the period March 1 through December 31 2014.
For 2015 if counterparties exercise all such options the notional volume of EOG's existing natural gas derivative contracts will increase by 175 000 MMBtu per day at an average price of $4.51 per MMBtu for each month during the period January 1 through December 31 2015.
Now I will turn it back over to Bill.
Thanks Tim.
Now I will provide our views regarding the macro environment and 2014 operations activity.
Regarding oil we are still waiting for the final 2013 EIA U.S.
oil production data but it looks like the rate of growth in 2013 slowed compared to 2012 and we expect this trend to continue in subsequent years.
The October and November EIA monthly data indicates the rate of annualized production growth was approximately 760 000 barrels per day compared to 1.04 million barrels per day for the same period in 2012.
We are still bullish regarding U.S.
oil process because of slowing domestic oil growth and we are not particularly concerned about a surplus of U.S.
light sweet oil.
Regarding North American natural gas prices our long-term view hasn't changed.
We have obviously seen some relief this year due to the multiple shifts in the polar vortex this winter.
We think natural gas prices will stay around the $4.50 level in 2014 and '15.
On the plus side we have taken advantage of some the recent prospects to layer in hedges.
For our 2014 business plan it is as follows.
We plan to focus on high rate of return domestic crude oil growth.
We are targeting 27% oil production growth this year and 11.5% total company growth.
We have increased our CapEx budgets from last year because we have so many high rate of return opportunities to pursue.
The greatest increases are in our highest return plays the Eagle Ford and Bakken.
The amount of CapEx dollars allocated to midstream infrastructure is also increasing.
This year we plan to spend approximately 10% of our total CapEx budget on these types of projects to lay the foundation for future growth and to manage operational costs.
Also for the sixth year in a row we are not growing EOG's North American natural gas production.
This is reflective of our view of the low return on natural gas investments.
We won't drill any dry gas wells in North America during 2014 because we don't see a change in the gas oversupplied picture until the 2017-2018 timeframe.
I want to leave you with some important summary points.
First 2013 was an excellent year for EOG particularly in our three key plays the Eagle Ford Bakken and Leonard.
In the Eagle Ford we moved beyond an assembly line of operation to a high precision manufacturing mode of delivering top quality individual wells.
In the Bakken we created a technical renaissance not only for EOG but also for the industry.
We changed our completion techniques and improved the well productivity.
In the Permian Basin we are shifting activity to the Leonard where we made exceptionally good wells during the second half of 2013.
Our Leonard is our highest rate of return asset in the basin.
Second in terms of capital discipline we boosted our financial returns in 2013 while deleveraging the balance sheet.
We generated strong ROE and ROCE numbers last year 6% and 12% respectively.
We think this is a discriminator in a sector not recognized for financial returns.
Additionally we raised the dividend for the 15<sup>th</sup> time in 15 years.
Third EOG has captured the best horizontal acreage in North America and our higher performance operational teams continued to execute superbly.
In March 2013 EOG became the largest producer of crude oil in the state of Texas and we continue to maintain that position.
Today according to HIS EOG has become the largest onshore crude oil producer in the U.S.
Lower 48.
With our large high-quality drilling inventory we expect EOG to be one of the largest crude oil producers in the U.S.
by 2017.
Fourth we ended 2013 with a strong balance sheet posted peer-leading oil growth rates and increased our high margin oil opportunities set to drill bit.
Finally the increased budget and increased dividend rate are a function of EOGs confidence in our long-term business plan.
It's the same business plan we have always had capture the best assets grow organically and focus on returns.
Thanks for listening.
Now we will go to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We will go first to Leo Mariani with RBC.
Hey guys.
Can you talk a little bit more about the Eagle Ford in terms of some of the downspacing initiatives I guess you talked about in average of 40-acre spacing across your position here.
Would you expect to see some interference at that level and is it possible for you guys to quantify that at all? Yes.
Thanks Leo.
That's a good question.
The downspacing that we have done across the field we found that has been the spacing is very variable due to different geology different faulting situations at this different things across the field that we have to deal with.
Some places you know we can drill wells as close to maybe 30 acres to 35 acres per well and in some places it's more like 50 to 60 and 65 acres per well so it is quite highly variable.
The number of wells that we have again were 7 200 total wells are based on actual well locations that we have put on the map in regard to the geology the individual geology at each unit and the configuration of the leases so these are not spreadsheet numbers.
As far as the interference between wells there is some interference in some areas and in some places there are not interference so again it's really highly variable and that we have been able to overcome the interference and increase the well EURs with our frac technology.
So the frac technology has definitely enhanced the productivity of the wells and it has enhanced the EUR per well.
So we have quite a bit of confidence that the average EUR for the 7 200 wells we have is 450 MBOE per well.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
I guess just jumping over to your thoughts on oil marketing.
I guess there is some concern out there among investors that too much oil is coming through the Gulf Coast over the next couple of years.
Can you talk at all about your optionality in terms of moving oil going around? Are you guys able to access East and West Coast markets as well with your oil? Yes Leo.
Our crude by rail system gives us a lot of flexibility and we believe that will come in to play as we go forward.
We have established markets in the East and West Coast but really our prime markets still remain on the Gulf Coast or LLS prices and an increasing WTI prices.
So as we have seen just really over the last few months there's been some variances in the differentials between WTI and LLS prices and we have been able to take advantage of that and we have been switching back and forth.
So again our crude by rail system gives us a lot of flexibility to get our oil to the highest priced markets.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
Thanks guys.
We will go next to Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Bill I wondered if I could go back to the 460 EUR average.
I am not sure how to ask the question eloquently.
So I will stumble through probably.
But what I am trying to understand is that's obviously an average and I am guessing there is some variability across the play.
So what I am trying to get is where are you concentrating the drilling inventory in the first part of the 12 years backlog you have got.
In other words are you drilling better wells first on average or the lesser wells will be later on in the program? And if so how should we think about your medium-term growth outlook? Then I have got a follow-up please.
Yes Doug.
That's a very good question.
Our drilling is very well equally spaced and really as we look forward we need to be thinking about the Eagle Ford as one play because the Western wells and the Eastern wells are relatively same in the average EUR per well and there is a little bit of variability but there is really not much difference across the whole play.
So whether we drill in the West or we drill in the East our well results we believe will be very consistent going forward and that is certainly not front-end loaded with the best wells in the East and then later on we won't drill wells down the road.
So I think you can look at the 12 year inventory we have is very strong and very consistent and we will have good results every year because of that.
Okay that's very clear.
Thanks for that.
Then my follow-up is really on the midstream spending.
I know you guys have said often the drilling consideration short-term at least to maybe do something structurally by way of an MLP or something like that but given the scale of your standing I just wondered if I could ask you to frame your latest thoughts on that has it even changed and if not why is that not a thought that EOG would be interested in? And I will leave it at that.
Thanks.
Yes Doug.
On midstream we are very very selective on how we spend our midstream dollars and the midstream dollars we have allocated this year and particularly have given us a very strong rate of return and are really focused on getting our oil to the market and decreasing our future operational cost and transportation costs.
We are not at all interested in working on forming new MLP companies or making the company very complicated.
We want to keep the company financially and structurally simple as we go forward.
So it is easy to understand.
And so our midstream is really just to enhance EOG's acreage positions and getting our products to market and keeping our cost low as we go forward I guess if I may why then wouldn't you include the midstream cost when you look at your well economics? Well I mean certainly the midstream costs are part of the whole picture but really we are really focused on getting the wells drilled and getting the direct return of those the wells at a maximum and we are focused on that.
Then we are always looking at the whole picture EOG has a lot of scale and were able to midstream dollars down to a minimum when we have a scale.
We are really focused on the company on returns and increasing our ROE and ROEC numbers so midstream really helps us do that.
Appreciate the answers though.
Thank you very much.
We will go next to Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
If I could go back to the Eagle Ford spacing question particularly the average being 40 acres and some other operators in the play are testing - they haven't confirmed - they are testing just down to 175 feet which would get you close to about 20 acre spacing so I am wondering can you share what the close offset you guys maybe have planned '14 and what supposedly you have done today? Yes Charles.
I think we have done some in the 300-foot range and that's 200-foot maybe down to 200 feet.
Again we push them pretty close together and the goal of course is to always to maximize the NPV of the acreage.
As you push them too close together you could start destroying the value so these pilot programs that we put in and tested have given us a pretty solid understanding of the interference between wells and the spacing between wells in terms distance between wells so we feel pretty solid at this point that on an average 40 acres is probably the optimal spacing pattern.
Got it.
Thanks for that detail Bill.
Shifting over to the Permian your slides are very hopeful.
It's obvious you look - cut by the Leonard play is a more attractive than the Wolfcamp play because you are pretty classy there but but I am wondering if your 2014 plans for the Wolfcamp you might be able to go North and East from Reeves to perhaps in Worden I think where you have seen higher oil cuts in that Wolfcamp play and if that's an option for you it is part of your 2014 plans.
Yes.
For the Delaware Wolfcamp our acreage is located kind of central Reeves and we do have some acreage up to the North and to the East in the northern part of Loving County and then in the Lea County that we believe are prospective for the Delaware Wolfcamp.
Your correct it does get a bit oilier as you move that way so into in 2014 we are really probably just focused on the Central Reeves County area.
Then will be testing additional the Wolfcamp potential maybe later in the year in 2014 and in the 2015 as we go forward but we are trying to work the play technically and increase the oil percentages as we go forward.
Great.
Thanks.
We will stay tuned on that.
We will take our next question from Matt Portillo with TPH.
Good morning.
Just two quick questions for me I was wondering if you can give an update to your Bakken downspacing test and how you I think about the upside to your inventory depths.
Then I have a quick follow-up after that.
Yes Matt.
On our Bakken we are continuing with 160 acre downspacing and we are studying very intensely the possible interference between the new wells in the existing older wells.
Obviously the new wells had come in extremely good.
We are very pleased with the results so far in our downspacing efforts and we will give some guidance on what all this means later down the road.
We haven't given any time commitment on that.
We really want to make sure that we technically understand where we are going and what this really means to recovery for our acreage.
Great and then just a quick follow-up in regards to your out Midland Basin Wolfcamp position.
You have a nice footprint there although the asset looks like it doesn't compete on a rate of return basis within the portfolio today.
How do you guys think about that asset from a long-term perspective in terms of it s strategic nature in your portfolio? Yes we want to certainly hold on to it.
We are making some progress there in the Midland Basin.
Our long-term view is that we can continue to improve the results there establish the right spacing patterns and continue to reduce costs and also increase the well productivity and really focus on increasing the rate of return there.
So we are going to leave it in the portfolio right now and see if we can get it up to the point where it can make its way back into our high return inventory.
Thank you.
We will go next to Amir Arif with Stifel.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
First question really on the Leonard Wolfcamp.
I know its early days there but I was just curious where do you think the 2% to 3% recovery factor that you are putting out there could go to as you better touch the downspacing and the timing around testing the downspacing to get a comfort on resources? Yes Amir.
On our Leonard play we are still doing some testing there as you can imagine on spacing and testing different target zones to really understand what the productivity in the long-term performance is going to be.
We obviously are seeing improvements in that.
So we are optimistic of what we might see on improvements in recovery factor but we still haven't quantified that yet.
That's still a work in progress.
So we will provide more data on that once we have it fully evaluated.
Yes.
Just a follow-up question on that CapEx the $900 million for facilities.
Can you give us some more color in terms of what type of facilities and where that CapEx is going? Yes.
So two thirds of that is going to be in the Eagle Ford and that on lease facilities with us drilling more wells this year and we are going ahead and putting it in our oil and gas gathering lines.
Put the new oil on pipeline.
It saves us quite a lot on our transportation.
Then we are putting it in an oil storage and pipeline facility there for the West.
Gas processing facilities SWD systems water reuse facilities and that also includes artificial lift.
We are putting that on quite a number of wells this year.
So all that is just to reduce transportation our LOE realize higher prices all long-term benefits for earnings.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Hi Bill.
In terms of the increase in the Eagle Ford EUR and resource what drove your decision to increase the EUR per well in that resource at this time? And then what could make that EUR or the total reserves go up in the future? Yes Joe.
The EUR per well increase was certainly up a lot of strong historical data.
We have over 1 200 producing wells in the play right now.
And then we have done extensive pilot testing on each one of these downspacing patterns and through our completion technology we have seen dramatic increases in initial rates per well and then the shape of the decline curve really has not changed.
It's relatively the same shape.
It's just that the well's initial rates have improved over time with better their completions.
So that gives a better total EUR.
When you have long-term production you have enough data like we do to establish and have a lot of confidence in that.
So we have got a lot of confidence in that and as we go forward we are hopeful that we will be able to continue to improve the well productivity but we certainly have not proven that yet but we are going to obviously continue to work the technology.
We are never going to give up and we are never going quit trying new ideas or new things.
So we are in that process right now.
We will just see how time will tell .As we go forward we will see how it all turns out.
Great.
Thanks for that.
And then on your gas production forecast for 2014 you are now looking at a decline in gas production a short time ago you were actually looking over the next few years for a flat to modestly up profile for natural gas so what changed in terms of your forecast for natural gas? Yes.
Joe we look at our drilling portfolio and we have continued to shift money to the higher return plays so one of the things we have been reducing is some of our combo plays so we continue to reduce dollars from the combo plays which are more gassy because of just a bit lower return than our high return oil plays so that's really the shift that we have seen in the gas profile.
Great.
Thank you very much.
We will go next to Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Yes.
Bill some other operators in Eagle Ford you talked about the upper and lower Eagle Ford intervals being distinct zones within the play.
Are you seeing the same trend cross some of your acreage? Yes Pearce.
We do have that we have recognized that on a decent portion of our acreage and that's certainly an option that were looking at an exploring and may do some testing on that as we go forward to see if the upper part of Eagle Ford specifically has not been affected and contacted with the existing frac technology that we are using so we have got that in mind and we are going to be working on that.
Great.
Then my follow-up Bill in Slide 31 of your presentation you highlight your gas acreage.
While I know right now you are focusing on oil because of the better rates of return if you were to turn your attention to gas which of these areas would receive EOGs primary attention? The best acreage we have are in really probably some of the more combo-ish acreage.
The Haynesville combo play is a really strong rate of return play for us.
Also the highest quality dry gas that we have is certainly would be in Bradford County in Marcellus.
Then we drill a few selective wells in South Texas in the Frio and Vicksburg area.
There are good wet gas and combo and also very high rate wells and give us high rate of return so those are three areas that probably will be high on the list.
Thank you Bill.
We will go next to Bob Brackett with Bernstein.
Hi.
I will do a follow-up.
You mentioned Frio Vicksburg wet gas wells.
Are those conventional-type sand targets or there are any sort of shale plays you are chasing down there? Yes Bob.
Those are really conventional plays.
They are the typical Gulf Coast.
[Nanodarcy].
Yes.
I would say they are mostly nanodarcy top reservoirs and so they are very high rate very very specific prospects not regional prospects.
They are very specific.
Yes.
Then following your language of captured the best asset is one of your strategic goals.
Can you give us some flavor of what you might be doing this year next year against bad objectives? Yes Bob.
We have a nice working list of new prospect potential that we are working all the time and we are very very focused of course right now on the oily-type plays and we are focused on only on plays that would be additive to our portfolio so our portfolio is such a high return for portfolio that for a new play that work itself into our system we are targeting only plays that we think that could generate after-tax rates of return greater than 50% so we are being very selective on that.
We have a nice list working so we are taking her time to test those and to evaluate those to make sure that they are the kind of quality plays that we want to invest money in as we go forward but we are confident that EOG is going to continue to be a leader in generating new plays as we go forward so that will be certainly a nice part of additional resource potential for the company as we go forward.
Thanks.
We will go next to Joe Magner with Macquarie.
Good morning.
With all the updates provided on the Eagle Ford I noticed that references to specific recovery factors weren't in the presentation any more.
I was just curious with what you are seeing and understanding how the reservoir now are there any changes to your access of original oil plays and/or those recovery rates? Yes Joe.
That's a very good question.
The recovery factor is a work in progress and we are certainly not seeing any decrease of any oil in plays.
We are learning about these resource reservoirs.
We are learning more all the time.
Of course there is no textbook on them.
So we are trying to get a better understanding of that as we go forward and as we learn more about that we will be able to update you with a bit more stronger technical information.
Okay and then I guess just to circle back on the spacing and the prospectivity of your Eagle Ford oil acreage.
The final plot of 40 acres to that entire position it seems like there would be more locations than what you have provided.
Just curious how you are thinking about risking and the delineation of that acreage position and if there is more work to be done over time? Just wanted to make sure I got that discussions right in my mind.
Yes Joe.
The 7 200 locations that we have announced or talked about are actual sticks on the map.
So they are very specific locations not a spreadsheet calculation at all and those are all very firm locations.
As we look at our acreage there are other areas of our acreage that could be prospective and those areas at this moment we feel like fall below our rate return cut off.
And although they would be productive they are not weighed in our portfolio right now.
So we have put a cutoff on rate of return anything less than the 60% effect rate of return is not included in the 7 200 locations.
So there could be additional upside.
We are hopeful that we will be able to continue to reduce costs and improve well productivity in all the areas in a specific unit in the areas that are a bit more of return.
Okay.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Good morning.
Just speculate your midstream CapEx this year.
How much does the spending this year impact 2014 in your realize pricing in OpEx guidance? And then should we assume further efficiency gains in 2015? Yes but some of this effect 2014 certainly.
When we talked about our gathering lines here and on lease and our artificial lift but you are right David what we are doing here is going to have impact certainly beyond 2014.
A portion of this share is midstream and also even our sand facilities because we are seeing that yes as we drill new wells we have a need for additional sand and we are just ensuring that we have a long-term low cost sand available to EOG.
That was a perfect segue to my second question.
So you saved $500 000 a well in Eagle Ford for using your own sand roughly.
As you take your sand to the Bakken this year and then the Permian next year how much would you save per well using sand there the EOG sand? Yes.
We think that we are going to be looking at the same sort of savings and we are working towards having us self-sourcing all of our sand for the Bakken.
We are doing some of that now in the Permian.
We believe we will be able to do that pretty well across the board for EOG.
Okay.
Thanks.
That was my two questions.
We will take our next question from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Good morning Bill.
Hello Arun.
Bill I just wanted to talk a little bit about the increase in the Eagle Ford resource.
You added I believe 1 600 incremental well locations.
Can you maybe quantify what drove that between downspacing versus opening up new parts of the plays you have done additional delineation drilling? Yes.
That's a good question.
I am not saying the majority of it is really due to downspacing at this time and that is and something we took great care and technically and use multiple downspacing pilot to determine these additional locations so we found out certainly that it's very variable across the field but the average is about 40-acre spacing between wells and that gives us the optimal net present value.
We have a slide in the in the IR slides that show how that the net present value or per acre basis has increased over time as we downspaced and added additional potential so it's a really good solid number but really most of the year increase is downspacing.
Okay.
Then Bill as you shift towards '14 and '15 is the development plan now going to be just 16 wells per section? Is that how you plan to developing? Well it is variable across the field so it's not a standard thing.
It really varies from lease-to-lease but certainly I think on an average 40 acres space is that we are proceeding ahead at this time and that looks like that will generate the best returns and the best NPV.
Okay.
My follow-up is just on the Leonard.
I believe you guys mentioned optimism to do 8 to 10 wells per in a interval? Could you just comment on some of your early appraisal something in the Leonard? Yes.
It's a good question.
Saying it's still early is a good point because we are still testing multiple spacing patterns there as well.
We do believe eight is certainly a very achievable number.
We are going to be testing 10 A zone and we are still have additional zones there to test as well so we are very encouraged about what we are seeing in the Leonard play based on our latest results and so were optimistic that the spacing pattern will prove itself out here as we go forward.
This does conclude today's question and answer session.
I would like to turn the call back to Bill Thomas for any additional or closing remarks.
I just want to thank everybody for joining the call this morning and we look forward to a great 2014.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources First Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Tim Driggers.
Please go ahead.
Thanks April.
Good morning.
I am Tim Driggers CFO.
Thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing first quarter 2014 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release in Investor Relations page on our website.
Participating on the call this morning are Bill Thomas Chairman and CEO Gary Thomas Chief Operating Officer Billy Helms Executive VP Exploration and Production Mario Baldwin Vice President IR.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website yesterday evening and we included second quarter and full year guidance in yesterday's press release.
This morning we will discuss topics in the following order.
I will first discuss our 2014 first quarter net income and discretionary cash flow and then Bill Thomas and Billy Helms will review operational results I’ll then review EOG's financials and capital structure.
Finally Bill Thomas will cover EOG's macro view and hedge position and provide concluding remarks.
As outlined in our press release for the first quarter 2014 EOG reported net income of $661 million or $1.21 per share.
EOG's first quarter 2014 adjusted non-GAAP net income which eliminates the mark-to-market impact in certain non-recurring items as outlined in the press release was $768 million or $1.40 per share.
Non-GAAP discretionary cash flow for the first quarter was $2.2 billion.
At March 31 2014 the debt-to-total cap ratio was 27%.
Due to a buildup of cash on the balance sheet the net debt-to-total cap ratio was 21% down from 23% at December 31 2013.
I will now turn it over to Bill Thomas to discuss operational results and key players.
Thanks Tim.
We started 2014 delivering excellent first quarter results; our total oil production was up 42% year over year.
In the US oil production was up 45% sequentially.
Total company production increased 18% compared with the first quarter of 2013.
Based on these first quarter production result and our confidence in the remainder of the year we are raising our full year 2014 oil production growth estimate from 27% to 29% and total company total growth estimates from 11.5% to 12%.
Our actual unit cost came in lower than guidance particularly for LOE and transportation with DD&amp;A also at the low end.
In yesterday’s press release we announced we’re adding 735 high rate of return net drilling locations in the sweet spots at four plays with estimated reserve potential of 770 million barrels of oil equivalent gross or 400 million barrels of oil equivalent net to EOG.
We’ve identified approximately 10 solid years of drilling inventories in these four plays.
Two of these plays are in the DG basin primarily in Laramie County Wyoming and extending into Weld County Colorado.
I’ll first discuss the Codell play this is a sandstone play that we have thoroughly defined geologically and with recent horizontal drilling results we’ve identified the best acreage and are making very repeatable consistent wells.
We have 72 000 net prospective acres in the sweet spot of this play in Laramie County Wyoming where we’ve identified 225 net well locations with estimated reserve potential of a 125 million barrels of oil equivalent net to EOG.
Last year we drilled three net Codell wells and this year we completed four net wells all of them have long nine thousand foot laterals and IP’s in excess of 1000 barrels of oil per day.
The wells average 78% 36 degree API oil we noted a few of these wells in our press release this year we plan to drill 26 net wells these wells had an expected average EUR of 695 mboe per well.
Once we optimize well productivity through EOG technology and sourcing of completion materials and meet our target well cost of 7.3 million this play should yield after-tax rates of returns greater than 100%.
The second play in the DJ Basin is the Niobrara shale in Laramie County Wyoming and Weld County Colorado where we have 50 000 net acres in the sweet spot of this play.
We have studied the Niobrara for a number of years and have found this part of the basin as quite consistent.
We drilled three net wells in the Niobrara last year.
The reserves are 71% 35 degree API oil with the expected average growth EURs of 430 MBoe per well.
Target well cost for our 9 000 foot lateral are $9 million due to larger fracs and yield a direct a-tax rate of return of approximately 40%.
We are currently completing our first long lateral.
As we've done in all our resource plays we expect to improve well productivity and decrease well cost and improve the rates of return on this play.
We see plenty of room for upside.
We've identified 235 net drilling locations with estimated net reserve potential of 85 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
We plan to drill a total of 39 net wells in the DJ this year 26 in the Codell formation and 13 in the Niobrara.
We are currently operating a two rig drilling program and plan to add a third rig later this month.
We expect crude oil production growth from these two plays beginning this year.
We also highlighted two plays in Powder River Basin.
In the Powder River Parkman we have 30 000 net prospected acres of high quality play.
Last year we drilled 10 net wells and this year so far we completed six net wells.
Initial production rates from shorter length laterals exceed 1 000 barrels of oil per day; and the 90 day cumulative oil production looks good.
We expect results from longer laterals would be even better.
With 7 300 foot lateral wells have expected average growth EURs of 850 MBoe per well of which 69% is 41 degree API oil.
With 5 million completed well cost direct after-tax rate of returns exceed 100% making the Parkman the highest rate of return play of the four discussed today.
We are already seeing improved drilling times and cost savings with regard to completion materials.
Estimated net potential reserves are 75 million barrels of oil equivalent.
We have identified 115 net drilling locations.
Much like the Niobrara EOG has been drilling in the Turner formation for several years.
So this play is not so new but our results have improved significantly.
Today we have a much better understanding of the geology in the area and are now drilling in the best areas of the play.
Through longer laterals and focused targeting our wells are improving they are yielding higher EURs and higher oil mix.
The wells we drilled in 2011 had 26% oil mix versus 34% today.
Last year we drilled eight net wells; the lateral lengths in the Turner will vary from 4 600 to 9 000 feet.
The average gross EUR for an 8 200 foot lateral is 860 MBoe per well.
The returns here average 100% direct after-tax with a 7.5 million completed well cost.
The estimated potential reserves are 115 million barrels of oil equivalent net on our 63 000 net acres in the Turner.
We have identified 160 net drilling locations.
Running a two rig program we plan to drill a total of 34 net wells in the Powder River this year; 28 in the Parkman formations and six in the Turner.
Regarding explorations we continue to actively search for additional new plays.
As we’ve previously mentioned our new discovery the size of our estimated 3.2 billion barrels equivalent net Eagle Ford potential reserves would be difficult to repeat.
However the plays announced in yesterday's press release are significant and three of the four plays are oil plays with very strong direct a-tax rate of return.
We are currently completing our first long lateral in the Niobrara and are optimistic on the overall economics of this play.
We plan to continue to add these types of high rate of return bolt-on oil plays to our portfolio.
We’ve set a high threshold at EOG with plays like the Eagle Ford Bakken and Leonard.
Other plays that compete for capital require the same rate of return metrics.
The plays we’ve announced today are certainly in that category.
In the Eagle Ford we’ve increased activity compared to last year.
We’re on track to drill 520 net wells this year.
We're currently running 26 rigs in the play and the Eagle Ford was the biggest contributor to our first quarter oil growth and the reason we exceeded our first quarter oil production guidance.
We continue to make improvements in well productivity and as our press release cited a number of recent Eagle Ford wells have IP rates in excess of 4 000 barrels of oil per day.
The Eagle Ford continues to be our largest growth asset with the highest after-tax rates of return.
By mid-year the vast majority of our drilling obligations for 2014 to hold our 564 000 net acreage position in the crude oil window will be essentially complete giving us much more flexibility to efficiently manage our drilling and production operations.
We modeled our Eagle Ford production for the next 10 years.
If we increase this year's 520 net wells by a modest amount and hold that number flat through 2024 our Eagle Ford oil volumes increase every year.
The Eagle Ford will draw a free cash flow this year and every year through 2024.
In our model we haven't assumed any improvements in well productivity or well cost.
We've maintained the status quo.
We’ve talked about the 6 000 net remaining locations on our acreage.
We used a 60% direct after-tax rate of return cut off point in moving these locations into our inventory.
We still have a large number of locations that don't meet this threshold but we continue to improve make improvements in well productivity and economics and are working to move these locations into our drilling inventory.
I'll now turn it over to Billy Helms to discuss other areas.
Thanks Bill.
Last year we increased the drilling density in the Bakken from two to four wells per spacing unit.
Due to higher tighter spacing and configuration of leases the majority of our 2013 drilling in the Core and Antelope Extension was based on 1 300 feet between wells.
The successful 1 300 foot spacing across our acreage we are now testing 700 feet and tighter spacing between wells in the Core and Antelope Extension areas.
Hoping to repeat what EOG achieved in the Eagle Ford we will continually test downspacing until we've maximized the net present value in the overall play.
We are early in the life of these tests and we will monitor production history to determine optimal spacing for development.
If tighter spacing proves successful a number of years would be added to our Bakken drilling inventory.
The majority of our 2014 development program is in the Core area where we already have pad drilling and completion infrastructure.
We are currently operating six rigs in the Williston Basin with plans to add a seventh this summer.
During the first quarter we completed a number of wells on our Core acreage the Wayzetta 28-1424H 29-1424H and 38-1424H were completed at initial oil rates of 1 060 1 295 and 1 000 barrels of oil per day with 105 125 and 100 barrels per day of NGLs respectively.
These wells were drilled off the same pad.
Less than 2 000 feet from these wells the Wayzetta 39-1424H and 40-1424H were completed at 1 760 and 2 220 barrels of oil per day with 170 and 215 barrels per day of NGLs respectively.
In the Permian our 2014 activity is focused in the Delaware Basin where we've more than doubled the number of wells we plan to drill this year compared to last year's total.
In the Leonard Shale we continue to test various spacing patterns across our acreage to determine the optimal development program.
Recent test were drilled with 660 feet or 80 acres and 430 feet spacing 60 acres between the wells.
The Dillon 31 number 1H number 2H and number 3H were drilled with 430 feet between wells.
This is our most dense same zone spacing test to-date.
The wells came online with 1 225 1 395 and 1 315 barrels of oil per day respectively.
Based on these successful results we plan to test tighter spacing both between wells and across zones throughout our 73 000 net acre position.
We are currently testing 32 acre spacing across different zones.
Through an active development program we continue to better define our acreage.
In the Delaware Wolfcamp we drilled eight wells this year.
The wells produced a lower initially oil rate than the Leonard but had a very flat production profile which generates a very strong after-tax rate of return.
To-date we have tested three liquids-rich zones within the Delaware Basin Wolfcamp and are testing various spacing patterns as tight as 50 acres between wells as we develop these zones.
We're seeing improved well productivity in both the Leonard and Wolfcamp plays.
Because we've now moved into development mode our drilling operations are more efficient resulting in decreased drilling days and cost.
We're currently operating a four rig program in the basin.
Completion costs have also decreased with the integration of EOGs sourced sand and other materials.
Further enhancements in our geoscience and completions work continue to improve our two Delaware Basin plays and we are confident.
We realize ongoing improvements and additional success in the Basin.
In Trinidad we have a three well development drilling program planned for 2014 which will allow us to maintain flat natural gas production in later years.
In the East Irish Sea the Conwy prospect is still expected to be online in late 2014.
I'll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Billy.
For the first quarter capitalized interest was $14.2 million.
Total cash expiration and development expenditures were $1.8 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $166 million.
EOG made $4 million of acquisitions during the quarter.
During the first quarter net cash provided by operating activities exceeded financing and investing cash outflows.
At the end of March total debt outstanding was $5.9 billion.
At March 31 we had $1.7 billion of cash on hand.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter was 36% and the deferred tax-rate ratio was 63%.
Yesterday we included guidance table with the earnings press release for the second quarter and full year 2014.
For the second quarter and full year the effective tax rate is estimated to be 35% to 40%.
We have also provided an estimated range of the dollar amount of current taxes that we expect to record during the second quarter and for the full year.
Now I'll turn it back to Bill to provide EOG's views regarding the macro-environment hedging and operations.
Thanks Tim.
With regards to oil we believe we are in a continued tight supply demand situation globally.
Last year the U.S.
was the largest oil growth area in the world.
However the rate of oil growth in the U.S.
is beginning to slow and 2014 non-OPEC supplies have been revised downward while global demand for oil from non-OECD countries continues to increase.
Therefore we expect to see strong oil processed for the remainder of this year barring a global recession.
Regarding North America gas taking into account current store levels and assuming normal weather we expect prices to remain stable in the $4.50 to $5 range due to summer of 2014.
This is with a caveat that E&amp;P companies stay disciplined at these gas prices and don't ramp up drilling activity.
Once we enter the storage withdrawal season we expect to see upward pressure on gas prices.
Late next year the first LNG plant at Sabine Pass is scheduled to begin exporting natural gas.
This could signal the beginning of a structural change in natural gas demand.
In 2016 a number of new petrochemical plants utilizing natural gas feedstock are expected to be commissioned the remainder of the LNG commission plants are scheduled for start-up in ‘18.
For May 2014 EOG has crude oil financial price swap contracts in place for 181 000 barrels of oil per day at a weighted average price of 96.55 per barrel.
For June 2014 EOG has crude oil financial price swap contracts in place for 171 000 barrels of oil per day at a weighted average price of 96.35 per barrel.
For the period July 1 through December 31 2014 EOG has crude oil financial price swap contracts in place for 74 000 barrels of oil per day at a weighted average price of 95.37 per barrel.
These numbers exclude options that are exercisable by our counterparties.
For the period June 1 through December 31 2014 EOG has natural gas financial price swap contracts in place for 330 000 million British thermal units per day at a weighted average price of 4.55 per million British thermal units.
For the period January 1 through December 31 2015 EOG has natural gas financial price swap contracts in place for 175 000 MMBtu per day at a weighted average price of $4.51 per MMBtu.
These numbers exclude options that are exercisable by our counterparties.
As it relates to EOG and the overall macro environment EOG's marketing and midstream investments again prove invaluable in the first quarter.
In the U.S.
EOG realizations average $1.97 over West Texas Intermediate index process.
However we continue to sell the majority of our oil index of LLS pricing.
Now let me conclude there are five important takeaways from this call.
First EOG continues to demonstrate its ability to organically grow.
Yesterday we announced the addition of 735 high rate of return net drilling locations with 10 years of drilling inventory from the sweet spots of four high quality high oil content onshore U.S.
plays.
This is proof of our very disciplined approach to adding new plays.
First we identify the potential.
Second we capture the acreage.
Third we apply technology to the play until results meet our rate of return criteria.
What's significant is that these are predominantly oil plays that compares favorably with our current highest rate of return plays.
Our goal is to increase EOG's ROE and ROCE and by adding these higher rate of return plays we are doing so.
Second we increased our oil production growth target for the year from 27% to 29%.
We've said all along that EOG has the best horizontal crude oil assets in the U.S.
and they continue to deliver.
Third the Eagle Ford continues to demonstrate improvements in well productivity from ongoing refinements and completion techniques.
In modeling production from the Eagle Ford we are on a growth track for the next 10 years and I want to repeat in modeling production from the Eagle Ford we are on a growth track for the next 10 years before we even begin to see production level out.
Fourth we are testing additional downspacing patterns in the Bakken Leonard and Wolfcamp plays.
We will continue to test downspacing until we’ve reached maximum optimization for each of these plays.
To wrap it up EOG turned in another outstanding quarter.
Our U.S.
oil plays continue to deliver.
We continue to make improvements and completions even in our most mature plays the Eagle Ford and Bakken.
EOG is running like a finely tuned high performance engine.
Thanks for listening and now we’ll go to Q&amp;A.
Thank you (Operator Instructions) and we’ll first hear from Doug Leggate at Bank of America – Merrill Lynch.
Hi good morning everybody I love the pronunciation on these calls but thanks for all the color Bill on the new plays I guess my question is on Slide 9 in your presentation.
You show how they stack up on a relative basis with the IRR.
So I guess what I’m really trying to understand is how should we think about capital allocation here as we go forward as you grow your cash flow? And specifically I wonder if you could address the 60% threshold in the Eagle Ford that you haven't included in your inventory.
What's it going to take to get those into a competitive position and how will that theoretically change your capital allocation? Then I've got a follow-up please.
Yes Doug yes on the capital allocation as we go forward we've given guidance in the past and we want to reiterate this at number one the first priority is to the dividend and we want to continue our 15-year history of a healthy dividend increase.
Next the focus is on reinvesting that capital back into the highest rate of return plays and now we have more of those to offer up.
And first certainly the Eagle Ford is the highest rate of return play we have and so the biggest amount of capital will go to that.
The Bakken Three Forks next the Leonard the Delaware Basin Leonard and now we have opportunities to reinvest at high returns in the DJ Codell the Parkman and Turner play.
So that's where we will focus our capital as we go forward.
On the Eagle Ford and the remaining inventory that we haven't included because it has not made our 60% a-tax rate of return cutoff we are focused on that and we have a pretty -- could be a pretty significant number of wells that we can drill and we're doing like we do on all of our plays we're working on the cost to reduce the cost as we go forward.
I think most importantly we continue to see improvements in the well completions in the frac technology and so we're hopeful that we go forward that those wells will get those returns up into the -- above 60% and down the road as the years go down the road we’ll be able to include those in our inventory.
So the reason we haven't listed those really right now is part of our 7 200 well locations is we're just not really focused on those.
We're not drilling a lot of those right now so we just didn't include them.
My follow-up hopefully is quite quick.
I assume by the fact that you've revealed these four additional plays that you're done leasing and I'm just curious as to -- do you have any additional opportunities to expand your position or have you moved on from those now in terms of new acreage and I'll leave it there? Yeah on the new plays I don’t think -- we wouldn't talk about them unless we had felt like that we captured the sweet spots.
We did a very thorough geological evaluation and we have a lot of data and we have really narrowed down the acreage to the what we believe are the highest return areas of the play.
So the acreage numbers listed for each play are really the sweet spots where we think we'd have the best chance to make the best wells.
And so we think we've captured that and there is probably additional zones or probably additional areas that would be productive but we're really focused on the sweet spots and we have those captured.
Appreciate the answers thanks Bill.
Next we’ll hear from Leo Mariani of RBC.
Hey guys you made some interesting comments about the Eagle Ford here.
Wanted to delve a bit more into your comment about holding the Eagle Ford by production by mid-2014; once you guys are able to achieve that what type of efficiency gains do you think you'll be able to capture through the drilling program.
Maybe you can kind of speak to how you might manage development differently post that.
Yeah Leo in the first quarter and then some in the second quarter we drilled a lot of retention wells that means it's kind of the first wells on a unit to hold that acreage.
And as we have completed that process as we complete that process it gives us the flexibility to go back in and really focus on each unit and begin to pad drill drill those on pads multiple wells on pads and again optimize our costs and then to focus on making the better wells and getting the spacing right and the completions right.
And just able to I think have more efficiency and perform better as we go forward.
Any kind of sort of big picture or quantification could we see 5% to 10% efficiency gain as a result over the next few years?  Yeah Leo I'm going to let Gary Thomas address that question.
Yes Leo with this now having the majority of our acreage HBP here second half and ongoing not having to spend money on roads location quite so much.
Also the facilities gathering all of that will be much reduced.
It just improves our overall operations.
We've drilled some of these wells in as little as 5.3 days so our days per well will continue to decline with pad drilling.
So we'll see certainly the 5% to 10% cost reduction.
Okay that’s helpful.
And I guess just quickly on the DJ Basin here you obviously talked about some sweet spots.
I guess historically there has been a decent amount of variability in parts of the DJ in both the Codell and the Niobrara.
I guess you kind of laid out some of the wells that you guys have drilled here.
What are you guys using for well controls in your programs are there other industry wells out there and other data that you’re seeing that convinces you that the acreage position you’ve laid out are not all that variable at this point? Yes Leo we are quite a bit of sub-surfaced well data.
With this about 130 wells that are located near our acreage or on our acreage that have defined these sweet spots in the Codell and in the Niobrara also.
And so we believe you’re correct.
The DJ Basin historically has been very variable so there are sweet spots that really kind of set up by the basin architecture and it varies.
We really believe with our good results that we’ve had from the drilling in this area and with our geologic mapping that that we have a spot -- sweet spot that will give us very consistent results.
So that's why we’re focused on these areas.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Wanted to try to jack that up a little some of the macro comments you made with just how you're thinking about your investment and growth at the EOG level.
Maybe I’ll start with gas here first.
The outlook you delivered I felt like is a little more bullish on natural gas than what you’ve delivered previously.
Obviously weather has probably played a role in that.
You highlighted that it is contingent on producers been disciplined.
Given your free cash flow and the gas the acreage you identify on one of your slides how does EOG stay disciplined and what would it take if anything to allocate some capital to gas not necessarily taking out of oil but just allocating more capital to gas? Yes Brian I think we're mildly bullish on near-term gas that we think it will be in $4.50 to $5 range and we are really not prepared and we really don't want to invest any additional money at this time in any dry gas drilling.
The reason is because we want to really see what the long-term gas price is going to do and that's going to depend a lot on what operators do at $4.50 and $5 gas prices.
There's so much gas potential out there that it could easily drill a lot of wells and the price of gas would decrease.
So we really want to wait and be patient on that.
You're right we have tremendous amounts of very high quality gas assets and we really would need $5.50 or a better price and we would need to believe that that $5.50 or better price would hang in there for multiple years before we'd even think about drilling dry gas.
Got it thanks and my follow-up is going to oil big picture you highlighted you're accelerating oil production per year on a barrel a day basis.
I think it’s Slide 14 of your presentation the midpoint of this year's guidance is about 64 000 barrels a day of growth.
If we exclude the impact of the Conwy project do you expect that this level will continue to accelerate in future years and how does that juxtapose with your macro your more optimistic macro view in terms of US light oil prices.
Well we remain bullish on light oil prices.
Certainly as we talked about from the macro view we continue to see a tight supply worldwide and we do not see any pending crisis on overloading the system the U.S.
system the refinery system to be able to process all that oil.
So our focus is going to be to reinvest back into the highest return plays and the highest return plays we fully believe in the next few years will be our oil plays.
We will continue to -- as they prove up and continue to give us high rate returns we will continue to add capital back into those.
Of course the focus will be Eagle Ford Bakken but now we have a good set of plays that we have a lot of opportunity to reinvest in.
So our focus is going to be oil for quite some time.
I mean you likely won't need 64 000 barrels a day of oil growth per year to have above peer average type growth but do you see that 64 000 rising in terms – as a rate of growth.
I wouldn't say it would rise but we think it will be fairly consistent.
Next we’ll hear from Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
Yes good morning thanks for taking my question Bill when you were talking about those four new plays you talked about applying technology to the plays.
I can think of at least three things that might mean it might be the D&amp;C cost it could be high-grading the acreage and locations and it could be improvement of completion designs and associated well productivity.
Can you give a sense for at least maybe the newer plays the Codell and perhaps the Parkman? What progress have you made that brought those into the portfolio? What do you think the opportunity is going to be for continued improvement on those dimensions going forward? Yes Charles that’s a good question it starts with the sweet spot so we drilled quite a few Parkman wells and with that data and the other geologic data available we've really narrowed down this acreage in the Parkman to the very sweetest spot.
So we're focused on best play that – it is a start.
Then we brought in the completion technology as we've learned on all these horizontal plays and shale plays the completion technology continues to advance.
We're now seeing even in the conventional – more conventional rocks like sandstones that the improvements that we've seen in the shale plays also apply to those two.
So the completion process I think has allowed us to increase the initial production on the rate on the rates on the wells and the reserve potential on the wells.
That along with the EOG been able to come in and apply our kind of shale cost reduction efforts in these plays to reduce the overall cost it's really improved the rates of returns on all these plays.
So it's a threefold thing really and it really fits into EOG strength.
Got it and then if I could go back and try one more time on the Eagle Ford inventory question is this – the inventory that that's not in your number right now is this in the oily window where perhaps the reservoir is not as productive or is this down dip in gassier acreage that maybe comes into the inventory when gas is it at 4.50 or 5 bucks.
Charles no it’s all in the oil window.
And it’s in the areas where we may have a bit more geologic geo hazards.
All thing and things like that.
And it takes a little bit better effort on our part to get frac containment and we have to change maybe the direction of the wells drilled in and we also have to work a bit harder at getting the frac more evenly distributed along the lateral.
So it's all oil and we have confidence as we go forward that we’re going to be able to continue to make improvements in those areas.
And next we’ll hear from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Good morning Bill.
I liked your comments on your 10 years of growth in the Eagle Ford.
Given that you model back can you about how many years of growth do you see in the Bakken? David we have not done that extensive model in the Bakken yet because we’re really in the initial stages of downspacing and I want to ask Billy Helms to make some comments on that.
Yeah David for our Bakken as we illustrated we’re still very satisfied very pleased with our 1 300 foot spacing test.
But we realized that our NPV net present value was not maximized.
So we’re going to be doing lots of additional testing we did talk about 700 foot spacing pattern and we’ll be testing some various spacing patterns as we try to define how to maximize net present value.
This is a similar approach as we've done in most of our shale plays across the company.
and until we really find out what that formula looks like we're really kind of hesitant to state what the upside not be there but certainly we will provide some more effort on that as we go forward the year and we're very confident that we're going to have success there.
On the maximizing NPV one of the things we've talked a lot about is your IRR doesn't change much but your EUR may decline per well as NPV goes up.
Is that a fair characterization of how your downspacing could actually roll forward? Yes that's correct.
Naturally as you push wells closer together you're going to end up having some sharing between wells.
That's just inevitable.
Our rate of return is still very very high as you stated but what we end up doing is adding a lot more recoverable reserves and there is a lot more net present value to each spacing unit that we drill.
So that's kind of our overall process.
And we're still early on in the space certainly in the Bakken as we try to define that.
And just If I may one more follow-up on -- as you talked about NGLs kind of 2016 plus.
How does your significant combo play exposure factor into like your out-year plan and then we've seen -- we think we've seen a floor for NGL prices due to supply demand in exports would you agree with that as you start thinking '15 '16 plus? Yeah David I think NGLs kind of go along with the gas and we are hopeful that the NGL demand will increase enough to firm up the price.
But again I think from a capital standpoint we still are very focused on oil and really oil for the next several years is going to be where we're going to think we're going to get the highest return.
So as we can get better NGL prices and gas price both combo plays we'll become competitive with our oil plays down the road and we'll put capital on those.
But near term we're still focused on oil.
Irene Haas Wunderlich Securities has our next question.
Hello everybody.
You guys have been super quiet and super stealth about these Rocky Mountain plays and congratulations to your new drilling inventory in Wyoming and Colorado.
And my question for you is really has to do with the Powder River Basin.
Can you help me with the 35 000 net acres so just one layer or is it two do they overlap? And then really parallel to this is can we have some color on the geology are these really -- real continuous play or you just have nailed the sweet spot and lastly sort of transportation differential things of that nature to ship the oil out of Powder River Basin? Yeah Irene the Parkman is about 30 000 acres in the sweet spot net sweet spot and then the Turner is about 63 000 net acres in the sweet spot and much of that acreage does overlap but not all of it and each of those are both sandstone plays.
And so we have quite a bit of surface data and we've mapped the thickest parts of those sandstones and the most productive parts of it.
So that's what those two acreage numbers take in consideration and those obviously we're going to make the highest return of oil in each one of those.
Let me ask Gary Thomas to answer your question on takeaway for the Powder.
We've been really pleased with the various midstream companies.
We're working with several and we're looking at – they're looking at booking in crude line that would come down from North Dakota through Wyoming to be able to pick up our DJ and our Powder River oil.
There's also processing in place and companies that are interested in yes the expansion as well as put in new processing facilities.
So it’s looking very favorable.
Our next question comes from Pearce Hammond Simmons &amp; Co.
Can you remind us the net resource potential or reserve potential for the Eagle Ford when you first announced that play? Do you see the same thing unfolding with these new plays in the DJ and PRB? Yes Pearce the first number I mean the first one come out it was 900 million barrels equivalent net to EOG and I would say the plays the four plays that we've announced today they do not have that upside potential.
Obviously we had 564 000 acres in the Eagle Ford and it’s a very continuous shale play.
These plays in particular the Codell the Turner and the Parkman are sandstone plays.
They're not really shale plays.
So they are more defined geologically and really the acreage positions that we've outlined in each one of those is really the sweet spot and probably the best extents of those plays.
On the Niobrara of course it is a shale play but again we really think we’ve identified a sweet spot in that 50 000 acres there and we believe that we’ll get consistent results there.
Outside of that acreage that's not really proven to be consistent yet so we'll just have to see as time goes on where we can maybe expand that but right now we’re really focused on these individual sweet spots.
I would say in the Niobrara there are multiple targets there and the reserves that we’ve given in this guidance is just assuming one target and it’s assuming six wells per section.
So there is downspacing potential additional targets in the Niobrara and then in the other plays there could be some downspacing potential there but that's undefined yet.
We’re just hopeful on all that.
We’ll have to test that as we go along and if that becomes clear we’ll certainly talk about it.
And then my follow-up is how do you see service costs right now kind of across the – all your positions are you experiencing any tightness any service cost inflation?  Pearce we’re not seeing much we’re seeing tightening on our drilling rigs.
They’ve probably gone up in some areas as much as 5% but as you know EOG has got so much of our services locked in and self-sourced that we’re not seeing any pressure otherwise.
There is a little bit on just trucking but that’s why we’re putting in our gathering system et cetera just because these are going to be so long-lived properties just to hold future costs down.
Next we’ll hear from David Tameron of Wells Fargo.
Hi just a couple of questions and I think you've addressed this partially but could you talk about your desire to ramp and your production (will flow) faster one additional way to bring NPV forward.
So can you talk address that as – I know you are at the upper end of your large cap here.
So just address that and then I'll have a follow-up on the Powder.
We're continuing to drill more wells it's efficiencies in large part.
And thinking of the Eagle Ford yes we're going to be drilling more wells this year than last but with the same number of rigs.
So we can say that's just continuing to improve our efficiencies and drilling more wells each year without a large addition of capital even though we plan to spend additional capital on drilling and completion our E&amp;P sector future years.
Yes David I'll kind of add to that.
The Company is not so much focused on production growth.
We're really focused on capital return and that is what drives EOG.
We're not interested in drilling low return wells to grow production.
So we're going to very much stay focused and very much stay disciplined in our CapEx plans.
So the plays have to have a very strong rate of return before we're going to spend money on them.
Okay and then just okay that’s helpful and then thinking about the Powder we've done obviously a lot of work on the play and just one thing that's always been a hiccup for people is kind of the gas processing or it seems to be at least the Powder it has been a I guess maybe a more of a hurdle as a better way to approach that.
Is that what you guys are running into? And if so are there plans to address.
I heard you talk about infrastructures specifically is it more on the processing gas side or is it more crude takeaway.
I assume those -- I know those are some rail projects out there et cetera.
But can you just give us a little better snapshot on infrastructure? We're working on the crude pipeline takeaway there.
We believe that's going to be in place soon enough for us.
As far the gas processing that's probably the larger concern but there is plant expansions in place.
So we've got sufficient takeaway at this point and we think that it's going to keep us with our growth in the area.
Okay.
I’ll let follow somebody else jump in appreciate it.
Next we’ll hear from Amir Arif of Stifel Nicolaus.
On the DJ Basin have you -- I know you mentioned in the EUR estimates only one time but can you let us know if you've tested the different benches of the Codell and relative and similarly the Niobrara in the Laramie County? Yeah Amir on the Codell you just have one target there and we've had good number of wells that we've talked about that we've drilled in that so we feel great about that.
On the DJ in this area that we're focused on the sweet spot we drilled one target so far and it's been in the lower part of the Niobrara and that's the target we feel like will give us very very consistent results.
We do have plans later in the year to drill a couple of patterns.
The first pattern will be with four Niobrara wells in the lower target and three Codell wells and that's a seven well pattern.
Then the second pattern later in the year we're going to drill six Niobrara wells with three in the upper target and three in the lower target and then three Codell wells so that's a nine well pattern.
So as we drill those and learn how to continue to improve the completions and get into this pattern of drilling we'll learn a whole lot more about the different targets benches in the Niobrara.
And then also the Codell and how all those kind of relate with each other.
Okay thanks for the color.
And then the follow-up question is just looking at the four new plays I mean great returns great projects to add but given that the size of 30 000 to 70 000 acres relative to your other plays.
Can you just provide some color or comments in terms of the minimum acreage threshold you're looking at when you get into new plays and even some color in terms of where you think we are as an industry in terms of the resource capture and is that part of the reason why you sort of look at smaller acreage plays.
Yeah.
I think we've learned off the plays all these resource plays that really to make the highest returns you really need to focus in the sweet spots and they're variable in size.
Obviously in the sandstone plays and that we talked about they're a bit smaller.
In the shale plays they can be bigger but in the case of the DJ basin the basin has shown quite a bit of variability in the Niobrara there so you have to be really careful.
So that's why we've focused in only the 50 000 acres so far in the Niobrara there.
But as far as additional play potential in the U.S.
we do see opportunities and as we’ve said before we have plays that we’re working on in different stages of identification and testing.
And so we believe that it's going to be very difficult to find another Eagle Ford that have both the size and the quality and another Bakken which would have the size and quality.
But we do believe that there will be additional plays that we can capture sweet spots on that will be additive to EOG’s inventory and that will be significant enough for us to focus on.
So when you have multiple hundreds of wells that’s a nice play size and certainly a kind of thing we want to capture.
And next we’ll hear from Bob Brackett of Bernstein Research.
Pretty morning got a bit of a two part question I noticed you’re carrying fairly wide spacing lifts in these new sandstone lithologies is that because you think the footprints or the drainage areas are larger? Bob they do have -- they’re better reservoirs so they have better probability.
But I think that's to be determined.
We will certainly be evaluating the wells as we get them on these spacings and the frac patterns and the potential interference between the wells.
And there could be some room for additional downspacing in the place as we go forward.
It’s just typically EOG we’re very conservative on our reserve estimates when we start these plays out but that will be our focus is to maximize the NPV and that's one way to do it is through additional downspacing.
And as a follow-up if I think about going back as far as say the Jake well what's your strategy for either avoiding or embracing natural fracture systems out there in the front-range? Yes Bob that’s a good question the Jake well was really targeted in a different part of the Niobrara than we're focused on right now more of in the – what they call the chalk part we call it the b chalk in the upper part of the Niobrara and it's also was very fracture driven.
So we have done extensive mapping on the Niobrara and this lower target we believe will give us more consistency number one and then we also have 3D to identify the fracturing and identifying the faulting.
Then I think the third thing is our completion technology has advanced quite a bit and those early wells we drilled were very small fracs with different completion styles.
So we're going to be using our latest completion techniques and we think that will be beneficial also.
But would you be targeting areas that are highly naturally fractured or you’d avoid those? I think we want to really avoid those.
There's always fracturing that's involved in these plays but really looking for resource play that would be consistent or we can get excellent matrix contribution.
So that's the approach that we're taking.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session for today.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to Bill Thomas for any additional or closing comments.
Thank you for listening.
We appreciate all the questions.
That's it.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Tim Driggers.
Please go ahead Sir.
Good morning.
I am Tim Driggers CFO.
Thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing second quarter 2014 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release and Investor Relations page on our website.
Participating on the call this morning are Bill Thomas Chairman and CEO Gary Thomas Chief Operating Officer Billy Helms Executive VP Exploration and Production and Mario Baldwin Vice President IR.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website yesterday evening and we included third quarter and full year guidance in yesterday's press release.
This morning we will discuss topics in the following order.
I will first review our 2014 second quarter net income and discretionary cash flow and then Bill Thomas and Billy Helms will provide operational results I’ll then address EOG's financials capital structure and hedge position.
Finally Bill Thomas will cover EOG's macro view and provide concluding remarks.
As outlined in our press release for the second quarter 2014 EOG reported net income of $706.4 million or $1.29 per share.
EOG's second quarter 2014 adjusted non-GAAP net income which eliminates the mark-to-market impacts and certain non-recurring items as outlined in the press release was $796 million or $1.45 per share.
Non-GAAP discretionary cash flow for the second quarter was $2.2 billion.
At June 30 2014 the debt-to-total cap ratio was 26%.
The net debt-to-total cap ratio was 22%.
I will now turn it over to Bill Thomas to discuss operational results and key plays.
Thanks Tim.
Once again EOG had an outstanding quarter.
We posted year-over-year U.S.
oil growth of 33% with total company production growth of 17% which drove excellent financial metrics.
We increased the dividend on the common stock by 34% the second increase this year and we also announced our success in yet another high return US crude oil play.
EOG’s workhouse assets the Eagle Ford and Bakken continued to meet or in most cases exceed our high expectations.
Although we’ve been in the Bakken since 2006 and the Eagle Ford since 2010 we are steadily improving individual well results in both plays through continuing advances in completion designs.
Also due to our ongoing ability to improve efficiencies we continued to maintain good cost control which was evident in our second quarter results.
Together these plays are continuing to drive high return oil growth and are far from mature.
We realized cost reductions during the first half partially due to efficiency gains from the increase in pad drilling in the Bakken and Eagle Ford.
In both plays we are drilling longer laterals and utilizing larger fracs because we have secured sand supplies.
With pad completions a large number of offset wells are taken off-line.
Wells take longer to flow back and new wells are brought on production and packages.
As a result production growth can be lumpy rather than linear.
As many of you who follow state data have noticed.
This doesn't change EOG’s long-term growth profile.
As mentioned in yesterday's press release we announced success of the second Bone Spring Sand which lies beneath our Leonard shale acreage in the Delaware Basin.
This is the fifth oil or combo plate EOG has added to its drilling inventory this year.
Now I will turn it over to Billy Helms to discuss this play and our operations.
Thanks Bill.
In the first half of 2014 we were in the exploratory phase on our Delaware basin Leonard acreage.
As we mentioned on our May call we were testing various spacing pilots and zones across our acreage.
We also tested the potential of the Second Bone Spring Sand.
The second Bone Spring Sand sits beneath our Leonard acreage position primarily in Eddy and Lea counties New Mexico.
We drilled our first horizontal wells here 10 years ago and shifted capital to the Leonard and Wolfcamp shale plays and now we’ve gone back to our proprietary completion techniques.
In Southern Lea County we drilled and completed two very successful wells in the Second Bone Springs Sand.
The first was a short link lateral and the second was drilled with 4500 foot lateral.
The Mars 3 State #1H and the Jolly Roger 16 Sate #1H had initial production rates of 1270 and 1450 barrels of oil per day with 150 and 210 barrels per day of NGLs and 1.1 million and 1.5 million cubic feet per day of natural gas respectively.
The production stream is 70% 45 API gravity oil.
We have 73 000 net Leonard acres and estimate the second Bone Spring Sand is highly perspective over the majority of this acreage.
We still need additional drilling to test all portions of our acreage but these initial results combined with the industry data from over 500 wells rate our expectation for the play’s high rate return growth potential.
The estimate completed well cost of $6 million with gross reserves of 500 in BOE per well yielding 100% direct after-tax rate of return.
We are very pleased with the addition of the second Bone Spring Sand to our drilling portfolio.
It’s a high rate of return black oil play on existing acreage.
We plan to drill a few more wells this year and increase activity in the play in 2015.
Over time we will determine proper spacing and the ultimate resource potential to EOG.
In the Leonard shale we are still testing down spacing in the same zones and across zones.
Over the last 12 months we tested numerous patterns from 660 foot spacing down to the 300 foot space Gemini wells highlighted in the press release.
We are very pleased with the preliminary production results.
We've also had initial results from two recent B-zone wells and from tightly spaced wells drilled in a pattern across the A and B zones.
It is a little too early to reach firm conclusions on optimum spacing or the ultimate number of possible well locations from each zone.
But we are encouraged by our results today.
In the Delaware Basin Wolfcamp we’re focused on making improvements in well productivity through the application of completion technology.
In Reeves County the State Apache 57 #11 07H was completed with an initial production rate of 1600 barrels of oil per day with 460 barrels per day of NGLs and 3 million ft.³ per day of natural gas.
This is the best Wolfcamp well we drilled to date.
We are testing various spacing patterns and the prospectivity of different pay intervals in the play.
We are on track to complete 14 net wells this year and have been encouraged with our progress and results to date.
In the Bakken we've shifted to more multi-well pad drilling this year with most of our activity focused in the core area.
We’re encouraged by the very early production flow back results from our first 700 foot spaced wells.
As Bill mentioned earlier these are wells -- these are wells drilled from pads and completed with larger fracs.
The wells are taking longer to flow back and therefore it is too early to report any individual well results.
We've noticed a marked improvement in production rates that reflect changes we’ve made to completion techniques over the last two years.
After achieving peak rates the well production is flattening out nicely delivering excellent rate of return.
During the second half we plan to drill both Bakken and Three Forks wells on our Antelope Extension acreage.
We also plan to test various benches of the Three Forks formation on both our core and Antelope extension acreage.
Later this year we expect to get our first data point after we test the third bench of the Three Forks on our Antelope extension acreage.
In the Wyoming DJ basin we plan to drill 39 net wells this year in the Codell and Niobrara.
One notable new well completed in the second quarter in the Codell was the Jubilee 586 – 1705H.
It came online in 1145 barrels of oil per day with 445 MCF per day of rich natural gas.
We have a 75% working interest in the well.
Since May we've added 13 000 net acres in the Codell increasing our position to 85 000 net acres.
In the Powder River Basin we plan to drill 34 net wells this year in the Parkman and Turner reservoirs.
Two recently completed Parkman wells are the Mary’s Draw 404-21H and 468 – 34H which had initial production rates of 1045 and 980 barrels of oil per day respectively.
We have 99% and 100% working interest in the wells respectively and we are drilling on multi-well pads in both the Powder River and DJ.
I'll now turn it over to Bill to discuss the Eagle Ford and our international operations.
Thanks Billy.
In the Eagle Ford we’re in the sixth inning of understanding and progress in the play and we’ve not yet reached the peak from a learning curve standpoint.
We’re constantly experimenting with the completion designs and are seeing improved production responses from these tweaks.
We still have ongoing spacing pilots in certain areas.
We highlighted multiple high initial production rate wells in our press release.
During the second quarter of the 29 wells we drilled in Gonzales County 21 had IP rates exceeding 2500 barrels of oil per day.
This distinct statement shows our Eagle Ford quality is holding up quite nicely.
During the second quarter we drilled a number of lease retention wells.
Our drilling plans for the second half include fewer of these one-off wells that we expect to realize efficiency gains from pad drilling and other improvements in costs and logistics.
We are drilling longer laterals with a 50% increase in the number of stages from where we were three years ago.
We’re also seeing productivity improvements during early flow back but we need more time to evaluate the results.
We’re on track to drill 520 net Eagle Ford Wells this year.
By midyear we had brought 260 wells to sales.
On our last earnings call we talked about the depth and longevity of oil growth from our Eagle Ford asset.
Nothing has changed in our view.
In Trinidad we have a three well net well development drilling program planned for 2014 which will allow us to maintain flat natural gas production in coming years.
In the East Irish Sea the Conway project is now expected to be online early 2015 due to certain scheduling matters with the platform operator.
I’ll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financial and capital structure.
Thanks Bill.
Before getting into the specifics on CapEx and guidance I want to point out a new IR slide on page 14 using actuals and sell-side estimates we compared EOG’s 2013 and 2014 estimated ROE and ROCE to the average of the majors integrated independent E&amp;Ps for the same period.
What stands out from the chart is EOG’s financial returns relative to the other sectors.
In the energy space there are sectors known for growth and those known for returns.
But rarely does the company or sector combine high production growth with outstanding financial returns.
We believe EOG is currently exhibiting among the best financial returns in the entire industry combined with excellent production growth.
For the second quarter capitalized interest was $14 million.
Total cash exploration and development expenditures were $2 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $237 million.
EOG made $74 million of acquisitions during the quarter.
At the end of June total debt outstanding was $5.9 billion.
At June 30 we had $1.2 billion of cash on hand.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter was 36% and the deferred tax ratio was 62%.
Yesterday we included guidance table with the earnings press release for the third quarter and full-year 2014.
For the third quarter and full year the effective tax rate is estimated to be 35% to 40%.
We've also provided an estimated range of the dollar amount of current taxes that we have that we expect to record during the third quarter and for the full year.
In terms of our hedge positions for the period August 1 through December 31 2014 EOG has crude oil financial price swap contracts in place for 194 000 barrels of oil per day at a weighted average price of $96.19 per barrel.
For the first half of 2015 we have 69 000 barrels per day of crude oil options that could be put to us at an average price of $95.20 per barrel.
For the period September 1 through December 31 2014 EOG has natural gas financial price swap contracts in place for 330 000 MMbtu per day at a weighted average price of $4.55 per MMbtu.
For the period January 1 through December 31 2015 EOG has natural gas financial price swap contracts in place for 175 000 MMbtu per day at a weighted average price of $4.51 per MMbtu.
These numbers exclude options that are exercisable by our counterparties.
For the period January 1through December 31 2015 we have 175 000 MMbtu per day of options that could be put to us at an average price of $4.51 per Mmbtu for each month.
Now I’ll turn it back to Bill to provide the EOG’s views regarding the macro environment and a summary.
Thanks Tim.
We remain bullish on crude oil prices.
We are advocates of free markets and are proponents of condensate and crude oil exports.
While the opening up of condensate exports will create more headroom for refiners to process light oil even without exports we still see several years of headroom in the US refining complex.
Regarding North American natural gas we don't have any plans to reinvest in dry gas drilling opportunities at current prices as we expect that the strength we saw in gas prices earlier this year was only a temporary and driven by the coldest winter weather in 14 years.
Recent high storage injection numbers again have verified the enormous supply deliverability on untapped Shale gas in the US.
This provides solid support for rapid approval of additional LNG export terminals.
Our 2014 plan remains consistent with what we outlined at the beginning of the year.
We continue to reinvest in high rate of return crude oil weighted drilling opportunities.
We increased our crude oil growth forecast in May 29%.
And this quarter we are increasing EOG’s total company production growth estimate to 14% from 12% based on growth from associated NGL and natural gas production from our crude oil plays.
Our CapEx estimate remains unchanged.
We have now increased the common stock dividend twice this year.
Now let me conclude there are five important takeaways from this call.
First EOG is focused on returns.
EOG’s high return production growth is showing up as strong growth in cash flow net income and through increasing ROE and ROCE metrics.
The Bakken Eagle Ford and Leonard have the potential to sustain above average long-term growth with very high returns.
EOG is well-positioned to be a long-term leader in returns on capital in the energy sector.
Second EOG is a growth leader and it's organic.
EOG’s estimated 2014 oil growth on a barrel per day basis is greater than any other company in the peer group and this growth is all organic.
We have the assets and the inventory depth to sustain this growth.
Please take a look at the new IR slide on page 7 growing oil as we did 33% in the Lower 48 this quarter is a remarkable achievement.
Third exploration and technology focus we’ve again increased our high return drilling inventory on existing acreage with the addition of the Second Bone Spring Sand.
We also reported good preliminary down spacing results from the Leonard A and B zones.
The Second Bone Spring Sand and the Leonard Down spacing results are two examples of how EOG generates new plays through exploration and the use of in-house technology.
Fourth we're committed to generating long-term value for our stockholders.
We increased the dividend on the common stock for the second time this year.
This combined with net debt reduction has been our plan for discretionary cash flow.
Finally our return on growth profile is unique.
As Tim pointed out based on 2014 estimates we are at the head of the class in terms of combined production growth and financial returns among all upstream sectors including the majors integrators and independents.
That's a powerful statement and our IR slide on page 14 is quite impressive regarding financial returns and we plan to maintain this lead by continuing to reinvest in high rate of return oil plays.
Thanks for listening and now we’ll go to Q&amp;A.
Thank you the question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
(Operator instructions) We’ll take our first question from Amir Arif with Stifel.
Good morning guys a quick question on the Bone Springs.
The 73 000 acres that you talked about for the Second Bone Springs is that just on the New Mexico side? Or does that also include acreage on the Texas side? Yeah Amir our 73 000 acre position both in Leonard and the Bones Springs does cross the state lines.
So it is both located in the Mexico and Texas.
What’s interesting to note about the second Bone Springs Wells is they are about 5 miles apart they do help confirm the potential on a lot of our acreage and certainly with the well-control we have in the play.
We feel good about the extent of what we've seen so far.
We are early in the testing of those zones but it is they do represent two of the most South-East wells in the play as far as wells completed in the Second Bone Springs Sand.
So we certainly feel good about what we see so far.
But we’ll have to evaluate long-term production to assess the potential to the company.
Okay and as a follow-up I know it’s still early days in the play like you just mentioned.
But could you just give us how you are thinking about the development right now in terms of the Leonard AP and the Bone Spring in terms of is one going to be your primary target or infrastructure build out the support one versus the other or each one is given a return each one could be a primary target.
Well I think that’s a good way to think about it.
I think each one can be a primary target on zone.
Infrastructure is certainly in place for our current activity and takeaway capacity and certainly we try to stay ahead of that as we develop the plays.
We will be testing as we mentioned in the in the call or in the press release we have tested number patterns for the Leonard especially the A zone and are Gemini wells that are spaced to 300feet apart in the Leonard A- zone in and certainly we're excited about potential we see there.
But we’ll have to determine what the ultimate spacing will be in each zone as we progress.
These two wells in the Palm Springs of mentioned earlier they are about 5 miles apart.
So there have not been any spacing tests conducted on the Bone Springs yet.
And so we’ll have to go through that exercise and it will take care several months to work through that and why additional wells planned in the in the rest of the year to try to assess how we move forward that program.
We’ll take our next question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I wonder if I could try two quick ones.
First of all Bill in your prepared remarks you did mention the Eagle Ford.
I wondered if you could help dig a little bit deeper into the impact of the need to change to drill retention wells is the way you put it on the call.
And if we might expect to see the growth rate accelerate again in the second half as you get back to your more normal order of business.
That's my first question.
Yeah good morning Doug.
Yeah the retention wells we talked about we were mainly in the western part of our acreage where we go out and we drill wells on the initial unit just to the hold the acreage and we’ve completed most of that drilling for this year the first half of the year.
So in the second half of the year we will be doing as we talked about in early remarks will be doing considerably more pad drilling.
So that means we come back in and follows retention wells and other areas and we drill multi-well pads and we drill these wells in large groups and we complete these wells in large groups and so they when we do this we do get more efficiencies and cost.
But the production is a bit more lumpy as we go forward as we do the more of the pad drilling.
So the main benefit is the efficiencies and cost to do the drilling being able to drill wells on multiple well pads.
Bill just to be clear I'm guessing your average -- we don't obviously have the full disclosure on this but the average well rates then out of the average well and not in the second quarter would presumably have been lower.
But you're basically saying that really was more of an anomaly than something that's changing in the program? Is that a good way to think about it? Yeah the average rate on the wells have been improving over time.
We’re still making in completion improvements.
Steady will slide in our IR presentation particularly on the western wells and so the new better completion techniques we’re doing on wells continue to make better wells.
But really we don't see a significant change from the first half of the second.
My follow-up is really more of a philosophical question.
Obviously you've done a terrific job on the returns per your slide presentation compared to the different peer groups.
By putting yourself in that -- it's fun to look at those big oil metrics if you like.
I wonder how you think about the dividend.
Obviously a big dividend bump this quarter again but it's still a very modest yield.
How do you think longer term about what the right level of dividend is for a company of your size with a growth trajectory and calls on capital that you have? Because again when you start to compare yourself to that wider peer group some of those guys have 3% 4% 5% dividend yields and obviously you're substantially below that.
Longer-term how should we think about your allocation of capital to the dividend on a go forward basis? That’s a good question Doug we don't have a policy so as we go forward the board will just continue to look at our cash flow and where we are at the company on what we need to do to continue to grow the company.
And we will give dividends appropriately based on the situation of the company.
So certainly we’ve had a good track record 16 increases in 15 years and we’re certainly committed to long-term shareholder value creation.
We will go next to Leo Mariani with RBC Capital.
Just wanted to dive into some of the new plays.
Obviously you talked about the Second Bone Springs here today.
Last quarter you introduced a number of new Rockies plays as well.
Can you give us a sense of how you plan to allocate capital to these new plays this year and next? Is there any plays there that are a priority? Are there any limitations on infrastructure or any need to hold acreage that governs any of that? Maybe talk to how we should see activity levels in those new plays over the next year or two.
As far as the new play they are all in a bit different situation certainly plays that we talked about in the first quarter call in the Power River basin and DJ basin we’re moving ahead with the development on those most of it’s on multi-well pad drilling and we’re defining spacing patterns and optimizing our completions and costs and those will get capital allocation as we see the results of the wells and again the plays with the best rate of return will get the most capital as we go forward.
On the Bone Springs we are new into that as Billy talked about we drilled two really strong wells and we will be evaluating that play as we go forward.
But as we look in to the future everything EOG does is focused on return on capital invested so each play will get rewarded based on that.
Switching gears a little bit you guys did take your gas and NGL production guidance up here in 2014.
You talked about associated gas in liquids from your oil plays.
Could you give us a little bit more color on specifically where that's coming from in terms of the incremental associated gas here? Yes Leo we had a couple things in the first half of the year and the second quarter.
We have added infrastructure particularly in midland that’s helped our gas takeaway situation there and deliverability.
We did in our Barnett combo play we had a number of wells on restricted flow rates due to pressure control and we did open up some of those in the second quarter a little bit.
But just in general as we stated in the opening remarks we increased our oil in the first quarter and this is kind of a follow up as we have associated gas with all of our crude oil plays our base decline in our natural gas is slowing due to not much natural – but no natural gas drilling and no property sales and so our associated gas with a crude oil plays is beginning to overcome that decline.
We will go next to Pearce Hammond with Simmons.
Bill I noticed a change in the completed well costs in the Eagle Ford.
Looked like it moved up to $5.7 million from $5.5 million.
Is that just more longer lateral more sand? And does that $5.7 million yield bigger wells? Yes you are exactly right we’re drilling the longer laterals they are about 10% larger -- longer and with that of course roughly $1000 traded lateral that’s adding quite a bit of additional cost but we’ve been able to reduce that with just continued efficiencies and our number of days per well has dropped quite lot here this last quarter as a matter of fact we set a new record this quarter once again with a 4.3 day well to 15 600 feet so we are seeing improved wells I think that was placed 20 in our chart shows that the wells are about 15% better this year than last.
Then my follow-up is Bill can you provide some color on your ‘15 oil hedging strategy? Historically and I think business wise we would like to have a good hedge position going forward in oil and gas the difficulty has been that backwardation in the forward curve on both gas and oil we don't see as reflective of what’s going to happen in the future so it's difficult to get a good hedge.
But we’re certainly looking for opportunities as we go forward in the second half of the year to add some hedges in oil and gas if they are available.
We will go next to Subash Chandra with Jefferies A Permian question for my first one.
So casual reading of these well results indicate that there's not a vast difference in the IPs that were quoted.
Yet Wolfcamp much higher EURs expected and a much higher resource potential expected out of the Wolfcamp itself.
Could you just add perhaps a bit more color to what you saw after these IPs that indicate that the Wolfcamp is 60% higher in terms of EURs per well than say a Leonard and a comp to the Second Bone Springs? This is Billy Helms I will answer this Permian question.
For the Leonard and in both the Wolfcamp each one independent zones the Leonard is more of a oil play it has a different production profile certainly than that the Wolfcamp which is more of a combo-ish kind of play.
So the production profiles although they may start at somewhat similar IPs on oil production profile is certainly different because they are different types of reservoirs so the decline rates will be different the product mix is certainly different.
And so it's going to yield different EURs over the life of the well.
We’re also -- that will also play into how we develop the field and the ultimate spacing of the wells as well.
So the Leonard as you saw we’re testing down to some wells that are at 300 foot spacing and Wolfcamp we’re generally testing closer to 750 foot spacing as we go through the play so those are just some differences between the two different reservoirs they are quite different certainly and have different zones of targets but that's the basic difference between the two.
And Billy what do you see happening with the rig count in the various Permian plays over the next year? Well certainly I expect this with success we would expect activity to increase in the Permian over time.
The luxury we have right now is we have just a large number of really high quality plays in the company where we can allocate capital so what it does is it gives us the time to go through and make sure we understand the proper completion techniques and the proper spacing before we really start increasing activity in each play.
That helps make us a little bit smarter on overall development and still provide long-term growth for the company.
So we’re pretty excited about the potential we see there in the Permian and we’re taking our time to really make sure that we understand how to complete and what the proper spacing of each one of those zones will be before we really ramp up activity too quickly.
And my follow-up.
I don't know if EOG participated in the Turner Mason study or not.
I guess the net conclusion is that they're arguing for a riskier packaging number but essentially no change in the type of railcar to carry Bakken crude.
As you're obviously on the upstream and the midstream side of the transportation side of it what are your takeaways? We are certainly conservative on everything we do or we’re concerned about safety and we’re certainly all in favor of many of the things that have been proposed and I guess the new guidelines didn’t really catch us by surprise we are prepared for those as we go forward and we’re solidly behind - the activity to increase the safety of rails as we go forward.
Or more specifically do you think there needs to be a change in the 111 railcars to carry Bakken crude? We are very well-positioned there with the contracts that we have and we’re still reviewing these rules but as our cars that go off the least we will be going with the cars of the future so we really like the way we’re positioned to be able to have the most safe and regulatory compliant rail fleet.
We will go next to Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
My question is on the land that's also called Avalon.
You mentioned earlier that is a different beast from the Wolfcamp Shale.
So can you shed a little light on whether it's a true shale or is it something else? And then does it have really high IPA and how does it drop off? Because I think it can get pretty steep.
And also in your past PowerPoint in July I think you mentioned about three zones in the Leonard.
These are my questions.
The Leonard is a shale and it’s really the third best reservoir in terms of shale we really have in the company.
It’s a very high porosity shale with really we've identified at this point two zones the A and B zone and the content of the reserve is about 50% oil and they start off at very high rates and have excellent rates of return in the shale.
So we’re fortunate our acreage position we believe has captured much of its weak spot of the play and we’ve had as Billy talked about we've had very good success on increasing the per well productivity with our new completion techniques and also been able to test wells at very tight spacing with at least initial good results.
So we think we can continue to improve the play and add value as we go forward in our development process.
How is the declines? I would say the decline in the Leonard play – I would say it's not too different than many of our other shale plays in that they are hyperbolic in nature they fall off fairly fast and I don't know – couldn’t quote a number right now as far as the initial decline on the well but they are very similar to most of our other shale plays very hyperbolic in nature but they produced a level out produced for a long time at very good rates.
So they do provide excellent economics as we would – as we reported earlier the current rate of return for that play is over hundred percent as well.
So we’re very excited about the potential of development of the play and economics of that play.
We will go next to Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
One quick question on down-spacing it seems like there's an awful lot of down spacing going on at EOG.
So could you run us through the various plays so for example on the Leonard shale I know you did 300 foot inter lateral spacing and you’re doing some additional pilots are you testing down to 150s and then in the Eagle Ford you’re doing some additional pilots are you going down to 20s there could you talk about down spacing in the Bakken and in Wyoming and what the implications are for the increase in locations? Yeah Bill let me just go through -- that's a good question -- each one of those plays a bit.
So in the Eagle Ford we’re currently developing that play on about 40 acre spacing and there are some areas where – and That’s about 300 feet between wells on average.
There are some wells where the well spacing is greater than 300 feet and we are doing a bit of infill field work in some of those areas we don't have any news to report on that other than the early results look good.
And we need some long-term results on that before we can determine if that’s the best way to do those areas.
In the Bakken we’re on our third set of down spacing in the Bakken and we have had very good success with 1300feet between wells which is approximately 4 wells per section.
Now we are testing approximately 700 feet between wells that would be eight wells per section.
And as Billy reported on that we have a few wells that are flowing back and those initial results look good.
But we do need quite a bit more time to watch the long-term production of those wells and then also watch additional wells as we bring them on line on those spacing patterns.
And in the Leonard we've gone from 660 foot spacing and we tested various spacing patterns down to 300 feet between the wells.
We do not have any plans to go less than 300 feet in the same zone between wells so where we are on that process is we’re just evaluating all those different spacing patterns to determine what's the proper spacing to fully develop the field.
If you could comment on Wyoming as well that would be great.
And then a follow-up question.
Then comment on the implication for locations if you can give us any specifics on that.
But follow-up question would be you're talking about increasing E&amp;P activity in 2015 versus 2014.
So is your plan to be free cash flow positive in 2015 and increase the balance sheet as you suggest in some of your comments or do you plan on matching fairly closely cash flow to CapEx and talk about what the optimal debt level is in that context?.
Yeah Joe that certainly we’re beginning to think about 2015 but we just don't have any specific guidance on that other than we’re going to reinvest the majority of our growing cash flow.
We’re going to continue to reinvest that back into the highest rate return plays that we have and we will be looking at certainly the drilling program this year and the results and all these different spacing patterns and the well productivity and the return on all these and we will just allocate that to continue to grow the company very strongly.
But to really to focus on returns and our net debt to cap ratio continues to fall in the company and we want to continue to strengthen the balance sheet as we go forward and allocate our capital based on those metrics.
Any comments on the spacing pilot you're doing in Wyoming? Joe in Wyoming in the DJ basin we’re drilling alternating Niobrara and Codell targets and those spacing patterns on various different spacing between wells but there are approximately 800 feet apart and so we will be looking at those initial patterns and see how those respond.
And then in the Parkman zone we’re currently developing a 1300 feet between wells and drilling longer laterals in that particular play and in the Turner we’re developing on 1355 feet between zones.
And again each one of these we’d like to get multiple patterns established and we’d like to get long-term results to see how much sharing – if sharing the risk between wells and then we make appropriate adjustments as we go forward.
So it’s kind of the long-term process.
And we’re very focused on maximizing the net present value of each of these properties and to maximize the reserve recovery and the value of the property so that's kind of the status on those plays.
We’ll go next to Bob Brackett with Bernstein.
Good morning.
Quick question on new ventures.
Can you talk a little about the lower tests in the Three Forks? And maybe anything on East Texas you're willing to share? Good morning Bob.
Thanks for the question.
In the Three Forks we do have some wells planned particularly in our Antelope acreage.
We do have a third match plan the test later in the year and some I believe probably first and second batch also test to continue to evaluate that.
Yeah I would say Bob on East Texas you know everybody knows we are drilling a few wells over there and evaluating the play as well as plays in other parts of the country too.
So it's just a part of our continuing exploration effort in the company to define new play potential.
As you know we have a very very high cut-off for new play.
So we’re not interested in pursuing plays that have a 20% or 30% rate of return potential we’ve really set the bar high and we’re looking for plays and only would be able to generate say north of 50% rates return going forward and we’re still – we’re very focused on crude oil plays.
So the East Texas is just a part of that mix and we will continue testing that and when we get some information that’s meaning and something that we will go forward on we can talk about that later but right now that's all the information we have.
We’ll go next to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to follow-up on a couple of earlier topics starting with the Leonard.
The potential for a 300-foot spacing in the Leonard would seem to imply tighter spacing at least at your base case lateral length relative to some of the other plays out there.
Can you just talk about unique characteristics you see in the Leonard relative to other plays in other parts of the Delaware basin? And how you're thinking about both recovery rates and the trade-off of longer laterals versus tighter spacing? Yeah Brian this is Bill Helms.
On the spacing for the Leonard this is the same approach we’ve really taken in every play that we undertake.
It’s to try to understand what’s the right spacing given the current state of our completion technology in each lateral to maximize the net present value of every acre that we have under lease.
And so for the Leonard we started out with 660 foot spacing and we continue to test tighter spacing in each one of our subsequent patterns to understand what is the right formula to maximize our net present value and certainly the Gemini wells that we highlighted in the press release are encouraging for 300 foot space well.
I would say that we need a little bit more production time to really understand what the optimal spacing pattern is going to be for that Leonard A zone as we go forward.
And then similarly we will do the same thing for the Leonard B zone as well as the Wolfcamp zones in the Delaware as we start through the development in each one of those.
So it’s a similar process we go through in each play.
For the Leonard it's just -- it's really – as Bill mentioned earlier it’s a high quality shale across the good mechanical properties that allows us to really focus the fracs near wellbore and maximize recovery of each well and that's different than some of the other plays.
Of course each play has its own characteristics and mechanical properties that dictate what the proper spacing will be and that's why these very methodical spacing tests are needed to try to determine what the optimal will be on each pattern.
And then in the Eagle Ford you have a slide -- slide 20 where you're showing further improvement in well performance this year relative to last year.
You talked about the greater the more complex fracs and slightly higher well costs.
Is that what's reflected here or is there further upside to EURs? Are you just getting oil out of the ground earlier via completion efficiencies? And are there any changes to your thoughts on recovery rates in oil in place in the Eagle Ford? It’s a little early to determine what recovery factors is now with these enhanced completions.
But yes we’re really excited about what’s transpired here just this year in the Eagle Ford because more of our wells are being drilled in the West side which previously thought -- we thought was maybe less productive.
But with more wells there then we’re drilled longer laterals enhanced completions then overall – the average of the wells drilled in 2014 is quite lot better than the wells – the average of the wells drilled in 2013.
It’s just improved completions.
And are you seeing any change in the decline rates being greater? Or should one expect that these greater rates should carry into and well performance through 60 days should carry into EUR? We would expect – that we would see with the same kind of IPs and the wells even holding up better 60 90 days that we would see improvement there as well as far as long-term production.
We do have longer laterals and we just need additional time on these.
Yeah I think the important thing on that Brian is that it is really critical that we get long-term data on each one of these plays and that goes for the Eagle Ford in particular is that we just want to see more than 90 days production to determine what the ultimate EUR will be and especially as we continue to work the spacing issues it’s very critical to take our time and to get enough data before we can say whether there is an EUR the increase or not.
We will take our next question from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
I did want to talk to you a little bit maybe a follow-up to Joe's question.
But as you sit here today Bill you have a bigger opportunity set than you had perhaps 6 or 12 months ago given the Rockies oil opportunity.
The Delaware Basin opportunity looks bigger.
So I just wanted to get your thoughts on potentially as you look forward to perhaps increasing CapEx beyond cash flows.
You're pretty bullish on oil.
Your debt to cap is down to 21%.
And you did have a big dividend increase.
So just some thoughts given the increasing opportunity set at EOG to take that CapEx to accelerate your returns profile even more.
Arun I think what you can expect from EOG going forward is discipline -- capital discipline is at the top of our list and so we are really focused on operating the company relatively within our cash flow going forward.
We’re very focused on keeping the balance sheet solid as we go forward at net debt to cap at a low level and really discipline -- each of these plays as you focus on rates of return capital rates of return and maximize the value of the plays it’s important not to grow or accelerate them too fast.
And so we’re really focused on doing that correctly and continuing to focus on crude oil not interested in gas drilling and that we’re really focused on growing the cash flow of the company forward of investments in our crude oil really.
And that would again suggest maybe staying within cash flows? I think we want to operate the company with discipline in spending and certainly not outrun the cash flow of the company.
And just a quick follow-up switching gears to the Delaware basin.
Bill you talked about 550 million barrel resource opportunity in the Leonard two zones there.
Just wondering what the spacing assumptions were that underpin that.
And perhaps given the successful downspacing tests you're perhaps looking at maybe even 16 wells for each of the zones.
I was wondering if you can comment on what that 550 was underpinned by from a spacing perspective? So I will ask Bill Helms to give some color on that.
The Leonard we originally arrived at our EURs the ultimate recovery from that field from that play using a 660 foot spacing for all the Leonard wells and certainly we have potential for some multiple pay zones in some areas although we will need to consider all the targets perspective over all the pay zone over all the acreage but in general it's a 660 foot between wells which is roughly an 80 acre spacing per well and as mentioned we're – our Gemini wells we did test down to 300 and while it’s still early we still need some production time to understand what the ultimate spacing will be for that play.
And that would be for the A and B zones? Yes that’s what we used in our initial estimates yes.
I would mention too that we wouldn't have considered all the zones perspective over all the acreage so I caution you there.
And I know it's early days but how is the Bones Spring -- little bit more oil content.
Are the returns compared to the Leonard at least on your initial wells similar? Yeah I would say they are very similar as far as returns we’re -- honestly we just had the first two wells down this acreage position and we’re very excited about it.
But as you mentioned it is early and we will certainly need to watch production for a while and as Bill mentioned we like to have a little more than 90 days of production I’d say more than 90 days production to evaluate the ultimate recovery from all these wells.
At this time I would like to turn it back to Mr.
Thomas for additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you for listening and thank you for all the good questions and just know that EOG as we go forward is a company that's unique we’re focused on returns continuing to improve our ROE and ROIC numbers and strong crude oil growth.
Thank you for listening.
This does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to the EOG Resources’ Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Tim Driggers.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing third quarter 2014 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release and Investor Relations page of our website.
Participating on the call this morning are Bill Thomas Chairman and CEO; Billy Helms Executive VP Exploration and Production; David Trice Executive VP Exploration and Production; and Mario Baldwin Vice President IR; and Lance Terveen Vice President Marketing Operations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website yesterday evening and we included fourth quarter and full year guidance in yesterday's press release.
This morning we will discuss topics in the following order.
I will first review our 2014 third quarter net income and discretionary cash flow and then Bill Thomas David Trice and Billy Helms will provide operational results I’ll then address EOG's financials capital structure and hedge position.
Finally Bill Thomas will provide concluding remarks.
As outlined in our press release for the third quarter 2014 EOG reported net income of $1 103.6 million or $2.01 per share.
EOG's third quarter 2014 adjusted non-GAAP net income which eliminates the mark-to-market impacts and certain non-recurring items as outlined in the press release was $720.6 million or $1.31 per share.
Non-GAAP discretionary cash flow for the third quarter was $2.2 billion.
At September 30 2014 the debt-to-total cap ratio was 25%.
Adjusting for cash the net debt-to-total cap ratio was 20% down from 23% at December 31.
I’ll now turn it over to Bill Thomas to discuss operational results and key plays.
Thanks Tim.
EOG continues to deliver outstanding production growth and financial metrics by consistently executing on our strategy of investing in high return organic crude oil growth.
For the third quarter all three of our productions components exceeded our expectations and are unit costs were below our forecast.
Total company crude oil and condensate production was up 27% for the third quarter and 33% compared to the first nine months of 2013.
Total liquids production including NGLs increased 27% for the third quarter and 31% for the first nine months.
Based on these results we are raising our full year crude oil growth target for the second time this year to 31% from 29%.
We are increasing our total company production growth target of 16.5% from 14% based on outperformance from our Eagle Ford and Delaware Basin assets.
I will now address the Eagle Ford then David Trice will provide an operational update on the Permian and Billy Helms will discuss the Bakken and Rockies plays.
In the Eagle Ford I can characterize our current activity in three points.
One the Eagle Ford is on track for multiyear growth; two we continue to make enhancements in completion; and three the Eagle Ford is the industry's best crude oil asset and we’ve captured the sweet spot.
I’ll now address each point in more detail.
First one the Eagle Ford is on a growth trend for the next 10 years.
On the May earnings call we indicated our model was based on making a modest increase to 520 net wells we had initially planned this year and holding net well count flat through 2004.
In this scenario the oil production rose for 10 years based on our production this year we are set up to achieve this upward growth curve.
Second point our well quality continues to improve with completion enhancements even after five years we are still experimenting with completion designs and we continue to see improved well productivity and higher overall MPB.
Our completions are customized for specific rock properties not only in each well but in each and every stage within the well.
We've been testing what we call high-density frac.
In one area we saw a 39% improvement in well productivity from this new frac design relative to adjacent wells.
Year-to-date we have seen a 10% average improvement in well performance from our Western Eagle Ford acreage drilling activity.
We have included illustrations in our accompanying IR slides for reference.
Third point the Eagle Ford continues to be the industries and EOG’s premiere crude play in North America for both production growth and financial returns.
Our drilling program will remain very profitable despite fluctuations in oil process.
At $80 oil the eagle ford will still generate direct after-tax rates of return in excess of 100%.
At less than $40 oil we would still achieve a minimum 10% direct a-tax rate of return.
The Eagle Ford remains EOG’s highest rate of return asset.
While we still see some cost pressure and completion services we are able to control costs increases largely with our self-source sand and other completion materials.
We also continue to make progress reducing drilling days during the second and third quarter.
Year-to-date we’ve decreased our average drilling days by 12% in the Eagle Ford.
One final point we would caution those who used monthly Texas Railroad Commission's state data as a measure of company current production and a forecasting tool for future production.
Remember the State Data tends to lag and it’s potentially incomplete on a month-to-month basis for a variety of reasons.
To wrap up the Eagle Ford EOG’s long-term oil growth will be anchored by this world class asset where we are still improving well productivity through new completion designs and by lowering well costs.
I will now turn it over to David Trice to discuss EOG’s activity in the Permian.
Thanks Bill.
In the Delaware Basin we continue to test and drill step out wells to confirm the viability of each of our three plays across our acreage.
In the Wolfcamp we had exciting news in the third quarter.
After testing some of our Northern Delaware Basin acreage we confirm that a majority of it is in the highly over-pressured crude oil window where we expect the wells to be 50% crude oil.
We completed two upper Wolfcamp horizontal wells which flow 46 degree API gravity crude oil.
The Voyager 15 number 3H was completed at a maximum oil rate of 1 890 barrels of oil per day with 385 barrels per day of NGLs and 2.5 million cubic feet a day of natural gas from a 4 400 foot-treated lateral.
The well had a 30-day average rate of 1 500 barrels of oil per day with 365 barrel per day of NGLs and 2.3 million cubic feet of gas per day.
The Voyager is located along the Texas New Mexico Stateline in Loving County Texas.
EOG has a 48% working interest in this well.
The Diamond SM 36 State number 1H flowed at a maximum rate of 1 340 barrels of oil per day 195 barrels per day of NGLs and 1.3 million cubic feet of gas from a 2 200 foot-treated lateral.
This well is north of the Voyager in Lee County New Mexico in the heart of our Red Hills acreage and EOG has 100% working interest in this well.
We’ve done some preliminary G&amp;G work and have confirm that 90 000 net acres of our hydrated 140 000 net acres in the Delaware Wolfcamp are in a highly over-pressured crude oil window.
We plan to increase our Wolfcamp drilling activity in this crude oil window where we expect to achieve reinvestment returns much higher than the combo window and competitive with our second Bone Spring Sand and Leonard plays.
In the second Bone Springs Sand we drilled our third well in the Red Hills area during the third quarter.
It was a 20-mile step out from our first two wells to further confirm the viability of our acreage.
The State Magellan number 2H near the Stateline in Loving County Texas was completed with a 4 900 foot-treated lateral and flowed at a maximum rate of 1 825 barrels oil per day of 44 degree API gravity oil with associated production of 295 barrels of NGLs per day and 2.2 million cubic feet of gas per day.
These wells are 70% crude oil.
The State Magellan well gives us additional confidence in the plays they will extend and following additional geological work on our existing acreage we’ve increased the prospectivity of the second Bone Spring Sand to at least 90 000 net acres.
The Leonard Shale also continues to deliver solid well results.
In the third quarter we turned the State Pathfinder 1H to sales with the maximum rate of 1 370 barrels of oil per day 245 barrels per day of NGLs and 1.3 million cubic feet of gas per day.
The well was part of the 450 foot spacing test and has a 4800 foot-treated lateral.
Going forward we plan to develop the Leonard 300 to 450 foot spacing.
We've also modestly increased our holdings to 80 000 net acres in this play.
We plan to increase our activity in the Delaware Basin from four rigs at the end of the third quarter to eight rigs by year end.
We plan to drill additional wells in the Wolfcamp second Bone Spring Sand and Leonard then anticipate in our original plan.
To summarize our activity in the Delaware we had a very promising result after drilling our first two oil wells in the crude oil window in the Wolfcamp where we have 90 000 net acres.
With an additional data point we are getting further confidence in the second Bone Springs Sand and we continue to deliver excellent wells result from the Leonard even as we further downspace the wells.
With these three outstanding plays EOG is well-positioned for higher rate return crude oil growth in the Permian for many years.
I will now turn it over to Billy Helms to discuss the Bakken and the Rockies.
Thanks David.
We began our downspacing campaign in the Bakken Core at the beginning of the year by systematically testing spacing patterns starting at 1 300 feet between wells.
With confidence from the production profiles of the 1 300 foot spaced wells we begin testing 700 foot spacing earlier this year and now have data from the wells that have been producing for four to seven months.
Simultaneous with downspacing we have seen improvements in well productivity after introducing new completion technology to the field.
We are encouraged by early indications from the 700 foot spaced wells but we need additional time to assess the impact on long-term production reserves and ultimately the net present value.
We also have product spacing test with 500 foot and 300 foot patterns to determine the optimal spacing to maximize the net present value of the field.
We noted a number of new core wells in our press release the Parshall 44-1004H came on line at 2 710 barrels of oil per day with 875 Mcf per day of rich natural gas and the Parshall 46-1004H came on line at 2 105 barrels of oil per day with 860 Mcf per day of rich natural gas.
We have 69% working interest in both of these wells.
As we noted in our press release in the Antelope Extension area we had success from the Three Forks -- first second and third benches.
We completed our first well in the third bench of the Three Forks the Mandaree 134-05H which came on line at 1 410 barrels of oil per day with 2.2 million cubic feet of natural gas.
We have 70% working interest in this well.
We will continue testing the potential of the Three Forks across our Antelope acreage and we will expand our Three Forks testing in the core in 2015.
In the DJ Basin we completed our first seven-well development pattern on a multi-well pad consisting of four Niobrara and three Codell wells.
The wells were drilled with long laterals spaced at approximately 700 feet between wells in the same zone.
The seven wells came on line at a combined rate in excess of 7 800 barrels of oil per day with 5.4 million cubic feet per day of rich natural gas.
We have 75% working interest in these wells.
We plan to test spacing patterns in various completion tasks for the balance of the year.
Early production results verify initial type curves and provide confirmation of our EUR estimates.
This program is delivering consistent initial production rates of 1 000 barrels of oil per day per well.
We are rapidly climbing the operational learning curve in this play and expect to achieve our well cost targets in the near-term.
In the Powder River Basin we have maintained our one rig program and are on track to drill 34 net wells this year targeting the Parkman and Turner reservoirs.
In the Turner Sand we completed two wells the Mary's Draw 24-13H and 25-13H for a combined rate of 1 880 barrels of oil per day with 3.1 million cubic feet per day of rich natural gas.
We have one new well from the Parkman.
The Mary's Draw 412-1527H came on line at 1 190 barrels of oil per day with 270 Mcf per day of rich gas.
In Trinidad we are actively drilling out three net well development program which will allow us to maintain flat natural gas production in coming years.
I will now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Billy.
For the third quarter capitalized interest was $14.5 million.
Total cash exploration and development expenditures were $2.0 billion excluding asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $184 million.
Year-to-date total exploration and development expenditures were $5.8 million excluding asset retirement obligations.
Expenditures for gathering processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $587 million.
We had $17 million of proceeds from asset sales during the quarter and there were no acquisitions.
At the end of September total debt outstanding was $5.9 billion.
At September 30 we had $1.5 billion of cash on hand.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter was 36% and the deferred tax ratio was 81%.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with earnings press release for the fourth quarter and full year 2014.
For the fourth quarter and full year the effective tax rate is estimated to be 32% to 37% and 34% to 37% respectively.
We have also provided an estimated range of the dollar amount at current taxes that we expect to report during the fourth quarter and for the full year.
In terms of our hedge positions for the period November 1 through December 31 2014 EOG has crude oil financial price swap contracts in place for 192 000 barrels of oil per day at weighted average price of $96.15 per barrel.
For the first half of 2015 we have 47 000 barrels per day of crude oil hedge at an average price of $91.22 per barrel.
For the second half of 2015 EOG has 10 000 barrels per day of crude oil hedge at an average price of $89.98 per barrel.
These numbers exclude options that are exercisable by our counterparties.
For the month of December 2014 EOG has natural gas financial price swap contracts in place for 330 000 MMBtu per day at weighted average price of $4.55 per MMBtu.
For the period January 1 through December 31 2015 EOG has natural gas financial price swap contracts in place for 175 000 MMBtu per day at a weighted average price of $4.51 per MMBtu.
For the same period we have a 175 000 MMBtu per day of options that could be exercised by our counterparties at an average price of $4.51 per MMBtu for each month.
Now I will turn it back to Bill to discuss EOG’s overview for 2015 and provide the summary.
Thanks Tim.
Now for our 2015 overview.
Although our planning process won't be complete until the beginning of the year I want to provide some color regarding our 2015 capital allocation.
EOG has key positions in the top domestic crude oil plays.
We have tremendous reinvestment opportunities in the Eagle Ford Bakken and Delaware Basin that will generate after-tax rates of return of 100% or greater at $80 WTI.
We’ve added a new chart to our presentation showing the minimum oil price that would be required to generate a 10% direct after-tax rate of return.
At $40 oil we would still achieve a 10% direct after-tax rate of return in the Eagle Ford the Bakken/Three Forks and the Delaware plays.
Our 2015 plan is to manage a balanced CapEx cash flow program with CapEx plus dividends in line with cash flow.
Our strategy will remain the same.
EOG will be fiscally prudent with low net debt and a very strong balance sheet.
At $80 oil w should have sufficient cash flow to fully fund our Eagle Ford Bakken and Delaware Basin plays and sustain double-digit oil growth through 2017 and beyond.
We plan to invest in our highest return crude oil plays and reduce our activity in our combo plays.
We still expect to be a leader in organic growth -- crude oil growth next year.
The dividend continues to be a high priority.
Our Board remains committed to increasing shareholder return through both high return production growth and dividend growth.
Now let me conclude there are four important takeaways from this call.
First we talked about our key plays for a couple years the Eagle Ford Bakken and Delaware Basin Leonard.
Today’s call has highlighted these three plays and our ability to improve our results with leading-edge completion technology.
We continue to make better wells by lowering costs with self-sourced sand and drilling efficiencies.
Our excellent base of key plays keeps getting better.
Second as a result of continuous productivity improvement in the Eagle Ford and Delaware Basin we have increased our oil growth target for the second time this year.
Third we continue to organically add new high return plays to our drilling portfolio as well as high grading existing plays through improved completions enhanced targeting and the identification of sweet spots on our acreage.
The second Bone Spring Sand and Delaware Wolfcamp oil plays are good examples of this strategy.
Although we are expanding our portfolio the Eagle Ford will remain our foundation a high return production growth driver for many years.
And finally EOG is focused on returns and our large high-quality drilling portfolio still generates exceptional returns with $80 oil.
With best-in-class horizontal crude oil assets and a strong balance sheet EOG will continue to be a leader in absolute organic U.S.
crude oil production growth in 2015 and beyond.
Thanks for listening.
And now we will go to Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for all the additional color on the presentation this morning.
Bill I have got one question on CapEx and maybe one for Billy on Permian.
On CapEx you guys have become very well-known as living within cash flow.
Obviously with the oil price down and given some fairy consistent production guidance for next year how should we think about your spending relative to cash flow given your strong balance sheet? Do you intend to still live within cash flow or would you allow the spending to go up a little bit given the strength of your balance sheet? Yes good morning Doug.
And thanks for the question.
Next year we need to be thinking about continuing to have a very strong balance sheet.
And as we talked about in opening remarks our capital spending plus the dividend will be balanced our cash flow.
So the discipline spending fundamentals of the company are not going to change as we go forward.
And we’re only focused in reinvesting in highest return plays.
And we are not really interested in exceeding cash flow by trying to accelerate production in the combo plays or certainly not the gas plays.
So I guess just to be clear I mean I guess the overall level of activity though and the overall price environment is it fair to assume that the overall drilling activity would have to slow? So I’m guessing bigger wells but fewer wells if you see what I mean? Yeah.
As we look just -- let's just assume Doug if we have an $80 oil environment next year we’re going to be have enough cash flow to fully fund our Eagle Ford Bakken and our Delaware program.
So all of those programs generate in excess of 100% rate of return at $80 oil.
What we would cut back on is the combo plays certainly the Barnett Combo some of our drilling in South Texas in the Mid-Continent in East Texas and even in the Permian where we have the Wolfcamp Combo.
We would not spend as much money in those.
But we need to be thinking that we would fully fund the Eagle Ford the Bakken and the Delaware Basin plays and that we would have very strong double-digit production growth next year oil growth and we would continue to be a leader in organic oil growth in the U.S.
Thanks for that.
My follow-up hopefully quickly is on Permian.
I guess first of all congratulations on your very strong results there.
It’s been underlying by the step-up in the rig count.
But I think historically you’ve raised some question about infrastructure constraints.
So I’m just wondering with your move to four to eight rigs do you not believe this result any restrictions on EOG or is that still an issue for the basin as a whole now even there? Thank you.
Doug this is David.
On the Permian the great thing is we've got three plays there they’re all really high rate of return.
And they’re each slightly different.
And so we've got a lot of options there as far as play selection.
For instance the Second Bone Spring Sand tends to be a lower QR play and so that gives us a lot of options if there is any type of gas takeaway restrictions or anything.
So we’ve got a lot of options -- we’ve got a lot of options on the marketing side.
I’ll let Lance follow up with the marketing question.
Yeah Doug just to follow up on -- I mean it’s very encouraging on the midstream infrastructure that’s going to be come online especially over the next year or so.
We’ve really aligned ourselves with the new capacity that’s going to be coming online.
So it might be a little bit of potential as the new timing comes on.
It could be a little tight but we’ve contracted ourselves and aligned ourselves with a lot of these midstream providers that we feel at this time are going to be in good shape.
I appreciate the answers guys.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll take our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
I was hoping that you could kind of talk to a little bit of a dynamics around your fourth quarter U.S.
oil production guidance.
Kind of looking at what you guys have laid out my math is indicating about the 0 to 2% sequential oil growth in U.S.
You guys did about 7% in the third quarter versus 2Q sequential growth.
Can you maybe just kind of address why the lower growth on the fourth quarter? Yeah.
Good morning Doug -- I mean Leo.
That’s a good question.
Thank you for that.
In the fourth quarter our production growth is really highly predicated on timing of the completions.
And so we have a good number of wells.
The majority of the wells will come on very late in the quarter and most of them -- a lot of them will be in December.
So when you bring them on late in the year obviously they don’t add as much impact to the quarter.
Okay.
That’s helpful for sure.
I guess in terms of the Permian plays it looks like you guys certainly have made a step forward there recently.
I guess couple just sort of quick questions around that.
Just trying to get a sense of kind of what kind of inning you’re in there? I mean obviously you’ve been at the Eagle Ford for quite a bit longer than the Delaware Basin.
And additionally can you maybe talk to potential improvements there that you might see down the road in EURs and well cost? And is there any potential to add more acreage? Yeah.
Leo this is David.
I would say on the Permian we've been very deliberate on testing new zones and testing the extent to these other plays.
And I would say we’re very early on.
We’re probably third or fourth inning if you want to put it in baseball terms.
And so we’re going to continue to aggressively test these new zones and the extent of these plays and test the spacing of these plays.
And potentially to go to your second part of your question with oil prices at $8o there is potential going forward that we could add some acreage.
That’s really helpful.
Thanks guys.
The next question is from Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
There was an interesting inflation point coming in terms of free cash flows to you guys.
And now we’ve had this inflation point with the oil price.
I think what you’re saying clearly is that you will have trimmed back your CapEx in some of the more marginal areas.
If oil prices were surprising the upside next year would you be pushing perhaps towards generating free cash flow for cash return to shareholders? Or do you think you'd reaccelerate your activity? Thanks.
Yeah.
Thank you Paul.
Good morning.
Good morning.
As we think about 2015 obviously our goal is to fully fund the Eagle Ford Bakken and the Permian plays but those very high returns.
But we’re going to also continue to be very committed to the dividend and dividend growth.
We’ve had 15 years that we’ve increased the dividend 16 times in 15 years and we don’t expect that pattern to decrease as we go forward.
So we're always focused on returning value to the shareholders through that way.
Obviously with better prices next year that would help us to fully fund more drilling but we’re very confident even with the low price environment we’re going to be able to have very strong double-digit growth going forward and continue to be a leader in U.S.
organic production growth.
I guess my point was you’re already a leader in the organic production growth.
Wouldn’t you be now in the situation where at the margin you would be looking for even more rapid increases in cash return as opposed to extending your leading growth? Yeah.
I think that’s something that our Board will certainly consider as we go forward.
And there obviously as we look at the commodity price next year the higher the price the more flexibility.
We’ll have to work on the dividend as well as increase drilling activity in some of other plays.
Sure.
I’ve got you.
And then the second follow-up question is that we’ve had an interesting announcement from BHP today with regards to exports.
I assume it’s not a coincidence at the same time as the Republicans taken control of the Senate.
Can you just give your perspective on that move and what it means to you? Thank you.
Hey Paul.
It’s Lance.
Obviously we’re closely watching everything that’s going on out in the market.
But a lot of what you’re seeing is on ultralight oil which is very high gravity condensate.
And we look at our three big plays essentially EOG has very very little condensate.
So we really have an ability to blend -- the condensating with our crude oil so kind of a follow-up there.
We are going to continue to watch it and strike as necessary? But the actual export is less relevant to you as such in terms of your own activity.
That’s correct Paul.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Joe Allman with J.P.
Morgan.
Thank you Operator and good early morning everybody.
Good morning Joe.
So just a clarification on the plans for 2015 spending.
So are you saying that you plan to spend within the cash flow from operations or potentially would you be contemplating some assets sales and help fund some CapEx? Yes Joe.
We are going to keep the cash flow in balance with the CapEx plus the dividend.
But also we’ve sold properties over the years and that is something that we will be considering next year also those.
Obviously the kind of non core properties properties that will help us to be more efficient as the company reducing LOE cost and properties that don’t have scale that don’t have maybe the potential of some of the others.
So yeah that will be part of our plans next year is continue to sell additional properties.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then a follow-up.
In the Eagle Ford the high-density frac results were pretty impressive.
So what are the main parameters around the high-density fracs that really give you that uplift from even early this year production results? Yeah.
These are new techniques Joe and they are experimental and really proprietary.
So we don’t want to give out a lot of details on what we are doing other than to say that we’ve made significant improvement in distributing the frac more evenly along the lateral.
And that has contacted more rock and we have this one example in our IR book.
It’s on slide 26.
You may want to look at that in detail.
But it shows 2014 wells the kind of the current completion practices versus several of these high-density fracs in close proximity.
The wells are in close proximity and there is a 39% increase in the first 60-days.
So we are very excited about it.
And we’ve only completed high-density fracs on really kind of a handful of wells.
So as we go forward this gives us a lot of encouragement that there is still considerable room left to go in the Eagle Ford and really all this plays on improvements and completion technology.
All right.
Very impressive.
Thank you Bill.
Our next question is from Bob Brackett with Sanford C.
Bernstein.
If we stayed in a lower crude price environment through next year what would your interest be in acquiring distressed assets or operators that might be in trouble? Good morning Bob.
Yes good question.
EOG is our focus and our success has been really generating new potential through organic exploration and we see no lack of opportunity in that direction.
And those were able to generate -- we generated five new plays this year.
And we have a good list going forward that we have -- we are hopeful we will be good addition to the company at very low cost.
And so the acquisition businesses as you all know historically there is a lot of competition in M&amp;As and acquisitions and usually they turn out to be very very low return.
So we are going continue to maintain our focus on growing the company organically through exploration and low-cost acreage acquisitions in that process Okay.
Thanks.
And you’ve had a couple competitors talk about East Taxes a bit more in the last quarter.
You’ve got a position up there how does that stack in your portfolio or is it still too early to know? Bob.
That’s again a yes.
It's too early to know there.
And we as everybody knows we are drilling wells there and we are testing concepts.
And when we have meaningful results on that we will be able to update everybody on.
But it’s still really early and as we’ve talked about before we have a very high cutoff because our asset quality is so strong in the company.
We are not interested in going forward with plays that would generate less than a 50% return.
So we are working on only plays and spending a lot of money in going forward with very high-quality play.
So we are taking our time and we’ll let everybody know when we have some meaningful results.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Yes.
Hey guys.
This is really interesting.
So it’s becoming sort of a mining operation.
So I am curious as to as you continue to improve these resource plays for example in the Eagle Ford what percent recovery we are up to like right now our with your assessments? Yeah.
Good morning Irene.
In the Eagle Ford we have quit giving a percent recovery factor there because we are still I think trying to relook at what the oil in places there.
But it’s certainly going up all the time.
And we continue as we showed and demonstrated in some of the charts and we’ve talked about this morning.
We continue to make very significant increases in the completion technology and being able just to contact more rock along the lateral and keep the contact closer to the wellbore so that we can drill additional wells closer together as you go forward and So we think we are in about the sixth inning in the Eagle Ford and so there is a lot of room left to go there.
Great.
If I have one follow-up I’m going to hit you up on your macro view in this very volatile time? Are you talking about the price of oil? Yeah.
Oil gas yeah because usually you guys would have few lines on that.
Yeah.
We are pretty good at some things but the world oil supply demand situation is not an area that we have a lot of expertise in.
And a special insight and we read a lot of the same reports and follow the same analytics that many of you do and we are going to kind of leave it up to them to kind of give direction to others a lot of opinions out there on what oil prices could do.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning.
Good morning Pearce.
What level of flexibility do you have regarding oil services like rigs and completion crudes et cetera in your contracts if you need to adjust activity in a low oil price environment? Yes Pears.
Good question.
We have about 33% about a third of our frac spreads are under long-term contracts.
And about 50% of our drilling rigs are under long-term contracts companywide.
So we have a lot of flexibility to lower activity if we need to or increase activity if that is wanted.
And we also have a lot of flexibility to take advantages of any kind of price decreases that may happen and we are already beginning to see especially in the frac equipment business and we are already seeing some price reductions and certainly if prices stay at these levels we could see a bit more that going forward.
Thank you.
And then my follow-up is under a low oil price environment will you prioritize away from exploration and focus more on development? And then as a leader how do you balance the need for exploration to drive future growth of the company with lower cash flows and the need to maybe focus on development? On that Pearce as we go forward and if we stay in a fairly low price environment we don’t really expect to pullback on much of our exploration efforts because they are really really low cost.
Our entry cost on these plays is extremely low because we are upfront in areas where nobody really else is looking.
So we don’t expect to have a significant pullback on that.
We are generating significant amount of new inventory each year.
This year we’ve generated two times the amount of drilling inventory that we’ve actually drilled this year some of that of course is in the existing plays but again already generated in new plays too.
So the company is a very prolific organic prospect generating machine.
And we think it’s -- we can continue to do that as very very low cost.
As we -- in the last few years our exploration costs have been relatively low in the company and a very small part of our budget.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Arun Jayaram of Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Bill I wanted to get your thoughts on the overall development strategy from here in the Eagle Ford? I know you have 6 000 locations you’re drilling 520 540 wells per annum? So I just wanted to get your thoughts on how you develop it from here? I guess the reason I ask that question is I have noted that you have down shifted activity in the last couple of quarters in Gonzales County.
And perhaps increase some activity on the western side of the play (indiscernible).
So just trying to get some thoughts on how do you move playing on the rigs news et cetera? Yeah.
Good morning Arun.
Thank you for that question.
As we go forward the mix of wells in the Eagle Ford will be relatively what they have been in the last several quarters.
And in the third quarter it is about 52% of wells were in the west and 48% were in the east.
And as we look going forward that mix will stay about the same.
We did drill in the third quarter some retention wells and holding some of that acreage that with the kind of classify this that less than 60% a-tax rate of return kind of acreage.
So we just drilled the initial wells on that to hold that we don’t plan on developing that acreage anytime soon going forward but we wanted to hold it.
But just directionally the mix of well should be relatively consistent with what we’ve been doing in the last several quarters.
Okay.
Just to clarify that Bill.
Q3 perhaps the mix of wells was towards a lower rate of return then typical on lease retention and you expect that to normalize maybe going forward is that fair? Yes.
We drilled 28 wells to do lease excuse me lease retention in some of those lower returns acreage in the third quarter and going forward we don’t have that many wells planned to do that going forward.
So that will drop off as we go forward.
That’s very helpful.
My follow-up Bill you’ve talked about expanding opportunity set in the Delaware you’re moving from four to eight rigs by year end.
So just wanted to ask you do you think you have the appropriate level of scale in the Delaware are there opportunities through leasing where you like to get a little bit bigger in the Delaware?  Yeah.
Arun this is David.
And we have got -- we have laid out the three big plays that we announced today.
And those -- we have numerous locations in those.
We have many many years of drilling just in those plays.
And like I said before we’ve been very delivered about testing new ideas and continuing to push the boundaries of these existing plays.
So I think we have plenty of scale there in the Delaware Basin.
Thank you very much.
And we’ll take the next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Without trying to tie you down to your production or CapEx guidance from next year.
In the plays you do plan to focus on Eagle Ford the Bakken the Delaware Basin? Can you run through how you see required spending from HBP or infrastructure versus discretionary spending evolving next year i.e.
what efficiency gains do you see on the horizon or you could keep the growth engine running without having spend as much capital and perhaps some estimate for how much capital that that could represent? Yeah Brian.
Thanks for the question.
As far as acreage retention or explorations we have very little requirements in that area.
For example this year at the end of the year in the Eagle Ford will be 80% of our acreage is HBP and by the end of 2015 it will be 95%.
So the actual retention drilling in the Eagle will be less next year than it is this year.
And then in the Permian we have just a little bit that we have to do for retention drilling and in the Bakken it’s all held our production.
So we have a lot of flexibility to make sure that we are focusing on drilling and on high return.
And so there was another part of your question you have to remind me again what was that? Yeah.
Infrastructure just a bit of the same question for infrastructure and each of those areas do you see your infrastructure needs to support growth rising or falling? Yeah.
No.
That’s a good question.
We see I think next year a bit less spending in infrastructure than we did this year.
Because again a lot of the infrastructure this year was in the Eagle Ford and we were doing a lot of step out or retention drilling and we have to build out through that is that by fault the need for infrastructure is less.
Great.
Thanks.
And then if well performance is driving your stronger than guided your production results do you see your rates of return in the Eagle Ford Bakken and Delaware improving as a result and in each of those areas how much would you attribute to greater first year production versus greater overall recoveries versus better production mix? Yes.
As the well productivity increases with the completion designs it is very additive to the return.
So as you bring the oil obviously forward quicker the returns go up and we are also able to continue to lower costs at the same time too and be more efficient in that area.
So rates of return given the confident commodity price are improving.
And to your point you are pushing up production earlier on with the completion technique with -- which might be a little bit different than you are recovering more overall? Yeah.
I think the Brian this is Billy Helms.
I think I would also add to that is yeah Bill is right the rate of return is certainly increasing we are increasing the initial production rates too but we are also increasing the recoveries of the wells.
So overall recovery is going up too.
So we are not just accelerating early time production at the sake of longer term production.
We are seeing an uplift of overall curve.
Great.
Thank you.
We will go next to David Tameron with Wells Fargo Securities.
Hi.
Good morning Bill.
Question can you guys talk about what you -- how you complete these wells in the Permian.
I know you had one of those little yellow boxes on one of the slides you talked about your advance completion technology.
So I imagine you don’t want to give all the secrets but can you give us like same framework around the way you complete this? Yeah David in the Permian just like we do in all the other plays it’s a constant experiment.
Eagle Ford you’ve seen a track record that we had there.
We just continue to experiment and to push this.
So lot of the techniques that we’ve learned in these other plays have been applied in Permian.
Like Bill mentioned earlier we don’t want to give out any specific details on that but we do spend a lot of time experimenting with each play and each plays a little bit different.
But we’ve got a good process in place.
Any reason that the 4500 plus lateral versus longer laterals you should have got to that yet or just -- is there anything you comment on that is that your larger curve.
Could you talk about that? Your question is why don’t we drill longer laterals? Yeah.
Have you tried the longer laterals? And it seems like just most of the stuff you mentioned at least in the slide that was on the shorter 4500 foot? I mean each play is different and so we’ve done longer laterals both in the Delaware and in the Midland Basin.
And it just depends on the cost of drilling the added footage and then also the performance of the wells.
And so what we’ve generally seen is at least they are in the Delaware Basin that we tend to prefer to go with more with 5 000 to 4500 foot lateral.
It also helps -- it tends to be kind of the resized configuration as well.
Okay.
And then just back to the Eagle Ford I think it was Bill that you mentioned RSC data.
Can you give us any framework just around what the Eagle Ford is doing as far as overall basin production quarter-over-quarter sequentially or can you give us anything along those lines? David no I don’t have that in front of me right now.
We have to get back with you on that.
You’re talking about the whole field for all operators.
Yeah -- no just for your specific Eagle Ford.
I mean there is so much concern about Eagle Ford production levels.
I was just looking for some -- directionally there are some type of comfort I guess you gave us on your end? Yeah.
No I mean again we’ve talked about -- we’ve got a 10-year growth profile in the Eagle Ford as we go forward.
And we’re on target for that pretty consistent.
We’re drilling 540 wells this year and again the mix of wells that we drill going forward will be relatively the same.
So we’re planning a long-term growth profile there.
All right.
I’ll go back there.
Thanks.
Appreciate it.
The next question is from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good morning Bill and to the rest of your team there.
Good morning.
I was wondering if I could go back to the Three Forks and get you guys to maybe decompose a bit that the results you’re seeing there and what I’m really curious about in the end is there any chance for the Three Forks.
I know it’s already pretty high in the stack of your play but is there a chance forward to move higher and get bigger.
And I guess the little bit of detail to add there is the rates you gives have on those main three wells are good but they will be more impressive when you look at the lateral lengths you guys had on them.
And as I understand the lot of Three Forks is kind of being puzzling the people and some times there is undifferentiated log responses hard to predict what’s going to be good what’s not.
So can you talk about what the prospects for that to grow in your portfolio are? Yeah Charles this is Billy Helms.
On the Three Forks we’re probably going a little bit slower than we are relative to the Bakken.
Most of our activity in that area will be focused on Bakken because that is what we consider the higher rate of return the more consistent development play in that program.
In the Three Forks however we do realize the potential in that play and we are anxious to get some more test.
And as you can see what the results we’ve had this quarter they are all testing out fairly strong.
Let’s say we’re still delineating what the ultimate extent of that play will be across our acreage position and what each zone will contribute across the acreage position.
So I think we’re still a little bit early in that play.
And again most of our activity will be focused on the Bakken as we go forward.
I think there is -- we're certainly pleased with the upside we see there.
And we will continue to test that with some encouragement from these wells.
Thank you Billy.
We’ll go next to Matt Portillo with TPH.
Good morning.
Good morning Matt.
Just two quick questions for me.
My first question revolves around your international asset basis.
Wondering if you could give us an update on your thoughts around the East Irish Sea and the production potential coming on stream in 2015? Yeah on our Conwy project that’s going to coming on in the second quarter of 2015.
And what we expect there is that we’ll have a kind of ramp-up phase and probably max out at around about 20 000 barrels a day for couple of months there.
Great.
And then I guess just back on the CapEx question.
As we look at your programs for 2014 is there any color you could provide us in terms of the capital you’re spending currently this year on assets outside of the main three you talked about the Eagle Ford the Delaware and the Bakken maybe that would help us with some other context as we head into 2015 from an expectation perspective? Matt we have active drilling programs or one rig program in the Barnett Combo.
We have a rig or two running in the mid-continent.
A couple of rigs running in the East Texas and a couple of rigs running in South Texas.
So we do have activity this year outside the Eagle Ford the Bakken and the Permian plus we also as we talked about early in the year of these new plays in the Rockies we’re running a rig or two in the Powder River.
And I believe we’re running two rigs in the DJ.
Actually there is four rigs in the DJ Basin.
So we have quite a bit of activity in plays outside of the core plays.
Thank you very much.
It’s very helpful.
This concludes today’s question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to today’s speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thank you very much for listening and for your continued support.
And I just like to say and concluding that we’re confident as we head into 2015 and been with the company for 35 years.
Every time we go to one of these price cycles EOG outperforms and we come out of that price cycle in better shape than we entered it.
So the company is in great shape with a sweet spot and the best role is on the plays in the U.S.
and along with our low cost in our industry-leading technology.
EOG is going to be strong performer in the yeas to come and a leader in the U.S.
oil growth.
So again thank you for listening.
This concludes today’s call.
Thank you for your participation.
Please standby.
Good day and welcome to the EOG Resources’ Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Chief Financial Officer of EOG Resources Tim Driggers.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release and Investor Relations page of our website.
Participating on the call this morning are Bill Thomas Chairman and CEO; Gary Thomas Chief Operating Officer; Billy Helms EVP Exploration and Production; David Trice EVP Exploration and Production; Lance Terveen VP Marketing; and Cedric Burgher Senior VP Investor and Public Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website yesterday evening and we included guidance for the first quarter and full year 2015 in yesterday's press release.
This morning we will discuss topics in the following order.
Bill Thomas will review 2014 highlights and our 2015 capital plan David Trice and Billy Helms will review operational results and year-end reserve replacement data.
Then I’ll discuss EOG's financials capital structure and hedge position and Bill will provide concluding remarks.
Now here is Bill Thomas.
Thank you Tim.
2014 was another record year for EOG.
Our results continue to demonstrate our return-focused capital discipline and EOG’s superior ability to apply technology to the exploration and development of [tight] plays.
Here are the highlights.
Number one EOG demonstrated its capital efficiency by earnings peer leading returns.
ROE for 2014 was 16% and ROCE was 14%.
For the year we increased crude oil production by 31% driven by our top three oil plays the Eagle Ford Bakken and Delaware Basin.
NGL production increased 23% and natural gas production held flat yielding total company production growth of 17%.
We announced five new plays four in the Rockies DJ and Powder River Basins and the Second Bone Spring Sand play on the Delaware basin side of the Permian.
These plays add flexibility to our portfolio of options to grow production in the coming years.
Also in the Delaware Basin we identified an oil window in our existing Wolfcamp acreage.
Early in 2014 we increased the reserve potential in the Eagle Ford to 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent to 3.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent net to EOG.
Between that Eagle Ford reserve increase and the new Rockies play alone we added 1.4 billion barrels of potential reserves to our portfolio and 2300 high return net drilling locations.
In recent years we have consistently added twice as many locations as we drilled.
Finally EOG remained laser focused on cost by driving down per well expenses in all of our major plays while simultaneously driving up well productivity.
Before I move on to 2015 I would like to expand on that last highlight.
We have demonstrated a unique ability to get the most out of tight oil plays from both a cost and well productivity standpoint.
Over the last 10 years we have developed expertise over all the disciplines required to drill in shale and other tight rocks and make that drilling highly economical.
This proven ability is why we posted strong returns in 2014 and why we are so well positioned to not only weather the current low price environment but to take advantage of it.
So now let us talk about EOG’s goals for 2015.
First our overarching goal this year is to prepare for oil price recovery.
It is clear that current prices are too low to meet the world’s supply needs and the market will rebalance.
We would be ready to respond swiftly when oil prices improve and resume our leadership and high return oil growth.
Second we do not believe that growing oil in what could turn out to be a short cycle low price environment is the right thing to do.
And let me repeat we do not believe that growing oil in what could turn out to be a short cycle low price environment is the right thing to do.
We remain committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet at today’s scrip prices.
2015 cash flows should fund our CapEx budget of approximately $5 billion.
Third returns are what matter.
Therefore we will focus capital on the Eagle Ford Bakken and Delaware Basin plays.
At $55 oil these premier assets deliver a direct after-tax rate of return greater than 35% without factoring in the potential for additional service cost reductions.
I will now explain in further detail how we plan to prepare for the oil price recovery.
First we will reduce average rigs 50% down to 27% for 2015 and intentionally delay any of our completions building a significant inventory of approximately 350 uncompleted wells.
This allows EOG to use rigs under existing commitments and when prices improve we will be poised to ramp up completions.
Oil price improvement of even a few dollars generates incremental MPV.
So delaying completions and wait for improved prices as evidenced by the forward curve will add significant value.
Please see Slide 8 of our investor presentation for a play specific example.
Second we remain focused on driving down finding costs and improving per well production rates.
This is our best hedge against low oil prices.
For example as a result of cost and oil productivity improvements in the Eagle Ford Western acreage we can now generate better returns with $65 oil than we did with $95 oil just two or three years ago.
We illustrate this on Slide 11 of the investor presentation.
Due to low oil prices we have already seen service cost reductions in many areas and see the potential for 10% to 30% vendor savings during this downturn.
Additionally every one of our plays has room to reduce cost further through ongoing efficiency gains.
We believe our integrated approach to completion technology is industry leading.
Quarter after quarter we make improvements to well productivity and that will continue to be a high priority this year for EOG.
Third low oil prices mean unique opportunities to add low-cost high-quality acreage.
We will continue to grow our acreage portfolio through leasehold farm-in or tactical acquisitions.
We view our strong balance sheet and excess liquidity as a strategic asset for opportunities in times like these.
We are already benefiting from the oil down cycle adding new leases at lower cost than last year and we are optimistic that additional opportunities will become available.
Finally in my 36 years with the company I have seen many downturns and each time EOG stays disciplined performs well and emerges on the other side in better shape than we entered it.
in 2015 EOG plans to build a stronger position and be ready to resume long-term high return production growth when prices improve.
I will now address the Eagle Ford.
David Trice will discuss the Permian Basin and Billy Helms will provide an update on the Bakken and Rockies plays along with a review of our year-end reserves.
2014 was another remarkable year in Eagle Ford.
Oil production from the play increased 45% and EOG achieved several key milestones.
Number one down spacing and improved completion techniques enabled us to increase our total potential reserve estimate in 2014 by 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent to 3.2 billion barrels equivalent net to EOG.
We continue to advance our technical expertise as evidenced by ongoing improvements in productivity across the field.
Slide 17 in our updated investor presentation shows an 8% increase in productivity for wells completed in 2014 versus 2013.
We continue our progress with high density completions across the entire play.
A high density completion is simply various techniques used to maximize the amount of rock connected to the well bore.
Due to geologies those techniques will change from one county to the next and we are making progress determining how to tweak those techniques across our acreage.
Number four after five years in the Eagle Ford we are still making drilling time and cost improvements.
Please see Slide 18 in the investor presentation.
And number five at the end of 2014 our acreage in the Eagle Ford was over 80% held by production.
We had a number of lease retention commitments in our Western acreage that we successfully fulfilled in 2014 bringing up drilling flexibility going forward.
Eagle Ford activity in 2015 will continue to be balanced between the West and East sides of the field.
As I mentioned we are intentionally delaying completions while we wait for improved [oil prices].
Thus our inventory of uncompleted well is expected to increase.
This strategy allows us to maximize the value of our existing contractual commitments while waiting on improved pricing before we bring on newly completed wells with high oil production rates.
Delaying completions will also provide an opportunity to take advantage of lower service costs that will likely materialize in the coming months.
The Eagle Ford remains EOG’s premier play.
We have about 5500 net oils to drill on our acreage and over 10 years of inventory.
The Eagle Ford represents a huge call option on oil that EOG can exercise at any time to take advantage of a favorable oil price environment.
We often refer to the Eagle Ford as our technology laboratory.
Our understanding of this field and how to increase its recovery rate has led to improvements in plays across the entire company.
The first to benefit from this technology transfer was the Bakken beginning in late 2012 and now the Permian Basin is experiencing the latest step change in our application of technology.
I will now turn it over to David Trice to discuss activities in the Permian.
Thanks Bill.
In 2015 EOG’s capital budget in the Permian will expand to take advantage of new Delaware Basin targets advancements in well performance and cost reductions achieved in 2014.
If you will recall last year we shifted capital from the Midland Basin to the Delaware Basin which allowed us to advance our technical understanding of the Delaware.
In 2015 we will have fewer drilling commitments to hold acreage in the Midland Basin which frees up capital and provides more flexibility.
Let us quickly review the 2014 achievements that set this play up to be major contributor to EOG’s returns and long-term growth.
First we made significant advancements in our most mature oil play in the Delaware Basin the Leonard Shale by increasing oil productivity 17%.
In 2015 we will continue to push wells closer together developing and further testing down to 300 feet.
We are encouraged with the initial results and expect to see further advancements throughout the year.
Second in our Delaware Basin Wolfcamp play we made great progress in 2014 as the play moved into development mode.
We greatly increased well productivity as evidenced by the three wells we highlight in our press release.
At $7 million completed well cost the Wolfcamp play delivers very strong returns.
Also in the Wolfcamp during 2014 we identified and delineated 90 000 new acres in the oil window.
Third we tested and improved the second Bone Spring Sand to be another high return oil direct in our Delaware Basin acreage.
Initial results were promising and we did extensive G&amp;G work to delineate this play.
The second Bone Spring Sand produced 70% oil in our Red Hills acreage in Mexico and promises returns on par with our premier oil plays.
We will move the second Bone Spring Sand into development mode this year and it will receive the largest relative increase in capital.
In summary the Leonard Shale is in full development mode and continues to deliver impressive results.
The Delaware Basin Wolfcamp finished its first year of development drilling the wells are outstanding and the costs are dropping and we are excited to have the second Bone Spring Sand to the drilling program and bring it forward into full development mode.
We are confident that we will see the same progress in the second Bone Spring Sand that we have seen from the Leonard Shale over the last two years.
While the Delaware Basin is still in the early innings of its exploration and development the returns we are already generating from multiple targets to make it very competitive with Eagle Ford and the Bakken.
Billy Helms will now discuss the Bakken the Rockies and year-end reserves.
Thanks David.
2014 was a successful year for the Bakken program.
We began down spacing testing various spacing patterns and continued experimenting with completion techniques to improve the performance of the field.
Here are some of the highlights for 2014 activity.
First we made significant advancements in improving drilling times and reducing well cost.
A typical 10 000 foot lateral is now drilled in just over 10 days with a completed well cost of $9.3 million.
This represents a cost reduction of 11% from 2013 and we expect more efficiency gains and service cost reductions in the current environment.
Second we now have production data from each of the various spacing patterns and began to determine the optimal development plan.
We have tested wells at 1300 foot 700 foot and 500 foot spacing patterns and have just started producing oils in the 300 foot spacing pattern.
Similar to the Eagle Ford we expect that the spacing will vary depending on the specific rock characteristics in each area of the field.
One of our latest test is a 6 well pattern with wells spaced 700 feet apart in the Bakken core.
The initial production rates of these wells range from 1000 barrels of oil per day to 1900 barrels of oil per day and represent a customized completion design tailored for the rock properties in this particular area of the field.
Third we are confident that there is a significant amount of remaining potential in the Bakken and that down spacing will be highly economic.
As I mentioned earlier evaluating the production from each spacing pattern will lead us to the appropriate spacing and the ultimate reserve potential.
While the Bakken will receive less capital in 2015 it remains a core high return asset in our drilling program.
A typical 10 000 foot lateral in the Bakken core generates greater than 35% after tax rate of return with a $55 flat oil price.
In addition maintaining activity allows us to retain momentum on operational efficiencies.
For example we recently drilled an 18 600 foot well to total depth in just over seven days.
We continue to believe that EOG has the premier acreage position in the play with many years of development drilling remaining and the potential for long-term production growth.
In the DJ Basin EOG made significant progress in both the Codell and Niobrara.
We’ve been experimenting with web or targeting inter well spacing and modifications to the completion design for both intervals.
For the Codell we’ve identified a specific statrographic interval within the pay section that when targeted rightly enhances the performances of the well.
The improved completion techniques we used are even more effective when we focus o this target.
Please see our press release for notable well results.
Back to Codell we’ve tested several targets within the Niobrara.
With this additional testing we’ve determined a correlation between the amount of lateral focused within a specific target interval and the protection performance of the well.
In 2014 we made progress in several areas that contributed to reaching our well and operating cost wells in the DJ Basin.
These include drilling and completion efficiencies and oil and gas gathering system and water gathering and distribution system and the infrastructure needed to obtain EOG self-source sand.
Our activity in the 2015 in the DJ Basin will be limited drilling wells needed to maintain leasehold and finishing completion operations on a few remaining wells drilled last year.
The Powder River Basin is stack pay system we’ve drilled primarily in apartment and tunnel oil reservoirs similar to other areas within EOG’s portfolio.
In 2014 we focused on well targeting and completion designs and inter well spacing to determine the optimal development plan.
We made significant improvements in all aspects during 2014.
Please see our press release for some excellent fourth quarter well results in both department and internal place.
We plan to have limited activity in the Powder River Basin in 2015 while we wait for commodity prices to improve.
I’ll now address reserve replacements and planning cost.
Excluding revisions due to commodity price changes we replaced 249% of our 2014 production at a low planning cost of $13.25 per Boe.
Proved reserves increased 18% and more than half of our reserve growth was driven by proved.
In addition net proved developed reserves increased 20%.
For the 27 consecutive year the DeGolyer and MacNaughton did an independent engineering analysis of our reserves.
And their estimate was within 5% of our internal estimate.
Their analysis covered about 76% of our proved reserves this year.
Please see the schedules accompanying the earnings press release for the calculation of reserve replacements and finding cost.
I’ll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Billy.
Let me start by addressing an unusual item affecting the fourth quarter.
In early December we announced the sale of most of our producing assets in Canada the proceeds of approximately of $400 million.
As a result volumes were lower than our previous guidance for the fourth quarter by approximately 2 300 barrels of oil per day and 15 million cubic feet per day of natural gas.
Also G&amp;A for the quarter was higher due to $21.5 million of exit costs related to the sale.
Now I’d like to make a few comments about our capital spending last year and in the fourth quarter.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $14.5 million for the fourth quarter 2014 total expirations and development expenditures were $1.8 billion excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plans and other property plant and equipment were $140 million.
There were $66 million of acquisitions during the quarter.
For the full year 2014 capitalized interest was $57.2 million.
Total expiration and development expenditures were $7.6 billion excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plans and other property plant and equipment were $727 million.
For the full year capital expenditures excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligations were $8.3 billion.
Total cash flow from operations was $8.6 billion exceeding total cash expenditures.
In addition proceeds from asset sales were $569 million.
Total acquisitions for the year were $139 million.
At year-end total debt outstanding was $5.9 million for debt to total capitalization ratio of 25%.
Taking into $2.1 billion of cash on hand at year-end net debt to total cap was 18% down from 23% at year end 2013.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 total impairments were $536 million $445 million of these impairments were the result of significant declines in commodity prices during the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2014 total impairments were $744 million $501 million of these impairments result the declines in commodity prices and negotiated sales prices of property sales.
The remaining impairments for both the fourth quarter and full year 2014 were ongoing lease and producing property impairments.
The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 61% and the deferred tax ratio was 104%.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with our earnings press release for the first quarter and full year 2015.
Our 2015 CapEx estimate is $4.9 billion to $5.1 billion excluding acquisitions.
The expiration and development portion excluding facilities will account for approximately 80% of the total CapEx budget.
2015 CapEx represents a 40% decrease from 2014.
As Bill mentioned earlier we’re not interested in growing oil production in a low price environment.
The budget for expiration and development facilities accounts for approximately 12% of the total CapEx budget for 2015 and midstream accounts for 8% we plan to concentrate our spending on infrastructure in the Eagle Ford and Delaware Basin to support our drilling programs in those areas and enhance operating efficiencies.
In terms of hedges for February 1 thru June 30 2015 we’ve 47 000 barrels of oil per day hedged at $91.22 per barrel.
For the second half of 2015 we’ve 10 000 barrels of oil per day hedged at $89.98 per barrel.
This represents a small portion of our estimated oil production in 2015 and we’ll look to hedge further volumes opportunistically throughout the year.
We’ve contracts outstanding for 37 000 barrels of oil per day that could be put to us at various terms.
Please see the press release for further details.
For natural gas we’ve 182 000 MMBtu per day hedged at $4.51 per MMBtu for March 1 thru December 31 2015.
We also have a number of contracts on natural gas that could be put to us at various terms.
The counter parties exercised also its options the notion of volume of EOG’s existing natural gas derivative contracts were increased by 175 000 MMBtu per day at an average price of $4.51 per MMBtu for each month during the period March 1 thru December 31 2015.
Now I’ll turn it back over to Bill.
Thanks Tim.
Now I’ll talk about the macro view.
We’re encouraged that Congress is taking a look at lifting a ban on crude oil exports.
Doing so will bring a lot of range of economic geopolitical benefits including strengthening the U.S.
energy sector growing the U.S.
economy creating jobs dramatically improving the U.S.
trade deficit providing our European allies with more secure supplies and lowering gasoline process to U.S.
consumers.
As I mentioned earlier EOG will be very focused this year on preparing for the recovery in oil process.
The current supply demand imbalance is not very large and current process are far short of what is necessary to sustain the supply need to meet world demand growth.
When process recover EOG will be prepared to resume strong double-digit oil growth.
For now EOG is intentionally choosing returns over growth.
In fact that's the way it’s always been here at EOG.
In summary I want to leave you with some important summary points.
Year in year out EOG consistently approaches capital planning by focusing on returns.
2015 is no different.
Second we’ve halted production growth deliberately while EOG is one of the few companies that can earn a healthy return at today's oil prices we are not interested in growing oil into our low price environment.
As we compare today’s oil prices to our expectations for a more balanced market it makes economic sense to slow production until an industry wide supply response is realized and prices respond accordingly.
This strategy maximizes the value of our assets and it’s the right strategy to create long term shareholder value.
Third our balance sheet places EOG in a strong position.
We intend to use our financial flexibility to take advantage of opportunities to grow our inventory by acquiring low cost high quality acreage.
And fourth with the substantial inventory up high volume levels to complete we will be ready to return to double-digit oil growth as oil prices improve.
And finally we fully expect to merge the commodity price down cycle and the stronger position that we entered in.
In 2015 we have more opportunity than ever to lower finding costs and development costs and improve returns in 2016 and beyond.
Thanks for listening and now we will go to Q&amp;A.
Thank you sir.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Sir your line is open please check your mute function.
And we will take our next question from Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Hi good morning everybody.
Can you hear me okay? Yes Paul go ahead.
Good morning.
You have clearly stated guys that you are now targeting flat year-over-year crude production in 2015 and that you also stated clearly that you’re not interested in growing oil production in a low oil price environment.
I wanted to confirm that the overarching decision that you have made here is to get CapEx in line with expected cash flows and secondly by increasing efficiency allowing for lowest service cost that even if oil prices remain low for another year you would be able to deliver growth in 2016 while keeping CapEx within cash flows or if oil prices remain low which you reduce the CapEx and leave volumes flat again next year? Thanks.
Yes Paul that – the first statement is generally correct.
Number one we do not think it’s wise or prudent to accelerate oil when oil prices are low especially if the rebound and price could come certainly in the next – this year the end of this year or maybe even next year.
So there is no use in trying to accelerate.
It makes much more prudent business decision to wait and that will give us a much more capital returns if we do that and we are very committed to maintain the very strong balance sheet so we don't want to out-spend trying to grow oil in a low price environment.
And we want to keep our balance sheet clean and low and we want to keep our patter drop so that we will be able to take some advantage of what could be some unique opportunities in this downturn.
2016 yes if we – if things go as we think they might could and we would have say a $65 oil environment in 2016 and we believe that we could return to our very strong double-digit oil growth that we have been marching towards a last few years and that we will be able to generate very high rates of return on our capital and we would be able to stay free cash flow neutral.
And I guess the specific part of that was that if you – another year $5 billion CapEx next year you would be able to re-accelerate growth because of the increased efficiencies and lower service cost that you will be seeing throughout this year? Certainly we do think costs will come down this year due to services and again efficiency gains we’re making really good progress in that and as we look forward to 2016 we haven't set a capital goal on that yet and we will look at that when we get there.
Okay.
That's great.
Thanks and then can I just confirm you are building effectively an inventory of stuff that you can do if you want to would that mean you are less likely to add into M&amp;A or would you not follow that statement through? Well the kind of opportunities that we are looking for is take advantage of is number one this low cost environment.
It helps us to pick up acreage that we are working on in our certainly our core areas.
We are able to pickup 11 000 acres last year in the Eagle Ford and we are targeting to pick up more there just on leasehold so that goes more easily this year.
The second is we have historically and we do think that we will have opportunities to earn acreage through farmings or drill to earn top things commitments and we will look for partners that we can join in with that will be a win-win situation and earn acreage in our core areas and maybe some emerging areas.
And then we look for topical acquisitions that won’t be the large large acquisitions that they will be certainly bolt on acreage and they will be opportunities that we see primarily in our top tier place.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
And we will take our next question from Phillip Jungwirth with BMO.
Yes good morning.
EOG has been the cutting edge of completion technology and proven to be a premiere operator but is there any way to quantify the operational synergy you think can be achieved during acquisition strategy in terms of MPB or how big you think it’s best to think about it and can this technology advantage be maintained in a way that's accretive through acquisitions? Yes Phillip thank you for the question.
I think certainly when we look at potential acquisitions the thing we let help guide that is our expiration expertise and our understanding of the locks and so we really are only focused on that kind of opportunities where we see very sweet spot top acreage and use existing core areas or in emerging place.
And then we certainly have a lot of expertise and we’ve been in the shale business I think longer than most people and we developed a very strong efficiencies and technology improvements and we think that we would certainly bring that to bear.
And we apply that and the upside that we see on that that we could bring the table on any kind of acquisition that we might pursue.
Also we’ve certainly our built-in cost of reductions mechanisms like our self-sourced sand and other materials that we use in our fracs so that gives an advantage from an economic standpoint to be competitive on acquisitions.
Thank you.
And how much of the 2015 capital being spent isn’t additive to production this year just solely due to the decision to defer completion during the year just so we can get a sense of what a clean number on a capital efficiency basis would be? Okay.
As for as the number of wells that we’re deferring really the number is we had 200 wells at the start of 2015 and we’re going to end the year with about 285 wells waiting on completion.
So they have additional 85 wells and were we complete that that cost would be somewhere $250 million to $500 million.
But as far as the wells that we’re drilling and not to be completed that’s a couple of 100 million additional costs that we’re spending this year 2015.
Great thanks a lot.
And we’ll take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Yes good morning to everyone there.
Bill if I can get you to go back to some of the macro comments that you closed at your prepared comments with.
My recollection is that some of your comments back in December some of your public comments you had the opinion that we were looking at a more of a V shaped recovery in oil prices and maybe activities well but I wanted to can you talk about how your view of the macro landscape has changed over the last couple of months and what you think I know you just referenced $65 oil in a year is that a reasonable point to anchor on as far as your expectations for ’16? Charles I don’t think that I’ve talked about our shape of the recovery.
But our view now is that we really believe with the consensus opinion that as we go forward due to the response of the industry that we could have flat to maybe even negative U.S.
production growth on a month-over-month basis by the end of this year and that certainly going to slowdown U.S.
production growth this year.
So as that slows down there should be a price response and I’m not going to predict whether it’s going to be V or U or W o really what the price is certainly the forward curve is very indicative that prices will increase in the future and we’re just going to wait and see how that goes and we’ll respond accordingly.
Got it.
And that’s actually good segway to the next question I would like to ask it really gets to this inventory and what are the set of what set of conditions would lead you to start really wanting to work that down I mean current forward curve as I said I think January crude read around $60 bucks January ’16 crude would that be would $60 crude would be sufficient for you to start want you to work that down or perhaps that in combination with some other factors on completion costs or sort that of thing.
Can you just elaborate a bit on how you’re thinking about it? Yes certainly we’re deferring these completions because we do believe that prices will be better in the future and even at $10 increase in oil price gives us a significant additional return on our investment and NPV upside.
So really our rate of return focus and our capital return focus is really what’s driving the deferral.
And let me kind of walk you through there is two parts of this deferral one is as Gary said we’re starting out 2015 with about 200 uncompleted wells in our inventory and that uncompleted well inventory will grow throughout 2015.
And if oil prices improve and they look something like the forward curve in the $60 range then we would begin completing many of those wells starting in the third quarter of 2015 and that would reflect additional growth in the fourth quarter heading into 2016.
So we want to head in the 2016 on an uptick in production growth.
So our curve in 2015 would be U-shaped.
It will be the lowest production will be in the second quarter and then in the third quarter and then production will begin to increase in the fourth quarter as we head into 2016.
Then at the end of the year we will have about 285 wells and inventory to start to 2016 process and that will give us a bit of an advantage as we go into 2016 and we will be able to grow oil at very strong double-digit rates and be able to stay free cash flow neutral in our $65 oil price environment.
So hopefully that gives you a bit of more understanding of what we are thinking.
Bill that's great insight into your thinking exactly what I was looking for thank you.
And we will go now to Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
Yes guys.
I was just hoping you can speak a bit into sort of how quickly once the price response is in place where you can start working down the backlog of completions is that just the matter of a month or two and then additionally just following up on what you have just mentioned there in terms of if we have got to $60 oil say by midsummer where you might start completing more wells in 3Q is that contemplated in the production guidance in 2015 for EOG? What we have contemplated is just as Bill was saying is we will ramp-up in the fourth quarter and you are right it would take us about one month since we have wells drilled wait down completion to go ahead and see the impact of that production.
So yes we would start somewhere like September and start the ramp-up if we have been encouraged with oil prices improvement.
And yes that is included in our guidance.
Production guidance for 2015.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess I notice that you guys did have a relatively healthy increase here in the dividend this quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about how you balance kind of returning cash to shareholders through the dividend with drilling wells obviously the returns on the wells are still quite strong here at $55 oil so how do you think about the increase in dividend just given where oil is right now? Yes now we didn't increase the rate of dividend in this quarter.
So we did increase it twice last year but too healthy now so that's just the give back to the shareholders share within the success of the company as we end this lower price environment the opportunity to further increase the rate is a bit more limited.
And so we will really just have to see how oil prices respond in the future and to consider additional increases in the dividend.
The company is very committed to that part of the business and to the shareholders in that way.
So it’s a very top priority for us but we need a bit better business environment to work on that.
Alright thanks.
And we will take our next question from Pearce Hammond from Simmons &amp; Company.
Thank you for taking my questions.
My first question is what percent of total well cost is completion and where do you expect that to go with service cost decreases? Well our drilling cost is roughly 25% to 30% of the cost of the well.
So that gives you the completion of course I guess we could put facilities in there so the facilities would be somewhere around 10%.
So the balance being completion and the other part of the question is what Pearce? How you see those service costs decreasing those completion costs decreasing over the course of this year? Yes.
When we put our budget together we were seeing 5% to 10% cost reduction.
Now we are seeing 10% to 30% cost reduction that of course depends on the sector.
But just to kind of illustrate that not just mentioned in the Eagle Ford you noticed in our exhibit 18 we are showing our well cost to 6.1% we are expecting we are setting our target we hope to see somewhere around 5.5% or about a 10% reduction.
In the Bakken we have got 9.3% our target would be to further lower that growth of 9.3% in ’14 we have got 8.2% is our planned number but we have got a target that’s slightly less than that maybe 19%.
So overall we are expecting our cost to come down somewhere around to 10% to 20% from 2014.
Thank you Billy and then what is the base decline for the company? Yes Pearce we haven't given that number out.
The decline rate in the region we have decline rate is slowing overtime.
So there is three reasons for that.
One is every year that goes by our well by its gets more matured then we have got older wells bigger percentage of older wells all the time.
So that's slowing the process.
Number two our completion technology is really beginning to starting to flatten out our decline rates on a per well basis specifically the high density fracs that we talked about in the last quarter that we are applying the Eagle Ford are not only increasing the initial rates but they are also decreasing the decline rates so we are very encouraged about that.
And then number three as we go forward we are targeting place that have better rocks with better probability and better ability to flow oil and those rocks such as the Sandstone place in the Delaware Basin and in Wyoming have lower decline rates also.
So the mix of our decline rate in the company is slowing overtime due to a number of different reasons.
Thank you very much.
We will now go to Joe Allman from J.P.
Morgan.
Thank you operator.
Hi everybody.
Good morning Joe.
Just first question is on production.
So I heard what you said about the U-shape production for 2015 I just want to get a better understanding so the first part of the question is why is the first quarter 2015 production below fourth quarter especially in the oil side I know you sold Canada and some factor in that end and could you just give us a better understanding of the trajectory so it sounds that you are going to be down in the first quarter down in second  down in third and then up in fourth and like will the fourth quarter oil be flat with fourth quarter 2014 oil especially in the U.S.
and I understand what’s going on in the East – on that field in the third quarter? Yes Joe the reason the first quarter volumes are down is because we began ramping down our completion spread really quickly in the year.
So we wanted to and so oil continued to drop we wanted to drop CapEx quickly and not focus on growing oil when we have the lowest prices in the first part of the year and then again as I described the second and third quarters should be the lowest production and then the fourth quarter we will ramp back up.
We don't have a number to give you on guidance on that number but it will ramp back up significantly heading into 2016.
Okay.
That's helpful Bill.
And then on the cash from operations so to get the cash from operations to cover the CapEx what benchmark prices do you assume and in that are you assuming the midpoint of your production guidance? Yes we go CapEx to discretionary cash flow should be balanced at about $58 average price this year and the second part of your question was? Just are you assuming to generate the cash flow first I would love to get WTI assumption brand assumption and then natural gas assumption too and then are you assuming the midpoint of your guidance when you say you are going to cover the CapEx of cash from operation so for example if you hit the low end of your guidance you maybe sort of you would be spending somewhat? It's an average midpoint of our production for 2015 yes Joe.
And how about natural gas assumptions and brand oil if you get there? Yes on the gas we issue a five year strip and yes we issue the five year strip on that and then on the NGL the NGL is basically a percent of oil price in our assumptions and then gas again it’s a five year strip.
Okay.
Very good thank you.
And we will go now to Bob Brackett from Bernstein Research.
Some clarifications on some of the other questions.
One I am trying to do the math on you start the year with 200 uncompleted you drill about 465 wells and then you end the year with 285 or 350 uncompleted? Yes Bob that's a good question.
That 350 was an incorrect number so correct that back to 285 we end the year with 285.
So here is the number just to be completely clear we start with 200 we drill 550 and we complete 465 during the year and we exit the year at about 285 wells uncompleted.
Great.
That's helpful.
Quick follow-up on acquisitions you – two definitional terms you contrasted bolt on versus large large acquisitions is there a monetary value associated with those two numbers or those two additives? No that is not a monetary number we just want to distinguish that we are open certainly to any kind of acquisitions that would be very highly beneficial to the company.
But most likely the type of acquisitions we do are not in the very large I’m talking multi-billion dollar kind of acquisition.
They are really more directed towards the tactical acquisitions and they are really at very specific acreage pieces that we think are very highly productive according to our geology.
And you said core areas so that's Bakken Eagle Ford and Permian? Well certainly those would be the first choices but obviously those are the most competitive but we do from time to time consider those type of things and so many emerging place.
But again we are very discriminatory there and that we are only looking for acreage that will be additive to our inventory and that means it has to be equal to or better than Eagle Ford Bakken and Permian place.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
And we will go now to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Brian.
You talked the potential for 10% to 30% vendor cost savings and I wondered as a company more vertically integrated than others can you talk more specifically where you see this potential beyond the more normal course efficiency gains you highlighted in your presentation and your comments and whether do you think the 10% to 30% is merely cyclical or secular? Let me let Brian let me let Gary Thomas answer this question.
The good thing is as the vendors are working so well with the EOG and we are seeing that 10% to 30% across drilling completion production all areas.
And I guess the thing that be a little unique for EOG is we believe that we are going to be seeing maybe in the 10% to 15% reduction in some of our self-sourced areas because that EOG has 3 sand plants.
We also have at least a half of dozen other vendors.
So there is combination of cost of sand and distance from oil site.
So we will be able to use some of the lower cost sand with us having half the number of frac fleets running in 2015.
So that will be in the fit as well.
As far as more granular yes in the tubing and casing area it may be lower in 5% to 7% range.
But we are seeing stock tanks those discounts coming down as much as 25%.
And to follow-up do you think that's cyclical or secular it sounds like from your comment on just the cost of split the distance that's more high grading but is there a secular element you see as well? No.
not appreciably.
I think the secular part Brian would be in the efficiency gain particularly in the technology side of it those will stay with us for years and they keep improving.
The service cost comes and goes obviously with activity and so we will be a bit more short term.
But we build in long term I think cost savings in the company that will continue to stay with us.
As an example we gave this earlier we now see better returns in our Eagle Ford with $65 oil than we had with $95 oil two or three years ago.
And that is mainly due to the efficiency gains we have been able to accomplish with our completion technology and the efficiency and the cost reduction on the wells.
That's helpful.
Along those lines you talked about the acquisition strategy but let’s say oil prices do quickly recover the acquisition opportunities are not accretive as you are hoping for.
What potential do you see from your higher rate of return legacy areas to further extend your inventory beyond the 15 plus years you are at now where are we in that ball parking? Brian we see upside in really all of them just to start with the Eagle Ford again we still believe we are in the sixth inning there in the Eagle Ford.
So we are still testing new zones like the upper Eagle Ford and we working on down spacing and again we have added acreage there in the last year about 11 000 acres that is very high quality acreage.
So we think there is additional room there in the Bakken we have not upgraded our Bakken well count our reserve potential after we have started this down spacing process.
So we see upside there and then in the Permian we are diligently working on spacing and targeting and specifically in the second bond spring sand we are working on bringing the spacing patterns closer together and identifying maybe even two targets in that particular zone in the [indiscernible] we working on spacing there and we haven't upgraded that well count in the long time and then in the Wolf Camp we have multiple play zone spacing that we are working on there.
We haven't upgraded that in a while.
So really each one of our core areas we believe we will continue to provide additional high quality inventory as we go forward.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Bill Thomas at this time I would like to turn the conference back over to you for additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
I would just like to leave you with this last one thought EOG is very long term focused.
We could have taken a short term approach this year and just picked up the very best wells in the company to drill and focus on those and cut our capital back to really own a short term focus.
But we do not believe that's the right way to grow the company and to manage the company.
We are focused on long term shareholder value and that's our focus.
So as we said we are going to not grow oil while oil prices are low we are going to wait for the recovery and that will be able to give us much higher returns and it’s the right business decision as we go forward.
So we appreciate everybody.
Great questions and thank everybody for their support.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference and we do thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Good day and welcome to the EOG Resources' First Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Just as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Tim Driggers.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing first quarter 2015 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release and Investor Relations page of our website.
Participating on the call this morning are Bill Thomas Chairman and CEO; Gary Thomas President and Chief Operating Officer; Billy Helms EVP Exploration and Production; David Trice EVP Exploration and Production; Lance Terveen VP in Marketing Operations; and Cedric Burgher Senior VP Investor and Public Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website yesterday evening and we included guidance for the second quarter and full-year 2015 in yesterday's press release.
This morning we will discuss topics in the following order.
Bill Thomas will review our 2015 plan and first quarter highlights; David Trice and Billy Helms will review operational results.
I'll then discuss EOG's financials capital structure and hedge position and Bill will provide concluding remarks.
Here is Bill Thomas.
Thanks Tim and good morning.
Our strategy this year is to remain laser focused on returns and position EOG to resume peer-leading oil growth when oil prices recover.
We laid out a plan two months ago on our year-end call and I am pleased that our first quarter results are right on track.
We are quickly transforming the company to be successful in this low price environment.
There are four basic objectives to our 2015 plan.
Objective number one maximize 2015 return on capital invested and position the company to resume strong growth when oil prices recover.
As we discussed earlier this year our drilling operations are focused on our top three plays: the Eagle Ford Delaware Basin and Bakken where 85% of our 2015 capital is directed.
We generate a direct after-tax rate of return of 35% or greater with a flat $55 WTI oil price in each of these plays and returns improve as we lower cost and improve well productivity.
We have also stated that we have no interest in accelerating oil production at the bottom of the commodity price cycle.
Instead we are drilling but deferring completions on a significant number of wells known as DUCs until oil prices improve.
A $10 increase in the price of oil with a six month deferral adds about $300 000 of net present value to a typical well.
This amounts to a significant value creation from our drilled but uncompleted well inventory.
It is the right business decision to drill the wells and defer completions instead of buying out drilling contracts or growing oil in a low price environment.
By deferring completion and accelerating oil growth in a better price environment we maximize 2015 return on capital invested and build momentum as we head into 2016.
We plan to enter 2016 with approximately 285 DUCs.
If oil prices recover and stabilize around $65 WTI EOG can resume strong double-digit growth for the balance CapEx to discretionary cash flow program.
Objective number two focus on improving well productivity and operational efficiencies to position EOG to exit this downturn stronger than we entered it.
There are two primary drivers that will improve our per well and total asset returns.
The first is well productivity enhancement and the second is well cost reductions.
For well productivity we are expanding our use of high density completions and testing down spacing to maximize to NPV per section.
For the next productivity game changer we are beginning to look at ways to improve horizontal target selection.
It's still early but initial results have been promising.
On the cost side the slowdown in activity is giving us more time to focus on efficiency improvements.
While much has been made of service cost reductions we expect we will gain the most long-term benefits from efficiency gains.
Our efforts of driving down both well cost and operating expenses.
Currently well costs are already running at or below 2015 plan levels across all our major plays.
You will hear more specifics on cost reduction and productivity gains in a few minutes as we discuss individual play highlights.
Objective number three protect our balance sheet by meeting our cash flow and CapEx expectations for the year.
As a result of existing service contract commitments and projects set in motion in 2014 capital spent for this year is front-end loaded.
We outspent discretionary cash flow in the first quarter.
But for the remainder of the year we expect discretionary cash flow and CapEx to be balanced if oil price remains near recent level.
Capital discipline and the strong balance sheet are key to our long-term strategy.
This allows us to manage our company through a low commodity price environment such as today's in addition that strength allows EOG to continue to make smart long-term rate of return driven operational decisions such as infrastructure investments and acreage additions that will pay dividends for years to come.
Objective number four take advantage of opportunities during the down cycle to add acreage.
We are using our exploration skills to define high quality acreage and are having good success capturing leasehold interest in emerging plays.
Competition is down acreage is available and leasing costs are low compared to previous years and we are optimistic more opportunities will materialize as the year progresses.
We are also evaluating tactical acquisition candidates.
Now let's take a moment to discuss our production performance and the outlook for the remainder of the year.
We are not interested in growing oil at the bottom of the commodity price cycle.
While oil production did come down sequentially in the first quarter it was slightly over the high-end of our guidance.
The driver of our outperformance was primarily improved well resorts.
Our integrated completion technology which combines improvements in target selection and geo steering with our latest techniques and high density completion decision is providing the next step change in our well performance.
The best rocks respond best and big fields keep getting bigger.
EOG's combination of sweet spot acreage and industry-leading technology enables us to continue to outperform expectations.
As we described on our February call our production profile will be U-shaped this year.
If the current forward oil curve continues to improve our plan is to increase well completions in the third quarter.
Therefore we expect our oil productions to return to growth in the fourth quarter building momentum as we head into 2016.
We are right on track with this plan.
Now let's turn our attention to a discussion of our three high return oil plays.
I will start by discussing the Eagle Ford; then David Trice will discuss the Delaware Basin; and Billy Helms will follow with a discussion of the Bakken and the Rockies plays.
In the Eagle Ford this year we are reducing drilling rigs from 23 at year-end 2014 to an average of 15.
We plan to complete about 345 net wells which is a 35% reduction in completions compared to 2014.
As we reduce activity we have a full court press to continue to reduce well costs and improve oil productivity.
And I'm happy to report that excellent progress in both areas is underway.
Year-to-date we have reduced total completed well costs by 10% from an industry-leading $6.1 million average well cost in 2014 to a current well cost of $5.5 million.
The reduction is driven by combination of efficiency gains and lower service costs.
For 2015 increased pad drilling and fewer drilling requirements for lease retention have contributed to the efficiency gains.
This year approximately 75% of the wells will be drilled and completed on pads and over 80% of our acreage is currently by production.
At year-end we expect to have more than 90% of our acreage held by production.
We are targeting $5.3 million well cost by the end of this year which if accomplished would be 7% below our 2015 plan for the Eagle Ford.
In addition to cost reductions we continue to make significant improvements in our integrated completion process which combines target selection geo steering and high density completion designs.
Identifying the best lot to drill the lateral keeping the lateral in that lot longer using the latest completion technology is making a significant difference in well productivity and decline curves.
When we compare wells with high density completions versus wells with low density completions we see a 23% increase in cumulative oil production in the first 90 days.
We also see that that production rates are holding up longer.
With this success we plan to complete about 95% of our 2015 Eagle Ford wells with high density completion designs.
With lower declines production growth will be easier to achieve than in previous years and returns on investment will continue to increase as we move forward.
Finally we're still experimenting with various techniques and spacing patterns such as using enhanced target selection methods and experimenting with W patterns within the lower Eagle Ford.
We are optimistic this process will continue to increase our drilling inventory in the future.
This slowdown in activity is allowing us to further evaluate this world-class asset.
With better wells and lower costs EOG's Eagle Ford asset is in great position to deliver strong growth and returns for many years to come.
I will now turn it over to David Trice to cover our Permian basin activity.
Thanks Bill.
If you recall we increased capital spend this year in the Permian but we are still in the early innings of evaluating ultimate potential of our Delaware Basin asset.
As we ramped up activity in Delaware Basin we've made quick progress using our integrated completions process.
We identified the best drilling targets within the best reservoirs while making sure we keep our laterals in these discrete intervals.
This combined with our use of advanced EOG completion techniques has resulted in dramatically improved wells.
During the first quarter we were most active in the Second Bone Spring Sand play where we are testing various targets as well as different well spacing patterns.
Microseismic data we have gathered throughout the play indicates good pressure containment within the individual Second Bone Spring Sand targets.
For example we drilled three wells in Lea County New Mexico on the Jolly Roger 16 State Lease.
The wells tested three different Second Bone Spring Sand targets at 600 foot well spacing.
All three targets are very productive with IP rates ranging from 1 030 to 1 315 barrels of oil per day.
And the technical data we collected does not indicate any production sharing between these wells.
Going forward we will continue to push spacing limits and test new targets.
Another notable Second Bone Spring Sand well we brought on in the first quarter was the Brown Bear 36 State Number 502H which IP'd at a rate of 1 700 barrels of oil per day.
We are very pleased with these results and expect our individual well performance and recoveries to continue to improve as we refine our drilling targets and implement high density conclusions.
In addition to impressive well results we are pushing down cost.
Our current well cost is $6 million which is down 22% from 2014.
We expect this trend to continue and have a target cost of $5.7 million by year-end.
The overpressure oil window and the Wolfcamp continues to deliver excellent results and rate of return.
The Brown Bear 36 State Number 701H was drilled in Lea County New Mexico and came on at 3 165 barrels of oil per day.
We are planning to increase our activity on this play throughout the remainder of the year.
And we are confident we can achieve increased well performance and lower cost as we move toward development mode.
In the Leonard Shale we completed a 300 foot spaced; four well pattern during the first quarter.
The Excelsior-12 number 3H 4H 5H and 6H were brought on line producing from 955 to 1 165 barrels of oil per day.
The Leonard Shale is the most mature of our current plays in the Delaware Basin.
The well economics continue to improve as we tighten spacing and lower cost.
In fact much like the Western Eagle Ford we made better returns at $65 oil now than we could in 2012 at $95 oil.
We are optimistic similar trends will emerge in the Wolfcamp and Second Bone Spring Sand in the coming years.
Even as EOG increases activity in the Delaware Basin overall industry slowdown is helping us lower well cost add additional acreage and optimize long-term infrastructure needs such as water handling and takeaway capacity.
We are very excited about the potential of the Delaware Basin and its key role in EOG's future growth.
Billy Helms will now discuss the Rockies plays.
Thanks David.
As we previously stated most of our 2015 capital in our Rockies plays will be focused in the Bakken with minimal activity in the DJ Basin and Powder River Basin.
Each of these are well established plays with significant remaining potential.
And now all are benefiting greatly from the pull-back in activity.
Plans are in place and steady progress is being made in lowering cost in each phase of our operations.
In the Bakken the slowdown in activity is allowing us to focus on three things.
First we have made tremendous progress on operational efficiencies and lowering well cost.
Our typical 10 000 foot lateral is now drilled in just over 10 days.
And the well cost is currently 14% less than the 2014 well cost.
We anticipate this year's well cost will be as much as 20% below 2014 levels with a target of $7.4 million.
Second we are using new technical data from our integrated completion process to further adjust and tailor our high density completion designs to specific formation properties.
Understanding and using this data gives us insight into to how to adjust the completion along the lateral to effectively optimize each stage.
These modifications are leading to improved results.
And third we're able to maintain a more stable production base with minimal downtime associated with offset competition interference.
This allows us to better evaluate the production from various spacing patterns to determine our ultimate development plan.
In the first quarter we began producing eight wells in two 500 foot space patterns in the partial area.
Initial per well production rates from a five-well pattern averaged 1 235 barrels of oil per day and a three-well pattern averaged 1 345 barrels of oil per day.
We are encouraged by the results from these down spacing patterns and are confident in our ability to maximize the recovery and ultimately net present value of this asset.
In the DJ Basin we continue to refine our targeting in the Codell and experiment with modified completion designs.
Recent examples of improved targeting and completions are two Jubilee Wells that each had initial production rates of over 1 000 barrels of oil per day.
Further 2015 activity in the DJ will be limited to drilling wells nearly to maintain leasehold and finishing completion operations on a few wells.
In the Powder River Basin activity will be focused on delineation and target selection of this profitable stacked resource play.
The Turner formation is one of these stacked pay interval and continues to generate good results as evidenced by the recently completed Flatbow 13-13H with an IP of 860 barrels of oil per day.
Our commitment to the long-term profitability of our Rockies plays is emphasized by additional infrastructure capital being invested that could reduce our future well cost by $300 000 to $500 000 per well.
These investments include building more pipelines to move water to well-sites and adding water handling infrastructure for recycling and disposal.
As a result we will not only reduce upfront capital but also reduce long-term LOE.
These investments will decrease our need for trucking services and also help our communities by reducing truck traffic.
I'll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Billy.
Capitalized interest for the first quarter 2015 was $12 million.
Total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.5 billion excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $117 million.
Drilling activity is expected to decline in the second quarter and flat now.
And we have maintained our full-year capital expenditure guidance of $4.9 billion to $5.1 billion.
At the end of March 2015 total debt outstanding was $6.9 billion and the debt to total cap ratio was 28%.
At March 31 we had $2.1 billion of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $4.8 billion or net debt to total cap ratio of 21%.
In April Moody's confirmed EOG's A3 rating with a stable outlook.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter was 28% and the current tax expense was $31 million.
For the period May 1 through June 30 2015 EOG has crude oil financial price swap contracts in place for 47 000 barrels of oil per day at a weighted average price of $91.22 per barrel.
For the period July 1 through December 31 2015 EOG has crude oil financial price swap contracts in place for 10 000 barrels of oil per day at a weighted average price of $89.98 per barrel.
These numbers exclude options that are exercisable by our counterparties.
For the period June 1 through December 31 2015 EOG has natural gas financial price swap contracts in place for approximately 203 500 MMBtu per day at a weighted average price of $4.31 per MMBtu.
These numbers exclude options that are exercisable by our counterparties.
Now I'll turn it back over to Bill.
Thanks Tim.
We continue to believe that current oil process will discourage oil exploration and development worldwide and will encourage demand growth.
This will correct the current oversupply situation and the market will continue to rebalance.
We believe there is more upside to the forward curve than downside.
In summary here are some important points to take away from this call.
First EOG remains disciplined.
We are committed to maintaining our strong balance sheet.
We do not plan to increase 2015 CapEx.
And at recent oil price our CapEx to discretionary cash flow will be balanced for the remainder of the year.
Second the company's priority remains clearly focused on returns.
We have directed 2015 capital to our highest oil return plays which generate 35% or better after-tax rates of return at $55 WTI price environment.
Returns are improving on each of these assets as we go forward.
Well costs are going down and well productivity is going up.
Even as oil prices have retreated our direct rates of return are improving and EOG will be more than competitive in the world markets as we go forward.
Third we continue to organically grow reserve potential in our existing plays through down spacing and completion enhancements.
We believe that Eagle Ford Delaware Basin and Bakken will continue to grow in drilling potential.
We are also optimistic that we will find new potential through our exploration efforts.
As we test and confirm meaningful results we will update you with new potential reserve estimates in the future.
Fourth we've said all along that we are preparing to return to growth in 2016 when oil prices improve.
If we have $65 WTI price environment in 2016 we can presume our strong double-digit oil growth profile with a balance CapEx to discretionary cash flow program.
And finally EOG is in this business for the long-term.
We've not made short-term decisions this year that would hinder our future growth.
This year we are even more committed to advancements in the technology exploration cost reduction and operational execution.
The company is building on the culture that has set EOG apart and resetting the bar to be successful in a lower commodity price environment.
As we look to the future we fully expect to remain the North America growth leader and the peer leader in returns on capital employed.
Thanks for listening.
Now we'll go to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And we'll take our first question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Bill I wonder if I could touch on your completion strategy.
What would it take -- what would we need to see in order to re-up the -- I guess the pace of completions to match your drilling pace? And I guess and a related question is the backlog that you've talked about coming out of 2015 what kind of pace would you expect to move those towards production? And then I've got a quick follow-up please.
Yes Doug thanks for the question.
Yes the reason we've deferred the completions is to really substantially increase the rate of return.
So as we go forward this year it's really important for us to be patient and allow the prices to continue to firm up.
As I've said every -- the first $10 in oil price increase with a six months deferral is a $300 000 net PV add to typical well.
So we want to make sure that we allow prices to firm up and that the prices will continue to be firm and not short-term.
And then on a -- we are -- as you see we're getting significant cost reduction as we go forward.
We're gaining on that every day.
And we're gaining on well productivity as we go forward.
So we don't want to get in a hurry.
We want to stay disciplined.
We certainly don't want to jump start completions and the price may be fall back.
So if the forward curve continues to stay firm then our plan as we said is to begin completing wells in the third quarter.
And we will really look at what the outlook on 2016 prices are that's what we're targeting and that's what we're really focusing on.
So we'll just continue to watch the fundamentals and certainly we want to be convinced that they're strong going forward.
And we'll really make the call for the third quarter activity probably July or so after we get a little bit more data.
So just to be clear on the pace of -- I mean you could obviously bring those completions back very very quickly and turbo charge to your drill.
So I don't know how easy as to frame the pace but I mean would you plan to have the backlog with just -- I guess a level of this equivalent to your current drilling rate within a period of time can you help kind of walk us through how you may think about that just trying to see what the upside is to the growth side when you come -- when you go back to completing those wells? Yes we're going to -- I guess the answer to that Doug is we're going to be really patient and disciplined about it and kind of gradually increase the activities we go forward making sure that the price is going to hold up.
And we really do as a company EOG we're very very focused on returns.
So every time that price increases a little bit and every time we get the productivity wells up and get the cost down we're making higher returns so there is no use pushing that too quickly.
And so the ramp up will be as we talked about the production shape is going to be U-shaped this year and the second and third quarters will be the low point but the fourth quarter with the current plan is to ramp up production growth and the heading into 2016 on a very strong note.
Appreciate that.
But my very quick follow up hopefully I'm not taking up too much time here but just on the comment on the tactical acquisitions I just wonder if I could indulge me as you can get indulge me to may be elaborate a little bit on whether you're -- you see a pipeline has sufficient closer between the bid and ask if you like.
And there's been some speculation that you folks might have been interested or may be still be interested in looking at some of the resource available in California.
And I just wonder if you could add that in your answer and I'll leave it there? Thank you.
Yes I'm going to ask Billy Helms he is very engaged in that process and so he can bring us up to-date on that.
Yes good morning Doug.
We're -- yes we are looking at a lot of opportunities as you know; there is a lot of opportunities out there.
There's still a pretty good spread between the bid and ask on the acquisition front.
I think we'll be very selective.
We continue to be very selective in our approach and what we're looking for and I think we'll see some opportunities as we go forward but there will be smaller more tactical acquisitions as well as just continuing to be able to accrete leasehold in some of our key plays and emerging place.
And so I think that's going to be our approach.
I don't think you'll see us doing any large M&amp;A kind of things in the future.
They'll be more targeted to the smaller things that we've traditionally done as a company.
And so continue to be very selective and review those on a one case or case-by-case basis.
And we'll move to our next question that will come from Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
Sorry to press on the drilled uncompleted but I guess a follow-up is trying to get a sense of the pace at which the 285 would come back relative to how much drilling you would do simultaneously.
I think what you're saying is that a $65 plus price you would be ramping up I guess the DUCs or the drilling both simultaneously? Could you just go into that again? Thanks.
Yes Paul that's a good question.
And as we head into the last half of this year and think about 2016 we'll be on a pretty good uptick.
So what we want to do is get the equipment and the people and place and get the process started certainly very strongly in the second half of the year.
And then when we hit 2016 if oil prices continue to hold up we will continue to increase our activity accordingly.
Of course the goal is and the plan is to continue to remain CapEx to discretionary cash flow balance.
And so that will really govern our activity.
The stronger the price of oil is they're more obviously capital we'll have to work with and the more we'll continue to increase our activity.
As we look at the second part of this year part of the process will be evaluating is how many drilling rigs to continue to have joint wells versus releasing rigs.
And that certainly will be a function of what the oil price is.
And so we won't get too far out in front on the drilling side.
The 285 DUC that we start the year with most likely over the first half of the year will reduce significantly as we go forward and we'll exit the year next year with considerably less DUCs than we’re exiting this year with.
Yes I think I understand.
So I think -- to reinterpret the close that you're to 65 the more DUCs will be used to generate the double-digit return but excuse me seasonally double-digit growth.
But what you're essentially saying if we're 65 or above you will be delivering double-digit growth next year? Yes I think that's correct yes good.
Thank you.
And then the follow-up is there is some criticism always about the relationship between the IRRs of individual wells and how they flow through to corporate returns.
Could you just add anything that you have to add on how the current environment and the outlook will flow through if you like to your overall corporate return on capital employed? Thank you.
Yes the rates of return that we talk about -- the direct rates of return and we used direct after-tax numbers when we quote our plays those are on capital for the well cost and the production facilities of that well and that's the only cost in there.
Of course the full corporate returns on ROCE are all capital and all capital spent from the history of the company.
And so you’ve got legacy gas properties in there and lots of other things in there over time and that's the real difference in the thing.
As you -- everybody has noted over the last several years EOG's ROCE numbers have continued to improve rather strongly and over the last year our ROCE numbers were higher certainly than the E&amp;P peer group and they were even higher than the average of the integrators and the majors.
So we have one of the strongest track records and one of the strongest ROCEs in the business and that just reflects EOG's continued focus on returns.
Rates of return on our capital drives every decision in EOG and it is the fundamental metric that we use to manage the company.
So as we talk about this year we're deferring wells that's really just to drive up the returns on our capital and all these things we're doing to decrease well cost and increase productivity are very very focused on driving up the returns to the company as we go forward.
So really that's the main difference.
Appreciate that.
Thank you.
And next we'll go to Leo Mariani with RBC.
Hey guys I was hoping you could give us a little bit more color around your second quarter U.S.
oil production guidance.
I look at the -- I guess the midpoint in the second quarter is down roughly 10% sequentially versus the first quarter.
Could you guys kind of provide some color around that whether or not number of completions is extremely limited here in the second quarter? When you guys talked about deferring and is that deferring almost all of them or just majority could you just kind of give us some color around that? Yes the reason that we're -- our guidance from the second quarter is down is because we've had a significant reduction in the amount of wells we complete that's really the driver.
We were down 39% in completions in the first quarter.
And then in the second quarter we were down additional 36%.
And that is really just a process of deferring the wells and not completing the wells and just really taking off the spin right as we move into the second quarter.
So that's really just driving it.
And of course those will we still have maintained our full-year guidance and we'll be making that backup that production backup in the second half of the year and it will be at much higher returns because we are waiting.
All right.
I guess obviously you guys talked about sticking to your capital budget here in all costs.
But at the same time you’re also talking about starting to accelerate some completions at $65 oil which could happen as soon as this 3Q.
Just to clarify is that accelerated activity in 3Q and 4Q if we get to the right oil price is that actually in the CapEx budget for 2015 already? Yes Leo let me let Gary Thomas address that.
Yes Leo.
We do have those incorporated in our capital with our ramp up there as Bill said may be starting in July just watching oil prices but then will ramp up through the year.
As a matter of fact yes we're doing less completions we're kind of keep our frac rates in place we've dropped them down from 7 days to 5 days just everything to conserve capital here in the first half.
All right.
That's helpful.
And I guess just talking about some down spacing result that you all had.
I guess in particular looks like in the Bakken and the Leonard; it looks like some of the IP rates you reported in some of those areas a little bit lower than some of the previous wells.
Am I interpreting that you may be seeing some initial interference on those or is that incorrect? Yes Leo this is Billy Helms.
For the Bakken as we continue to experiment with our completion designs we're seeing different areas of the field have different rock properties and we're tailoring those completion designs to match those rock properties.
So we have as you can imagine the quality of the rock varies across the field so you got some areas that generate a little bit higher production rates than other areas.
So it's just a function of the properties of that particular area other reservoir and we're very confident that our down spacing patterns and our approaches that we're testing are going to lead to our best recovery in net present value for those assets.
And next we'll go to Subash Chandra with Guggenheim.
So a question on the Eagle Ford.
I guess the W pattern staggered pattern I guess being described there in some of the other things you're trying.
Is it too early to hazard a guess as to the inventory gains you might have come out of this process and similarly and say the Bakken where you're doing similar work? Yes it's too early on that to give some guidance on the inventory possibilities but certainly we’re optimistic.
There is going to be upside but a little of what we're doing there is we’re using some enhanced identification tools to really identify the very very best targets in the lower Eagle Ford.
The rock quality varies as you go vertically up and down the section and we believe we have the ability to identify better rock in certain parts of the Eagle Ford and then make target selections based on that.
So it's not just a geo metric pattern it really is got a lot of technical work behind it and a lot of high grading as we pick each one of those targets.
And so we're really just starting that process and we're optimistic about it but it's really too early to give guidance on the amount of upside it might be.
It is fair to say though I think in your commentary you said that because my initial impression was that individual wells will be better but I think you talked about increasing inventory there.
So is it fair to say that as you target these laterals you might actually be accessing or getting a lot more locations out of more of the rock within say a section? Yes that's definitely true.
We're hopeful that it will continue to build our inventory up.
We have to prove that but certainly that is strong possibility.
And next we'll go to Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Bill if I could ask a question again on your 2015 plans may be from a little different angle.
The way it seems to me what you've articulated this morning it’s pretty much the same as what you talked about two months ago with ramping activity towards the end of the year into 2016.
But I'm curious can you may be speak about at the margin has there been a shift in your thinking especially we're looking at crude over $60 close to $61 here today.
And is there may be some subtlety in a shift from which we're thinking a couple of months ago when you talked about Q4 results that you want to direct us to? No Charles.
That’s a good question.
We really don’t have a lot of different outlook on the macro or our 2015 plan than we had back in our February call.
We made the call to defer drilling because we thought this would be or could be a short-term cycle and we're hopeful and certainly we're encouraged by the current firming of the products.
So we’re hopeful that’s what will turn out.
But we still as I said earlier we're more optimistic in the forward curve than what it is right now.
So we believe being patient and waiting on that products to continue to come up while also continuing to take advantages of the cost reductions in the wells and the well productivity improvement.
Those will all make a very significant difference in the returns we get on the wells when we begin to complete them.
So you're correct.
The plan is in the process of thinking is really basically the same as it was in February? Right.
Thank you for that clarification.
Then if I could ask about the -- you guys talked a few times in your press release about these integrated completion designs and tailoring the completion to the individual wellbore.
Can you talk a bit about what that means? Whether it means varying the stage spacing along the wellbore whether it's -- you’re choosing your different pump rates or sand loadings for one stage versus the next and perhaps also offer an idea of how big an opportunity is this? Yes Charles this is David.
On these integrated completion it's not a whole lot of different than what we've always been.
We've always really focused on the very best rock and the very best interval within the overall section.
And we try to keep our lateral in that and then when it comes with completions we integrate that in as well.
And we do very; we basically design each stage for the well and for that specific portion of the lateral.
So it’s really an overall process and we've seen dramatic results over the years and even over the last several quarters in the well results.
We really think of the -- it’s really kind of part of the EOG culture and gives us a big competitive advantage going forward.
And next we'll go to Irene Haas with Wunderlich Securities.
Hello my question has to do with Delaware Basin.
You are in full development mode in the Second Bone Spring just may be a little bit more color on the Wolfcamp.
Your successful wells are they coming from the upper or middle interval; and ultimately how many benches within the Wolfcamp could be productive in this part of Delaware Basin so in the central North? Yes Irene this is David.
As far as the Wolfcamp goes we mainly have been targeting the upper Wolfcamp.
We think that there is a very large potential throughout the Wolfcamp.
But our very focus has mainly been on the upper.
And with regard to the Second Bone Spring Sand we're moving towards development mode there.
We obviously have a lot of work to do.
We're testing a lot of targets.
We're testing spacing there and we're continuing to refine our completions but we see quite a bit upside left really in all those plays.
And moving on we’ll go to David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
I'll leave the acceleration question alone.
I don't want to hit on that anymore.
But just to clarify you guys in the presentation you put in well cost which are running ahead of plan and then you put some target well cost are those achievable are those targets achievable? Is that a 2015 goal or is that a 2016 kind of outlook or how should we think about those target well cost? This is Gary Thomas.
On last February we just mentioned that we were expecting to see our well cost down in the 10% to 20% range.
And we're really pleased with the progress that we've made there and various things but looks to me that our cost is going to be in the 20% to 20% plus.
And most all these areas we’ve got target wells our record wells that have exceeded our targets.
So yes we're making good strides there.
And we're also pleased that about half of that gain has been in vendor-cost reduction but the other half has been in our efficiency gains.
I'm really pleased with the efficiency gains because you can see that on the number of days per well.
And that’s why we had the one Exhibit comparing yes the Barnett that we had worked in for several years versus the Eagle Ford.
And there is still quite a lot of room which is the EOG myntra; pleased not satisfied.
We're going to continue to make gains there.
Moving on we’ll go to Pearce Hammond with Simmons and Company.
Bill service providers have highlighted refracts as a significant opportunity.
Do you see such an opportunity for EOG with refracts? Pearce we get that question quite a bit and we've looked at it and talked about it internally and we've not tried any refracts.
Our outlook on that is that it really -- technically we believe that just drilling a new well and kind of starting fresh and making sure your lateral is in the very best target and making sure that you can redistribute the frac very evenly along the wellbore with the new well is probably the preferred way to go.
We just think that the upside on the completion will be much greater than if you try to refract the well.
Then the other thing obviously that contributes to that is the well cost on the drilling side is we can see are just getting lower and lower and becoming a smaller percentage of the total well cost.
So drilling a new well from the drilling side standpoint is just a pretty low-cost item today.
And there is a lot more upside in just drilling the well -- redrilling the well and doing it right.
Great.
Thanks for that color.
And then my follow-up is how quickly do you think the industry and this includes obviously the service companies have to lay off a lot of people.
How quickly do you think the industry can respond to higher prices? Is there going to be a substantial lag to adding activity or do you think there is enough capacity out there service capacity that it can come back and fairly rapid order? No it Pearce it depends on how much longer this goes.
If we were ramping up here in the next month or two I think you can ramp up pretty rapidly.
And that's why many of those operators are trying to keep as many services in place even if reduced work levels just to maintain that support that service companies.
So as we've said before yes we’ll be able to ramp there pretty rapidly on our production with just our DUCs that we have in inventory.
But then it will take possibly a little longer just from the drilling site.
And next we'll go to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to just see if you could provide some clarity on how your decline rates are trending versus your expectations on fee front? It seems you’re naturally seeing sharper first year decline rates that complement your higher initial production rates from enhanced completion.
What trends are you seeing overall versus your type curves in the Eagle Ford Bakken and Permian when it comes to declines and the many efforts you’re making on longer-term decline rate mitigation in this environment? Yes Brian this is Billy Helms.
What we're actually seeing on our new completion approach is by targeting the wells in the better pay zones and then doing a better job of placing the completions along the lateral is we're seeing actually that declines are flattening over time.
So little bit less decline over time and I think that's transferring yourself all through the company level I think as the base of production gets more material and larger and relative to the new wells we're bringing on that our -- our production decline is flattening over time as well.
So I think we're seeing a lot of advantages to this new completion technique that we're still yet to fully realize and will material with time.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then shifting back to the Delaware Basin and the Wolfcamp area you highlighted the Brown Bear Wolfcamp Well.
Can you put into context what a 24 hour rate of 2 165 barrels a day means relative to your 900 MBOE typical Wolfcamp EUR it seems like the oil mix there was much higher versus your typical well.
And whether this is an area that you already assumed was commercial or whether it represents a step out in Lea County just kind of want to see whether this is a normal well an above average well or something that’s more substantive from a resource and productivity perspective? Yes Brian this is David.
I would say certainly this is a very good well and we’re not necessarily surprised by the Lea County is a good area.
We’ve drilled some good Wolfcamp wells there in the past.
I think as far as how it compares with the model I think it would be fairly close to the model and we continue to see progress on these wells and I think over time we're hopeful that we'll even see better wells.
And our final question will come from Marshall Carver with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Yes regarding the W shape patterns in the Eagle Ford are you testing that in several areas then how much of your acreage do you think might work for that.
And how far are part of the wellbores in those patterns? How much tighter is it than what you were doing before? Marshall the W pattern we will do multiple pilots patterns on that and it really will apply to I think the bulk of our Eagle Ford acreage.
And what we're doing is we’re bringing the wells in.
We've been drilling wells anywhere from 3 to 500 feet apart in our typical patterns but we're bringing those closer.
And we'll be doing that at various spacing closer than 3 to 500 feet and it really will vary a bit on the spacing depending on the area.
But the general concept of taking out multiple targets within the lower Eagle Ford using these advanced techniques to identify the best rock will be apical across the bulk of our acreage.
Okay thank you.
And one follow-up if I could the current 2016 strip is at $65 but you mentioned seeing more upside than downside on the strip.
How would hedges potentially factor into your plans to accelerate if the strip moves up could we see a flat -- how are you thinking about that hedges and how you could be your plans for acceleration? Yes Marshall we're certainly evaluating that all along and we're really again a bit more optimistic about forward curves even then it is today.
But we want to put some hedges in going into next year.
And we'll just be looking at that and trying to find the opportunistic entry point as we kind of go forward.
So really kind of watch the fundamentals of supply and demand and really pick the point that we think is the right point to make an entry there.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I’ll turn it back to Mr.
Bill Thomas for any additional or closing comments.
We’re very excited about what’s happening in EOG this year.
We said at the beginning of the year that when this downturn started that we wanted to emerge in better shape than we entered it.
And what you’re seeing today and what we're reporting today is exactly that happening.
And in my 36 years with the company I’ve never seen a company respond better.
The company is driving down the cost and improving the productivity of the wells rapidly and whether oil prices remain where they are today or continue to improve EOG is resetting the bar to be successful for many years to come and we thank -- so thank you for listening today and thank you for all your support.
Thank you.
And once again that will conclude today's conference.
We'd like to thank everyone for their participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Chief Financial Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Tim Driggers.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing second quarter 2015 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release in EOGs SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our Web site www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release.
Participating on the call this morning are all Bill Thomas Chairman and CEO; Gary Thomas President and Chief Operating Officer; Billy Helms EVP Exploration &amp; Production: David Trice EVP Exploration &amp; Production; Lance Terveen VP Marketing &amp; Operations; and Cedric Burgher Senior VP Investor and Public Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our Web site yesterday evening and we included guidance for the third quarter and full year 2015 in yesterday's press release.
This morning we will discuss topics in the following order.
Bill Thomas will update our 2015 plan.
David Trice and Billy Helms will review operational results.
I will then discuss EOGs financials capital structure and hedge position and Bill will provide concluding remarks.
Here is Bill Thomas.
Thanks Tim.
Good morning everyone.
There are couple of items; I will cover with you on the call today.
First I will discuss the outstanding progress we have made transitioning the company to be successful in a lower oil price environment.
And I will explain why EOG is uniquely positioned to accomplish this.
Second I will describe the framework we are using to determine our activity level for the remainder of the year.
Our goal this year is to remain laser focused on improving returns.
At the beginning of the year we noted that our after-tax rate of return at $65 oil were better than at $95 oil three years ago.
We are pleased to report that we have further improved these well economics even as oil prices have declined.
Through improved well productivity and lower cost our key oil plays now are in a 30% after-tax rate of return with a flat $50 oil price.
We have multiple decades of drilling inventory in these high returns world-class assets.
EOG is rapidly adjusting to lower oil prices.
We believe that our ability to quickly adapt to this new environment illustrates our competitive advantages.
There are five drivers which make EOG uniquely positioned to improve returns year-after-year.
The first is large high-quality assets we have captured the sweet spot in the best horizontal crude oil assets in the U.S.
The Eagle Ford Bakken and Delaware Basin.
The quality of our assets is why EOG drills the most productive oil wells in the U.S.
The scale of our positions drives tremendous efficiencies and the diversity of our assets allows us to transfer technology gains and cost savings from basin to basin.
The second driver is innovations and technology.
New ideas and technically drive continuous productivity improvements.
For example we developed in-house integrated completion technology that consistently drives field recoveries higher and maximizes NPV.
During the first five years of drilling the Eagle Ford we increased its reserve potential 250%.
This quarter we increased our Bakken net potential reserves to 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent a 150% increase.
EOG has over 10 years of horizontal shale experience to build on and we expect to continue advancing our knowledge through innovation and technology.
The third is low cost.
We believe EOGs well and operating costs were are already the lowest in the industry and 2015 is proving to be our best year ever for realizing additional cost reductions.
EOG scale and high-quality assets and proprietary technology will continue to drive future efficiency gains and cost reductions.
The fourth driver is organic growth.
This is the lowest cost highest return approach to adding drilling potential.
Being first movers in exploration allows us to capture large amounts of high-quality rock at much lower cost than through acquisition and exploit strategy.
Organic exploration is an important competitive advantage for EOG and we see significant opportunities ahead of us.
Last but not least is EOGs organization and culture.
This is the catalyst for the first four drivers and underpins our competitive advantage.
A decentralized structure encourages asset level bottom-up decision-making which leads to better execution our core culture is return driven.
Employee performance is incentivized by greater return which is a key driver to our peer leading return on capital employed.
Return-based decision-making and incentives drive EOGs success.
The second item I will cover today is our plan for the remainder of 2015.
We are maintaining total company oil production guidance while reducing 2015 CapEx guidance by approximately $200 million.
In addition our projected year-end uncompleted well inventory has increased from 285 to 320.
The bottom line is productivity improvements and reduced costs are allowing us to produce more oil with less capital.
Many of you are asking when will EOG grow oil again? We have said all along that we do not want to grow production until we see the oil market is firmly rebalancing.
We will be watching the supply/demand fundamentals in the second half of this year closely as we determine our plan for 2016.
Currently we intend to spend within cash flow.
The capital efficiency gains we have made this year along with our large high-quality inventory of uncompleted wells positions us for an excellent 2016.
My number one message is this we are resetting the economics of our business EOG is quickly adapting to be successful in a low oil price environment.
We expect EOG to remain the lowest cost U.S.
shale producer and competitive in the world oil market.
I will now turn it over to David Trice to discuss the update on our Bakken resource estimates as well as other activities in the Rocky.
Thanks Bill.
We're pleased with the performance from our spacing tests using our integrated the completion process in the Bakken.
We now estimate that our Bakken and Three Forks total net resource potential is just over 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
That's almost 2.5x our original estimate of 420 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Remaining drilling inventory increased from 580 to over 1500 net drilling locations.
This represents 760 million barrels of oil equivalent of remaining net potential reserves and decades of drilling in this premier North Dakota asset.
In addition to the updated resource estimate we split the Bakken into two categories that we have tiled core acreage and non-core acreage.
The core producers return that are competitive with both the Eagle Ford and the Delaware Basin and includes our acreage in the Bakken core and Antelope extension.
Non-core represents acreage in the Bakken Lite State Line and Elm Coulee areas.
Although our main focus will be in the core area we believe that with modern high density completions and current well cost the non-core acreage will be very economic even with low oil prices.
We defined 120 000 net acres and 590 net drilling locations in the core which represents remaining net resource potential of 360 million barrels of oil equivalent.
This inventory alone offers over 10 years of drilling.
Non-core acreage represents remaining net resource potential of 400 million barrels equivalent.
In this acreage we defined 110 000 net acres and 950 net drilling locations which provide decades of inventory.
Our wells in the Bakken continue to exceed expectations.
A great example of the progress we're making is the Riverview 102-32H well.
This is the first Bakken well in the Antelope extension we have drilled using a high density completion.
The well came online with a maximum rate of 3395 barrels of oil per day and 6 million feet of rich natural gas.
With an average rate of 2760 barrels of oil per day for July this short 4300 foot lateral will be the highest rate oil well ever recorded for the Bakken or Three Forks.
We are excited to continue applying high density completions throughout the entire play as we move forward.
In addition to improved returns to advance completions we have made tremendous progress on Bakken completed well cost which are now $7.1 million for an 8400 foot treated lateral this is almost 20% decrease in well costs from 2014.
Most of the well cost savings are due to efficiency gains rather than vendor cost reductions.
Therefore should be sustainable over time.
Drilling times are now averaging 8.2 days Spud-to-TD for an 8400 foot lateral with our best being a record 5.6 days.
We are also realizing significant completion efficiencies.
Currently we are averaging more than 10 completion stages per day up from 4 to 5 stages per day in 2014.
In addition plug drill out times have been cut in half since 2014.
Finally cost savings are not just limited to CapEx.
We added infrastructure this year in the Bakken core and as a result we have seen dramatic LOE reductions.
Second quarter LOE is down more than 25% from the first quarter.
The increase to our Bakken reserve potential in drilling inventory illustrates the value of the EOGs exploration and technology leadership.
We enter play as a first mover and capture the best assets.
Then we drill them through the drill bit and improve recoveries over time with drilling and completion technology developed in-house.
This is how EOG continues to grow organically.
Here is Billy Helms to update you on the Delaware Basin and Eagle Ford.
Thanks David.
The plays in the Delaware Basin are also proving to be very good examples of how EOG is repositioning itself to generate strong returns in this period of low commodity prices.
We have made improvements to productivity while significantly lowering completed well costs.
In the case of improved productivity we're finding that wellbore targeting along with our integrated completion approach continues to provide upside on well performance.
In the second quarter we maintained our activity in the 2nd Bone Spring sand testing various spacing patterns and targets.
Two recent wells the Dragon 36 State Number 501H and 502H were completed in a 1000 foot space pattern with initial production rates of 1075 and 1755 barrels of oil per day.
Another recent completion in Lea County New Mexico the Frazier 34 State Com Number 501H tested 1705 barrels of oil per day with 145 barrels per day of NGL and 1.1 million cubic feet per day of natural gas.
The completed well cost for the 2nd Bone Spring sand are currently averaging $6 million per well representing a 22% reduction from last year's average.
A major portion of the cost savings can be attributed to sustainable efficiency improvements in both drilling and completion operations rather than solely vendor cost reductions.
Improved well performance coupled with lower well cost make this play very attractive in this low commodity price environment.
We will continue evaluating well performance to determine the proper spacing and ultimate recovery.
During the last quarter we also completed several strong Wolfcamp wells in the overpressured oil window of the play.
Two recent completions in Lea County New Mexico the Dragon 36 State Number 701H and the Hearns 27 State Com Number 703H had initial production rates per well of 2650 barrels of oil per day along with 285 barrels per day of NGLs and 1.9 million cubic feet per day of natural gas.
As we evaluate various targets and spacing patterns this play promises to be a high return growth asset for EOG.
Similar advancements have been achieved in the Leonard play.
A typical well now cost $5.5 million and we're testing spacing patterns of 300 feet and 500 feet between wells.
One recent completion in Lea County New Mexico the Gem 36 State Com 1H had an initial production rate of 2200 barrels of oil per day 460 barrels per day of NGLs and 2.6 million cubic feet per day of natural gas.
Our downspacing efforts demonstrate that we can drill wells closer together without sacrificing production.
These new completion designs are allowing us to improve the overall economics and ultimate recovery.
Due to these strong results we anticipate the Delaware Basin will play a significant role in EOGs long-term growth.
As typical with our other plays EOG will evaluate options and invest in the infrastructure needed to serve future production growth while keeping our long-term operating cost to a minimum.
We are very excited about the opportunities and growth potential for EOGs Delaware Basin properties.
Now moving to the Eagle Ford which continues to be our work horse asset due to the sheer scale of our operations there it functions as a laboratory for technical progress on target selection geosteering and high density completion designs.
To support our wellbore targeting efforts this year we drilled four pilot wells together additional log data and provide a more complete picture of our acreage.
This information greatly enhances our understanding of any specific targets variability across the play.
We are currently conducting tests using a staggered W pattern in the lower Eagle Ford.
And the new data we have gathered on the targets is encouraging as it supports our expectations for success.
While it is too early to share results we are excited about the benefits our targeting efforts can have on our Eagle Ford drilling program and ultimate field recovery.
We are also pleased with the progress of cost reduction efforts in the Eagle Ford.
Our average completed well cost is currently $5.5 million and headed toward our 2015 goal of $5.3 million.
Similar to our other plays most of these cost reductions are being achieved through efficiency gains and should be sustainable.
Also the productivity of the wells continues to show steady improvement through our emphasis on targeting and high density completions.
Some of the recent wells are highlighted in our press release.
The combination of cost reductions and better well performance through the application of technology is ensuring that this world-class asset will continue to deliver stronger growth for years to come.
I will now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Billy.
Capitalized interest for the second quarter 2015 was $11 million.
Total cash exploration and development expenditures were $1.2 billion excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $85 million.
At the end of June 2015 total debt outstanding was $6.4 billion in the debt to total capitalization ratio was 27%.
At June 30 we have $1.4 billion of cash on hand giving us non-GAAP net debt of $5 billion for net debt to total cap ratio of 22%.
In April Moody's confirmed EOGs A3 rating with a stable outlook.
In July we successfully entered into a new $2 billion credit agreement to replace the existing one which would have matured in October 2016.
Terms of the new agreement are similar to the prior credit agreement.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter was 146% and current tax expense was $41 million.
For the period August 1 through December 31 2015 EOG has crude oil financial price swap's contracts in place for 10 000 barrels of oil per day at a weighted average price of $89.98 per barrel.
For the second -- I'm sorry for the period September 1 through December 31 2015 EOG has natural gas financial price swap contracts in place for 175 000 MMBtu per day at a weighted average price of $4.51 per MMBtu.
These numbers exclude options that are exercisable by our counterparties.
Now I will turn it back over to Bill.
Thanks Tim.
Concerning our macro view we believe current oil prices are not sustainable and the market will rebalance.
Low oil prices are slowing supply growth and encouraging demand worldwide.
We believe that U.S.
oil production will have significant month-over-month declines in the second half of this year.
So our assessment is there is more upside to the forward curve than downside.
In summary before we open up the call for Q&amp;A I want to talk about the core fundamentals that defined EOGs strategy for creating long-term shareholder value.
The first core fundamental is that EOG is return driven.
We allocate capital in order to earn the highest returns.
As we have done for many years our goal is to be the peer leader in capital returns.
Our second core fundamental is organic growth.
Growing through the drill bit is the most return friendly and therefore shareholder friendly means of growth.
Our goal is to be the leader in organic U.S.
oil growth.
The third core fundamental is a strong balance sheet.
Our goal is to maintain a disciplined spending program that keeps our net debt low and liquidity strong.
Finally the fourth core fundamental is commitment to the dividend.
Our track record indicates our continued commitment to the dividend.
Staying focused on these four core fundamentals return driven organic growth strong balance sheet and commitment to the dividend is how EOG consistently delivers long-term shareholder value.
Thanks for listening.
Now we will go to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
And thanks for all the detail on the slide deck.
Bill I wanted to start with a micro question if I may because you guys have obviously done a phenomenal job of getting your costs down your efficiency improvements and I think a couple of slides really speak to the depth of the portfolio.
But it seems that you are making a micro decision based on oil price and no one else seems to be taken the same view.
In other words you're forgoing production growth and a lot of your peers with lesser economics are continuing to pursue goals.
I'm just kind of wondering if you can help us reconcile your micro thoughts with the stock specific opportunities you have in the portfolio.
And I guess with a view to 2016.
I have got a follow-up.
Yes.
Doug our macro view is – we think a very solid view.
We do a lot of work and a lot of study on the process and we particularly model what everybody is saying in the U.S.
and what they're going to be doing in the second half of this year through their guidance.
And we really believe that in the second part of this year we are going to see some strong month-over-month decline rates.
And it may take – it will take probably at least two or three more months for the monthly numbers to confirm this.
There is a two-month lag in the data and the data is not as we know not precise and it gets updated over time.
So what we really need to see to confirm this is the July and August monthly data and that will come in in September and October.
So hopefully by that time the declines will be a bit more evident to everybody and if that happens we could see a bit more from this in the price.
So our model shows what everybody is guiding that the U.S.
will grow about 500 000 to 600 000 barrels a day this year versus the $1.2 million barrel a day last year.
So there's a significant drop-off in the year-over-year growth rate.
And then if the prices continue to stay low through the end of the year we expect 2016 to have continued month-over-month decline rates in the U.S.
And that will be joined by decline rates in other non-OPEC supply in 2016.
And the combination of those things with the continued reasonable demand growth gives a decent opportunity for prices to be a bit better than they are right now in 2016.
So certainly that was a factor in our decision to defer spending capital trying to accelerate oil in the current market.
The other thing is certainly is that we just can't see a good business reason to outspend growing oil in an oversupplied oil market.
This does not make sense to us.
So we believe we made the right decision.
Bill I admire the discipline.
I don't want to belabor this point but I guess what I'm thinking is if I look at Slide 5 you clearly have better returns today.
For example in the Leonard than you did when oil was substantially higher which obviously fits your incentives structure to attract returns.
I guess what I'm really kind of thinking is that let's assuming that you are wrong in oil prices don't recovery and consensus seems to be lower for longer.
Would you go back to growth in 2016? Let me give you a good overview.
That's a good question.
The company is set up for exceptionally strong performance in 2016.
The capital required from growth in 2016 is considerably lower then we have had in the previous years.
Number one as you noted we have achieved very strong efficiency gains on the capital by lowering the cost banking better wells to technology.
And we're going to be able to continue that process in the second half of the year and really reap the benefits of that in 2016.
And the second thing is that as we talked about we have a very large now 320 -- estimate 320 uncompleted well inventory that will be very high quality.
I think it will be the highest quality inventory of any operator in the U.S.
and that inventory is ready to complete to begin completion early in the year next year.
We have infrastructure in place for all of that uncompleted inventory.
So that won't slow us down.
And then we're making significant improvements in lowering decline rates in a number of different ways.
The first one is we continue to drill our laterals in better rock.
We're drilling -- we are taking a lot of time and effort picking out the best quality rock in each one of these plays and keeping the lateral in that longer.
And then and to execute that well is very important.
And when we do that we now are doing a much better job with these high density fracs and better distributing the frac along the lateral connecting up more of that good rock.
And it certainly lowering our decline rates over time and that makes it easier to grow production.
And the last thing which is very important we have tremendous capital flexibility in 2016.
We don't have many service or rig contracts that will be in place as we begin 2016.
We have very few lease retention requirements and we have very few international commitments.
So we are fully flexible to concentrate our capital particularly in the first half of the year on this very high-quality uncompleted well inventory.
We are not going to give any specific guidance on our CapEx until February of next year.
We want to work the details and so we're just going to -- we will make our CapEx plans based on what the 2016 forward curve looks like in February.
And we are going to remain patient and really run our business right and continue the focus on improving the returns as we go forward.
I appreciate it.
That's a lengthy answer.
I will get back in queue for my follow-up.
[indiscernible] time.
Thanks again.
We will next go to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Let me follow up on your 2016 comments and I appreciate your asset position and you're not in the budget mode today.
You are philosophically I mean if necessary to stay within cash flow into 2016 are you willing to go into annual production declines or is that where you would consider drawing ducts or moving into an outspend? Evan we definitely want – that's a primary goal is to just have a balanced spending program or CapEx is balanced with our discretionary cash flow.
Next year our capital required just to maintain the flat production is very low.
So we don't see a scenario that we can't keep production flat.
So I'm going to ask Gary Thomas to kind of walk through how 2016 might unfold.
The question there Evan as far as yes would we just grow production? We're not inclined to grow production just in a continued low-price environment.
But like Bill saying we are well well-positioned with all of our high-quality ducts wells not completed.
And we are going to end the year with 15 to 18 drilling rigs and we will only have 13 under loan contract next year.
So in order to go ahead and just lease maintain possibly grow production depending on what the prices are we will start with quite a number of completion units.
And that allows us to bring production on rapidly and also we will be able to do it at low cost with all of the reduced costs we have had from increased efficiencies here through 2015.
Okay.
I was just curious if you would let it go to decline.
It sounded more of a no than a yes.
But let me – We have maintained our productions for domestic just flat here.
And that's kind of what we got here through 2015.
So that's probably likely for 2016.
Great.
My second one if I could on a high density completions.
You guys are clearly the leader here.
It's 95% of Eagle Ford wells this year.
You began the Bakken with a very strong Antelope extension well implemented the 2nd Bone Springs this quarter or last quarter Wolfcamp in the 3Q and Leonard since the beginning of the year.
I mean can you walk me through how long it takes you to substantially implement those designs across your Delaware and Bakken positions? I'm just wondering how we should think about how long it takes to get to a similar percentage of high-density completions as you have in the Eagle Ford and the rest of your portfolio.
Evan you have seen this work so well throughout all of our plays.
We are under implementation currently.
So it's in place and then we are seeing how we can make further improvements in this which is just EOGs way to do our business.
So it's in place.
Then the Eagle Ford and we are running it in the Permian Basin and also in the Rocky Mountains and most all of our plays.
We're thrilled with the results.
And we are being able at first our cost was a little bit higher and you will notice that looking at the Eagle Ford slightly higher but we are finding ways to bring those costs down now.
Great.
I will leave it there.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Yes.
Good morning to everyone there.
If I could take another stab at the completion questions specifically the high density and the anti-density completion in the Bakken.
I think during David's prepared comments you mentioned that what I thought I heard was that was the first completion in the site in the Antelope extension area.
And I'm wondering if you could give us a little history of how long you have been doing this and in what areas you have been doing it and really that's a remarkable result with the Riverview well.
And I'm wondering how applicable is that new completion technique across your whole footprint up there? Yes Charles.
This is David.
That's correct.
That was the first what we have considered high density completion in Antelope.
And obviously the results speak for themselves.
It is an excellent well and we have been like Gary had mentioned we are applying those techniques really all across the company and certainly cross the Bakken.
No two wells are exactly the same.
We always customize the completion job based on the geology.
So we are implementing those types of techniques really there at Antelope and in the Bakken core.
Obviously we are doing that in the Eagle Ford and the Delaware Basin as well.
But we are seeing a tremendous uplift in the productivity of the wells.
Got it.
And so in the core as well as the extension -- antelope extension? Yes.
The completions aren't identical like I said because the geology varies throughout the area but the key aspects of the completions will be implemented in the core and on down the road and in the non-core as well.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then Bill if I could try one more stab at this 2016 picture that obviously everyone is curious about but you guys are still working on it if I knew that you have this discipline returns focus.
I'm wondering if you could foresee if the forward curve does bear out is there a time in 2016 when you think -- when you could foresee having progressed enough on the efficiency and cost front that the returns would be sufficient that you would want to go ahead and accelerate completion activity even if we're still looking at $52 oil at the of 2016? Charles we are going to – that's really good question.
Really even if oil stays where it is right now we are going to go ahead and move forward in a pretty aggressive fashion on that DUC inventory in the first part of the year.
That would be the highest return decision that we could make with our capital.
We really thought through this and we worked on this plan back in late 2014 and really thought the consequences of all the different price scenarios as we considered it over kind of a two year period.
And so we will be starting completion fairly aggressive on these DUCs early next year.
Thank you Bill.
I appreciate the comments.
We will take our next question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
Hi guys.
I was hoping for a little bit more color around the stagger stack activity here in Eagle Ford.
Just trying to get a sense of what type of space between wellbores you guys are imploring and basically how long have you had some of these pilots on and when you think we might see results here? Yes Leo.
This is Billy Helms.
For our staggered W patterns that we are testing now we actually have several patterns across the field that we're testing as we speak.
Just a reminder in our last update on the Eagle Ford we have about 3.2 billion barrels of recoverable oil out of 7200 locations.
That's an average of about 40 acre spacing.
So obviously we're testing spacing.
And these are W patterns in the lower Eagle Ford only.
And so that spacing would be somewhat less than 40 acres each.
Spacing pattern is slightly different.
And we are just beginning to see some of those early results and actually just testing some of them haven't even come on production yet.
So we still need some time to evaluate the production from these to understand what the impact is going to be.
To the field obviously we are pretty optimistic based on some of the early results we have seen but it is still early yet to really talk about the impact so we are encouraged though.
Okay.
That's helpful.
I guess I think a lot of people are curious about whether or not there is any decent kind of M&amp;A your acreage acquisition opportunities out there on the market giving low prices? Can you guys kind of address your thoughts on the current M&amp;A market? Yes Leo.
This is Billy Helms again.
Just like many of our peer companies we are looking for those opportunities.
I think you can see prices have been fairly good as far as people selling properties.
I think evaluations are still pretty high.
You have seen very few large M&amp;A structures out there and I think we are kind of see the same thing.
We have evaluated many things.
I think what you will probably see more of is the smaller tactical acquisitions.
That's kind of what we are maybe more focused on than any kind of large M&amp;A things out there.
We are seeing opportunities in different basins and we are actively looking at things we are still optimistic that we are going to be able to do some more small tactical acquisitions and build acreage positions in some of our key or emerging plays.
We are having some success in just acquiring lease sold in some of our new emerging plays more so than we have in the past.
So that's positive.
So overall I think right now the deals that are out there and available there is still quite a bit of money chasing them.
The prices are still pretty highly valued for the oil properties.
So the key is trying to find things for us for EOG the key is finding things that will add good valuable acreage that will compete with our existing inventory.
But we're going to be very selective in what we chase.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Subash Chandra with Guggenheim Securities.
Yes.
Hi.
Good morning.
From your comment earlier that your base decline rate is you're making progress there et cetera.
So is it fair to conclude that you are pretty well convinced the combination of lateral targeting and high density completion is enhancing oil recovery versus accelerated recovery of existing reserves? And that the decline curve does not change on these completions versus the base completions? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes Subash.
We are fairly convinced that we are not competing for a reserve with offset wells.
And the reason is that these high density completions they do two things.
They connect up more of the rock along the lateral and the second thing they do is they really help contain the geometry of the frac.
So the frac does not frac out as long it's far in a lateral extent or even if it doesn't frac vertically a great distance to connect up a significant amount of rock.
So the fracs are not competing with each other for production.
So we used to think it has really been a shift in thinking we used to think that these big fracs just connected up a lot of rock both laterally and vertically but as we go forward and we change the design and we get more data we become more convinced that the frac is just especially these high density fracs is really most effective very very close to the wellbore.
So that is really helping to boost our confidence and that we're going to add additional reserve potential going forward.
Got it.
Thank you.
And my follow-up it is something you have hesitated to answer before.
I will try it again anyway.
But is there any regional color you can give on production by basin in your guide which areas might be raising and falling et cetera? No.
Other than just generally we don't guide by area.
And we're not going to be doing that in the future but you can generally the Eagle Ford is obviously our strongest producer.
The Bakken and the Permian are kind of second and third but our activity as you all know in the Delaware Basin this year has doubled from last year.
So we are growing volumes there rather rapidly in the Permian.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Brian Cox with Deutsche Bank.
Great.
Thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Maybe a segue one my first question on the Permian.
I don't need to be nitpicky but it seemed like there was a relative shift away from the Leonard and towards the Wolfcamp and the Delaware Basin.
Has there been any change the way you view the plays or is this just the Wolfcamp getting better and maybe just some overall commentary on your thoughts on the Delaware portfolio and potential for acceleration going forward? Yes Brian.
This is Billy Helms.
In the Delaware Basin certainly we are excited about all three of the major plays we have there.
The Wolfcamp the Bone Springs and the Leonard.
For the Leonard it's more – it's more mature play for EOG.
We have been operating there.
We have more history.
We understand the play a little bit more than we do some of the other plays.
So we have shifted some of that activity to the Wolfcamp and Bone Springs.
The Bone Springs probably has the biggest relative increase in capital this year.
We completed quite a few wells in the first half.
And then the Wolfcamp will be completing more wells in the second half of the year than we have in the first half but in general the Wolfcamp we are still learning a lot about it.
We have got quite a few targets zones we are testing.
We are testing various areas of the Wolfcamp play where we have acreage and we're testing some various spacing patterns.
So we still have a lot to learn about the Wolfcamp.
The other thing we're doing is with the Wolfcamp being in the deeper target we are gathering additional data on the Leonard and Bone Springs pay zones when we drill down through those on our way to the Wolfcamp.
So by gathering additional petrophysical data and rock data we are better able to look at the variability of the pace actions and those two shallower pay zones and gives us a better idea about how to develop those how to better target those and where the best upside might be.
So it is kind of an overall approach to understand the play better.
And that's one reason major reason we have shifted more to the Wolfcamp.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And then maybe just an overall question on portfolio -- on the broader company portfolio.
At this point we have had questions about the potential for acquisitions but are there any interest on your end in divestitures our international assets still considered core at this point or is there any other parts of the portfolio when you think about long-term portfolio optimization where you could be a potential seller? Brian yes.
We were always interested in upgrading our portfolio.
And so every year we mix in property sales in our plan and this year is no different; 2016 will be no different.
And we want to continue to divest -- think about divesting the properties that are less profitable obviously that don't fit our CapEx requirements.
We have such an enormous high-graded inventory to develop we are always wanting to evaluate the potential of our existing properties.
At this point in the company we don't really have a lot of what I would call crummy properties or not quality properties.
All of our properties are fairly quality but we're going to be looking at continuing to upgrade our portfolio as we go forward.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Thank you and good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Bill you had some good commentary good Q&amp;A earlier on 2016.
I appreciate all that but just trying to distill some of the earlier questions this morning.
Are you saying that you think if the current strip that EOG can keep exit rate 2015 production flat next year within cash flow? I think that is an accurate statement Pearce.
We are set up so well with the DUC inventory that even with the low prices we would have enough cash flow to keep production flat.
All right.
Thank you for that.
And then my follow-up does you had the good news slide in your deck about compensation factor weightings for the E&amp;P industry.
And EOG had much less emphasis on production and reserve growth than peers and I assume obviously that leads into your decision to build the DUC inventory in the second half of this year higher than what you originally thought and be restrained on production because of the lower price environment that we are in.
However earlier on the call you stated that you would not have 2016 production decline year-over-year at the current strip.
So if the returns for 2016 aren't that great and your compensation structure doesn't tell you to push production why wouldn't you employ the same strategy in 2016 as you are employing in the second half of this year or is there a mechanical reason why you don't want production to decline? Is it problematic or is it just strictly cash flow needs? I think next year Pearce what we are saying is that even with the minimum even with the low-price cash flow scenario the highest return investment we could make in the company would be to begin completing those DUCs and complete those DUCs earlier in the year versus spending that money on other things.
So the quality of these DUCs is very high quality.
So we have infrastructure in place.
So that would be the highest return place to put the money.
Thank you Bill.
We will take our next question from Irene Haas with Wunderlich.
Yes.
Hi.
I specifically would like to ask you a question in North Delaware basin.
I am noticing these wells are really very very attractively priced like $7 million D&amp;C.
So question is this is less overpressure how many streams of casing do you use up there? And also these quotes we're looking at are they in patch sort of patch drilling for pat mode could we expect for the more reduction to come? And then alluding a little bit to something you said earlier in the final development scheme which would be specing these really prolific zones together when you go into manufacturing mode that's probably something different from Eagle Ford.
Hello Irene.
This is Gary Thomas.
Yes we are really pleased with the progress we have made there in the Delaware.
But I would say it's really early on and you really that was really good comment there as far as yes it is overpressured and we are still working on our wellbore geometry.
So we have tested several different things.
We believe that we will be able to get to a point where we are looking at two string design and just like we always do and like you have seen us do in the Eagle Ford and in the Bakken we will just continue to reduce those days and we will reduce those costs.
Because -- go ahead Irene.
Go ahead.
I’m sorry.
I was just going to say yes you look through those various plays and we reduced our days anywhere from oh goodness 15% to 30%.
And of course that translates to cost.
We are really making a lot of progress on the completion side in cost reduction.
So yes overall our total well cost has been reduced by about 20%.
But again it's less in the Delaware and we're just kind of turning that on [indiscernible].
So I was wondering for the two wells you quoted they are really short lateral and they got some really kind of impressive rates.
And so my question for you are you targeting pure shale or are you looking for something a little different? The Wolfcamp is I would say it's we're looking at whatever the best pay target is in those at this point in time.
So in every one of these plays as Bill mentioned earlier we are spending a lot of time on targeting and trying to understand what the best part of that rock is if it's a shale that's great.
If it's not it's a silk stone we look at those.
So each area the target varies and so we spend quite a bit of time trying to understand what is the best target and then how do we best develop that? And the completion approach varies on each one of those.
And the spacing approach might vary on each one of those.
In general our target windows are getting much more narrow than they had been in the past and we are seeing that by keeping the wellbores in the best rock longer and being able to more intentionally complete those wells in that best target productivity is better and the declines are lower.
Great.
It sounds like a really surgical approach.
We hope so.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Phillips Johnston with Capital One.
Hi guys.
Thanks.
My first question is on LOE costs.
We saw a nice decline this quarter and the guidance suggests that the run rate should be in the low $6 range or so because which is also down from all of last year.
We have seen most other companies report lower LOE costs as well.
I'm just trying to gauge how sustainable to lower trend is for you guys.
It looks like decline for EOG was less a function of fewer workovers but rather a significant decline on the O&amp;M front.
You have referenced the impact of new infrastructure in the core of the Williston but can you maybe talk about which components of O&amp;M you are seeing costs decline and how much of those savings are secular versus cyclical? Yes.
This is Gary Thomas.
I'm sure you noticed that the first quarter and we commented on that last earnings call it was above our guidance and our reason is we were a little bit late getting some of our infrastructure installed and that all did come on.
So we had that infrastructure in place and our major plays a few other things yet to be done there.
So as far as driving our cost down the way we have here this second quarter it's about half through having infrastructure maybe a quarter of that just vendor cost reduction and other quarter would be just efficiency gains.
So a large portion of that will be sustainable.
It's really we always make comments about our infrastructure and that spending but it sure has been official for us getting our cost down and you will notice that our chart number 12 there really pleased with us becoming more of liquids company and then being able to maintain our lifting cost fairly flat.
Sounds good.
The second – The second question your production guidance suggests roughly a 2% up tick in [indiscernible] in the fourth quarter after three quarters of sequential declines.
I just wanted to reconcile that up tick with the fact that you guys spent about 60% of your capital budget for the year in the first half and you also reduced the number of expected net completions in the Eagle Ford and the Permian by about 50 wells for the year.
That kind of goes back to the time required from the point of -- yes you initiate the well or even initiate the completion with us having several of these big part of our wells and now our own on pads so you bring numbers of wells on.
So yes we are going to be bringing cost down and we will be able to maintain our production here with this second half as we have guided.
Okay.
Just a follow-up on that.
Are you able to say what percentage of the 405 net wells you plan to complete in Eagle Ford Bakken Permian have you completed in the first half of the year? Yes.
First half is roughly 55% second half like 45%.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Thomas at this time I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Yes.
I did have a couple of final remarks.
First of all thank you for the great questions.
I also want to thank all the employees of EOG for their tremendous efforts and contributions this year in making the EOG successful just did an outstanding job.
My final message is this I think you have heard it all through the call the company continues to be focused on creating long-term shareholder value.
We are not chasing short-term volumes in an oversupplied oil market.
We have really focused on the fundamentals improving returns improving operating margins and building decades of high return growth potential.
Our plan EOGs plan is to deliver value to shareholders with high margin high return production growth for years to come.
So I want to thank everybody for listening and certainly thank you for your support.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's call.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources’ Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to the Chief Financial Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Tim Driggers.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone saw the press release announcing third quarter 2015 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements are outlined in the earnings release and EOG’s SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedules for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our Web site at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies and their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release in the Investor Relations page of our Web site.
Participating on the call this morning are Bill Thomas Chairman and CEO; Gary Thomas President and Chief Operating Officer; Billy Helms EVP Exploration &amp; Production; David Trice EVP Exploration &amp; Production; Lance Terveen VP Marketing Operations and Cedric Burgher Senior VP Investor and Public Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our Web site yesterday evening and we included fourth quarter and full year guidance in yesterday's press release.
This morning Bill Thomas will start with a few opening remarks followed by Billy Helms and David Trice to review operational results.
I will then discuss EOG’s financials capital structure and hedge position and Bill will provide concluding remarks.
Here is Bill Thomas.
Thanks Tim and good morning everyone.
Our goal this year has been to transition the company to be successful in a low commodity price environment.
To achieve this goal our 2015 game plan is focused on the following objectives; one maximize return on capital invested; two improve well performance through technology and innovation; three achieve significant cost reductions through sustainable efficiency gains; four take advantage of opportunities to add drilling inventory; and five maintain a strong balance sheet.
As the year draws to a close I am pleased to report we’re right on track with our plan we have maximized return on capital invested by directing capital to our best plays the Eagle Ford Bakken and Delaware Basin.
We are having a record year of well productivity improvements and cost reductions.
Ongoing completions and the new work we are doing on targeting mean EOG continues to drill the strongest horizontal wells in the industry.
As a result of these efforts our largest and best assets now generate over 40% direct after tax rate of return with $50 oil.
Making a solid return in horizontal oil at $50 is an excellent achievement.
On the cost side we’re making substantial improvements.
Year-over-year third quarter per unit lease operating expense was down 17% per unit transportation was down 11% and total G&amp;A was down 6%.
In recent years we’ve grown inventory at twice the rate of drilling 2015 is no exception.
This is a record year for adding high quality drilling potential.
Last quarter we increased our Bakken and Three Forks’ net potential reserves by 600 million barrels of oil equivalent.
This quarter we increased our Delaware Basin net potential reserves by 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
As you read in our press release we made three tactical acquisitions in the Delaware Basin adding significant high quality drilling potential.
In total we added over 1.6 billion barrels of net reserve potential and over 3 000 net locations this year and we’ve achieved this incredible growth through our reserve and drilling potential while maintaining one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry.
To summarize our progress report; in 2015 we maximized return on capital invested added significant future growth potential and maintained a strong balance sheet.
All year long our focus has been on the improving fundamentals and building future potential instead of chasing short-term volume growth.
We believe this demonstrates that EOG’s priorities are squarely focused on returns and creating long-term shareholder value.
I’ll now turn the call over to Billy Helms to discuss the big news this quarter our resource upgrade to the Delaware Basin.
Thanks Bill.
Last night we announced a significant upgrade to our Delaware Basin assets.
We increased the estimated net resource potential to 2.35 billion barrels of oil equivalent that is a 74% increase from our resource estimate just two years go.
The expanded resource provides 2 200 additional net locations adding to what was already decades of drilling inventory.
The primary driver of this upgrade is our constant focus on improving well results through the application of technology and targeting.
We've a proven track record of increasing in a play’s potential and this quarter our success is evident in the Wolfcamp and Second Bone Spring Sand plays.
In the Wolfcamp we’re adding net potential reserves of 500 million barrels of oil equivalent and almost 1 000 net wells.
We now estimate the Wolfcamp's total net potential reserves to be 1.3 million barrels of oil equivalent from 2 050 net drilling locations.
This estimate is based on a highly detailed evaluation of multiple distinct intervals within a geologically complex basin like other plays we've found that by first identifying and then targeting discrete intervals we can dramatically improve the performance of the wells and ultimately the recovery from the reservoir.
There are several potential targets within the Wolfcamp and we had successful tests in at least three.
This resource estimate includes wells plays and these tested intervals across all of our acreage with well spacing that varies from 660 feet to 1 320 feet between wells in the same zone.
To summarize it more simply this resource estimate assumes at least one productive interval across all of our acreage with wells spaced about 700 feet apart.
Similar to other resource plays we’re testing powder spacing with encouraging results.
Last quarter we drilled a two well pattern on 880 foot spacing Dragon 36 State 701H and 702H.
These wells are at these rates averaged over 2 300 barrels of oil per day.
This quarter we drilled a two well pattern in the same area on closer spacing at 500 feet apart the Brown Bear 36 State 702H and 703H.
Their initial production averaged over 3 000 barrels of oil per day per well.
We’re drilling wells closer while maintaining or improving their EURs.
Another highlight in the third quarter was the Thor 21 702H.
This is an industry record horizontal Wolfcamp well with a 30 day IP of 30 490 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
All these Wolfcamp wells are in the oil window which we identified late last year wells in this window produce at least 50% oil versus 31% in the combo play with this resource update we initiated a separate Wolfcamp oil window gross EUR of 750 MBoe per well.
Wells completed in the Combo area maintained their previously estimated gross EUR of 900 MBoe per well.
We’re encouraged by these results and continue to test and evaluate tighter well spacing patterns along with multiple targets.
With approximately two-thirds of our acreage in the oil window this play will generate very competitive returns during this period of low commodity prices.
In the Second Bone Springs Sand we initiated our net resource potential estimate to 500 million barrels of oil equivalent and 1 250 net well locations.
Like the Wolfcamp this estimate is a result of a detailed evaluation of recent completions in multiple targets that presumes at least one productive target across all of our acreage.
The well count constitutes actual sticks on map locations and while well spacing varies across the play by area and target in general it averages about 850 feet.
We first discussed this oil target last year and are very encouraged with initial well results.
The Second Bone Springs Sand provides an attractive third leg to our Delaware Basin activity.
The Leonard is the most material of our Delaware Basin plays and we continue to make progress improving results.
A recent four well package mentioned in the press release the Hawk 35 Fed 7 through 10H was completed on 500 foot spacing with an average IP of 1 615 barrels of oil per day these wells are producing on par with net wells drilled on water spacing last year.
Again this is the testament to the progress we've made on completion technology in the Delaware Basin.
Moving forward we expect to develop this resource using 300 to 500 foot spacing.
We had one other significant success in the Delaware Basin last quarter.
Last night we announced that through three transactions we added 26 000 net acres in Loving County Texas and Lea County New Mexico.
Since the start of the year we've mentioned our heightened interest in acquisition opportunities driven by the oil price down cycle while we didn't initially rule out corporate M&amp;A we quickly focused our efforts on targeting smaller more tactical acquisitions.
These types of opportunities are more likely to compete with our existing high quality inventory because the acreage is mostly undeveloped and is concentrated in the core of these plays.
We are already drilling this highly prospective acreage and the potential reserve estimates from these acquisitions are included in our updated Delaware Basin numbers.
EOG’s Delaware Basin potential is rapidly increasing and we expect this asset to be a significant top-tier contributor to the future growth of the company.
In the Eagle Ford after five years and three resource upgrades to this world class play we are still excited about the learning and the technical progress we make every quarter.
We continue to test and evaluate the Lower Eagle Ford W pattern mentioned in last quarter’s call.
While the W pattern is not new to the industry there is one significant difference to the spacing test the vertical spacing between target intervals is not necessarily an arbitrary distance but rather is determined by certain characteristics of the rock.
Our W pattern test is specifically designed to take advantage of technical findings from the work we are doing around targeting.
We started this targeting work by analyzing 60 unique well characteristics from hundreds of recently drilled Eagle Ford wells.
From these 60 we identified 12 characteristics that are present in our best wells by incorporating this data into our 3D seismic and petrophysical data we determined that the Lower Eagle Ford may have two sweet spot intervals.
Please be sure to look for the slide in our IR deck that graphically demonstrates this finding.
The laterals in our W pattern test are geo-steered to very specific areas that meet specific criteria.
These targets can be as narrow as 20 feet.
Initial results from these tests are promising as we gather more data conduct more tests and evaluate the results we will bring you updates.
I’ll turn it over to David Trice to discuss the Bakken and the Rockies.
Thanks Billy.
In the Rockies we continue to maximize the value of our acreage position by using enhanced completion techniques and lowering capital and operating expenses dramatically.
As you may recall last quarter we announced that we areimplementing high density completions in some Rockies’ wells that are similar to the completions currently used in the Eagle Ford while the geology varies from play-to-play and even within the same play we see the upside in our ability to increase value through high density and integrated completion techniques.
In the Bakken we are focused on completing infill wells in our core area using our latest completion technology.
Even though these infill wells are among oil producing wells our integrated completion approach ensures that we effectively stimulate the reservoir and deliver high rate of return and maximum value.
An example of infill wells in our core acreage is a three well pad on the Parshall 3029 unit.
This pad came online with an average initial rate of over 1 800 barrels of oil per day and 1 million cubic feet per day of rich natural gas per well.
These wells are spaced just 500 feet apart and use shorter laterals that average less than 6 000 feet.
Our latest Bakken wells are averaging just 7.6 days spud-to-TD for an 8 400 foot lateral and cost $7 million.
This is a reduction of 20% from 2014.
In addition we have lowered LOE in the Bakken core area up to $5 a barrel through infrastructure investment such as water gathering systems.
All of these improvements will allow us to maximize the value of this 1 billion barrel equivalent asset and deliver solid returns even in a low oil price environment.
In the DJ Basin we continue to refine our drilling techniques and implement high density completions.
Long-term data is needed to fully evaluate the results however initial data indicates improved performance.
In the third quarter we brought online a four wall pad that targeted the Codell Sandstone.
These wells are located in the windy 1705 and 1720 units and produced an average initial rate in excess of 1 100 barrels of oil per day with 600 Mcf per day of rich natural gas per well using an average lateral length of 8 700 feet.
Recent well cost in the Codell are averaging just $7 million for a 9 400 foot lateral with the latest well performance in lower well cost the Codell is delivering a direct A tax rate of return approaching 30%.
As greater efficiency continues to drive down cost we believe we can achieve a target well cost of $6.1 million.
These successes in the Codell are another example of how we are transitioning EOG to be successful in a low commodity price environment.
The Powder River Basin remains a core position for EOG although capital spending is lower this year we continue to work the technical details block up acreage and to secure regulatory permits.
All of this will set up the Powder River Basin as a future growth engine for EOG.
I’ll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks David.
For the third quarter capitalized interest was $9.8 million.
Total cash exploration and development expenditures were $970 million excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $51 million.
There were $368 million of property acquisitions during the quarter.
Year-to-date total cash exploration and development expenditures were $3.7 billion excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligations expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $253 million.
During the third quarter EOG incurred $4.1 billion in non-cash property impairment charges net of tax.
The impairments were due to declines in the forward commodity prices and were related to some of our legacy natural gas and marginal liquid assets.
At the end of September total debt outstanding was $6.4 billion for debt-to-capitalization ratio of 33%.
We had $743 million of cash on hand giving us a non-GAAP net debt of $5.7 billion and a net debt to total cap ratio of 30%.
Approximately 5% of the 8% increase from the end of June was due to the non-cash impairment recognized this quarter.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter was 35% and the deferred tax ratio was 101%.
In terms of our hedge positions for the period November 1 through December 31 2015 EOG has crude oil financial price swap contracts in place for 10 000 barrels of oil per day at a weighted average price of $89.98 per barrel.
In addition for November 2015 EOG has put options in place which established a core price of $45 per barrel or 82 500 barrels of oil per day.
For the month of December 2015 EOG has natural gas financial price swap contracts in place for 175 MMBtu per day at a weighted average price of $4.51 per MMBtu.
Now turn I’ll turn it back to Bill.
Thanks Tim.
Now a quick word on the macro.
Our view has not changed the industry is becoming more disciplined.
The U.S.
is on an oil production decline based on the EIE data and could exit the year 500 000 to 600 000 barrels of oil per day lower than peak production recorded in April.
Worldwide longer-term projects are being cut but we agree with the consensus view that $40 to $50 oil is not sustainable and supply demand is in the process of slowly rebalancing.
Regarding 2016 although our planning process won't be complete until the beginning of the year when we have a better view of oil prices I'll share a little color on our situation.
EOG is uniquely positioned for strong performance next year.
We’ll enter 2016 with a large high quality inventory of drilled but uncompleted wells and we've few capital commitments therefore we have flexibility with respect to our CapEx program.
The highest return use of our capital next year will be to complete many of our DUCs in the first half of the year.
This will allow us to have a strong start to 2016.
As always we've no interest in outspending and expect to balance CapEx and discretionary cash flow.
Our focus will be on increasing capital returns increasing the quality of our inventory and reducing operating cost.
2015 is rapidly coming to a close and I could not be prouder of how the EOG team has been executing on our plan.
As I have said at the start of the year I've seen many downturns in my 36 years with the company each time EOG emerges on the other side in better shape this is exactly how 2015 is playing out.
But there is one primary take away from the call today.
EOG is quickly adapting to be successful in a low oil price environment.
We’re not depending on a rebound to high oil prices instead we’re making the most of the current price environment by focusing on improving fundamentals and building future potential.
In fact 2015 has been EOG's best year in terms of the magnitude of improvements in the Company.
Regardless of where we’re in the commodity cycle EOG is committed to return focused capital discipline year-after-year.
The Company remains focused on creating long-term shareholder value.
Thanks for listening.
And now we’ll go to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically.
[Operator Instructions] Questions are limited to one question and one follow-up question.
We will take as many questions as time permits.
[Operator Instructions] And we’ll take our first question from Leo Mariani with RBC.
Wanted to touch base on the enhanced completions it sounds like you're starting to use these in the Delaware Basin here.
Obviously you've had a lot of success in other plays any reason to think that these won't give you a nice improvement in economics here? Leo we’ll ask Billy Helms to comment on that.
Yes Leo this is Billy Helms.
As you mentioned we view these enhanced completions or these high density completions in other plays largely starting in the Eagle Ford where we have certainly demonstrated the uplift associated with executing these high density completions.
We are transferring this technology to other plays including the Delaware Basin and I think the results are very encouraging with what we are seeing there and we are incorporating our high density completions along with are focused on targeting.
And the targeting I think is going to also make a huge difference in the performance of the wells.
I’d say in the Delaware Basin is still early on and we’re evaluating both those two new approaches as well as spacing test in each one of our target intervals and we hope to be able to give you some very positive news in the future on the performance of those efforts.
I guess just turning to the Eagle Ford here just trying to get a sense of where you are at in the process of testing the W patterns and the stagger stacks here? And are you able to kind of see any results at this point and when do you think we'll have a better update on that? Yes Leo this is Billy Helms again on the Eagle Ford we’ve actually got several tests underway using this W pattern test and the W pattern just to make sure we are certain about the explanation that is largely and it is only in the lower Eagle Ford that we are doing the W pattern.
So we’re not -- we’re just focused solely on the W pattern in the Lower Eagle Ford and that’s largely been the focus as a result of our targeting efforts as I started in the Lower Eagle Ford we identified through our analysis of all the core data and the petrophysical data that we have that there are two sweet spot intervals that we wanted to target.
It's still early on we’ve just started testing those and we’re testing those in several areas across the field but we are encouraged with their early results.
The early results look to indicate that these two areas these two sweet spot intervals aren’t interfering with each other during the production phase.
So that gives us a lot of encouragement for additional resource that we’ll be able to capture in the future it is still early yet to really quantify the results from that test but I’d say we’re optimistic about the results.
We’ll go next to Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Bill let me start off on a macro strategy question.
You are one of the best if not the best on conventional operator deep well inventory and a relatively bullish outlook on the commodity.
Philosophically what does your reacceleration look like? Will you be pacing activity within cash flow neutrality on a few quarter lag and given the efficiencies that have accelerated does it change your view on a peak rig count being significantly lower than prior rig count in a recovery scenario? Yes I think the key for us going in next year the advantage we have that we didn’t have in the early part of 2015 is we have an incredible amount of flexibility with our capital.
It's really we just don’t have commitments to international we don’t have lease retention we don’t have as much heavy infrastructure especially first part of the year and we don’t have a lot of service contracts in place.
So we’re free to really put our money on the best rate of return projects or wells and the Company and we’re also free to vary that capital spend rate based on the commodity price and we can react very quickly.
So as we said we’re not going to -- we won’t give specific growth numbers or production numbers or CapEx numbers until February because we’re very committed to staying within cash flow.
So that will really determine our view of -- basically we will use the strip process plus form factor that we have on the macro to kind of determine our CapEx for the year.
And then we will vary that according to the commodity prices as the year goes through.
So it will be a very flexible year and -- but our focus will be of course on increasing returns increasing the quality of our inventory and continuing to prove up new things.
And it sounds like DUCs will be your first lever there.
Let me ask my second or follow-up question on the Delaware.
You're making significant progress.
How long do you think it takes to get to the same level of technological maturity that you have in the Eagle Ford where you're satisfied in your ability to drill within zone optimize completion design? Yes.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Okay yes Evan this is Billy Helms.
Yes for the Delaware Basin as you mentioned there we’re earlier in the ability to really get into a good development program there.
I think the key thing you have to realize about the Delaware Basin as opposed to the Eagle Ford is the Delaware Basin is a highly complex basin the geology changes quite a bit across the basin.
There are multiple targets multiple formations and we've done a -- our team out there has done a great job of really delineating their understanding of the play with the data that we have and we’re always collecting more and more data as we develop the program.
So I would say just to bullet down to maybe base ball terms we’re probably maybe a third inning on the Delaware Basin as opposed to sixth or seventh inning maybe on the Eagle Ford for instance.
We’ll take our next question from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
I'd like to dig in a bit on the -- on the advanced completions and the well productivity that you cited as one of the reasons for your oil volumes coming in over guidance I know that the most prominent thing we see is these great IP rates that you have turned in but the other thing that I believe you've mentioned and we certainly see with the results on these Thor wells that particularly for those Thor wells the 30-day rate is at least as remarkable as the IP rate.
And I'm curious when you look at the effect that these advanced completions are having on your production profile should we be thinking about the beat in 3Q being a function of wells that were completed in 3Q or is it more a function of the wells that were completed in the first half of the year that are holding up better with lower decline that really are leading to beats like this? Yes Charles this is Billy Helms.
Ys I think that’s a good question I think it’s maybe a factor of both certainly the targeting and the high density completions are making a huge difference as evidenced in as what you just mentioned in the Thor well and the other Wolfcamp wells we completed in the last quarter and certainly those are new wells and we’re seeing vast improvements in the productivity of the wells and they are sustaining themselves as evidenced by the 30 day average that you mentioned on the Thor well.
And we've been doing this for a while longer in some of the other plays mainly the Eagle Ford and yes we’re seeing the decline as not as steep on those wells so it has an overall flattening effect on our decline rates on all these programs so we’re seeing the benefit in those two areas.
So it's both.
And then if I could ask a question about the Delaware Basin acquisitions I know that this is a little bit of a change in MO from you who you have historically have been focused really on organic leasing.
Should we be thinking about these acquisitions or further acquisitions like this as the closest you can get to organic leasing in the Delaware Basin given the legacy of vertical production out there? And I suppose as a follow-on to that should we be expecting more similarly sized deals from you guys going forward? Charles this is Bill.
I think I'll ask Billy to comment a bit on that.
But I think it will be a combination we’re doing a lot of little deals along with the bigger deals and so block enough acreage sharing acreage with other operators and slopping it out and some drilled aren’t deals and then we’re also buying some small fracs from different operators.
So it will be a combination of multiple things.
As Billy said we pretty much ruled out any of the bigger M&amp;A possibilities and mainly we ruled that out on asset quality it didn't come in comparable to what we already have.
So we don't really expect to be pursuing anything like that Billy you want to add anything? Yes the only thing I would add Charles to that as I think it -- the acquisitions we've done are largely staying within our focus of growing organically.
The difference would be that the organic growth in new plays we’re still able to go out and get ahead of the competition and acquire positions in new plays fairly cheaply.
In the Delaware Basin it's a very mature basin it is a lot of ownership legacy ownership has been out there for years and years as everybody knows.
So one way to gain entry into acreage that we see quite a bit of upside is through these tactical acquisitions and I would add to Bill's comment we’re being highly selective in what we acquire.
And so we passed up several opportunities that have been transacted that we just passed on and we did focus on these three tactical acquisitions that we are very encouraged with and as a matter of fact we already have drilling operations going on on the acreage that we acquired.
So we’re going to stay selective and continue to grow each of one of these plays in whatever manner we feel like we can.
We’ll take our next question from Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
Yes a question on the acquisitions who were the counter parties were they privates or publics or landowners? They were selective companies and we’re not going to get into details about the deals we have done and certainly not again into the details about the things we’ve looked at it's just something we don’t really comment on.
But I’d say they are all existing companies strong companies that we’ve done business with in the past and hope to continue to do business with in the future and we’ll look at all of the opportunities whether it is small private companies or larger public companies for opportunities to add to our positions.
And then a follow-up on next year how do you think about debt to cap and is it a level that you're happy with or is some of next year's cash flow going to debt reduction? Well yes Bob we’re very committed to keeping a very strong balance sheet.
So we’ll not stretch it much further than then it really is.
Although I will say this we will continue to look for acquisitions and not likely to find a big one but if we find things that are attractive to us we will use -- evaluate all the options that we have to acquire that.
And so the Company is in fantastic shape to do that.
Of course the goal for us has always been to generate free cash flow to continue working on the dividend down the road too we needed a little bit better commodity price than we have right now to accomplish that but that will be a goal for us going forward.
We also continue to market non-core properties that has been an ongoing process for the Company for years.
So we’re in the process of doing that again this year too.
So we’ve got multiple ways to continue to keep the net debt of the Company low and to really preserve our balance sheet.
We’ll go next to Doug Leggate with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Bill within the scheme of living within cash flow obviously you've had a fairly large international project pretty much close to conclusion now a lot of exploration spending and a fair amount of midstream spending.
Just in the grand scheme of things within the different buckets can you generalize whether you will see an incremental swing back towards completions within the context of living within cash flow in terms of your capital spending? Yes Doug specifically yes for 2016 with the very large uncompleted well inventory certainly the focus of the CapEx and that will be the highest return thing we can invest in next year we will be on completing that inventory and lower that inventory down.
So it gives us a lot of flexibility because we just don’t have always all these other big commitments and that will certainly give us I think stronger capital efficiency a very-very high return on our capital next year.
I guess not to push the point Bill but I guess I was kind of hoping you might quantify order of magnitude.
Exploration IOC midstream I'm guessing it's close to 20%-25% of this year's budget.
I mean could it be that big of a swing in terms of incremental completion capital? No I think the -- we call that kind of the indirect that will be roughly about the same percentage that it has been in the past.
Maybe not quite as much in the first part of the year but certainly we’ve got things that we need to do in those areas.
As far as international projects we don’t have many significant commitments next year on international it's actually less I think than historically.
Let me ask Gary Thomas to comment and chime here and give a little bit more color on that.
One thing on the indirects and you talked about the midstream it will be benefitted next year with us having these doubts because they are in areas where we have quite a lot of operations currently so we will have less infrastructure requirements just to hook those wells up.
So it would be a little less than what we have experienced 2014-2015.
We’ll take our next question from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Let me run with that same theme.
If I think about maintenance CapEx I think you have thrown out a number before $4.8 billion.
One is that the right number? And two obviously that number goes lower.
Can you give us any framework around that? That’s when you look at what we are spending now and that came up and we’re looking at spending $1 billion this quarter and probably somewhere around maybe 900 million for next quarter this fourth quarter.
So it could be talked out there has been maintenance capital but yes when we go into ’16 we’ll not have to be spending money associated with locations with the drilling with quite a lot associated with these stuffs.
So that will probably reduce per well about 30% but the 4.8 is -- our maintenance capital was quite a bit less than that.
Yes yes I think that was a prior number okay that's helpful.
And if I think about the DUC -- the pace of the DUC drawdown I think before we talked about mid-year are you just going to take them down -- should we think about it systematically taking down 200 over the first six months of the year or how should we -- can you give us any framework around just the pace or the timing of that? Yes David let me answer that one.
We've a lot of flexibility so really the pace of our spending and the pace of our activity will be very much guided by the commodity price and the resulting cash flow.
So that’s the reason we’re not giving any really details because we want to work our plan more every time we work our plan it gets a little better so we’re very encouraged about that and then we certainly need to have a lot better insight on what the cash flow and commodity price would be.
So it will be regulated by really the oil price.
For our next question we’ll go to Kevin Smith with Raymond James.
It seems the industry playbook is fairly standard with drilling longer laterals and pumping more sand in your completions but you were able to deliver record-breaking well results in the Wolfcamp with a lateral less than 5 000 feet is it fair to say then that EOG believes completion and maybe zone landing are more incrementally economic than just drilling longer laterals? Yes Kevin this is Billy Helms.
That’s exactly what we would say is that the completion and targeting are making a huge difference regardless of lateral length and we’re not focused on drilling necessarily longer laterals to make better wells we’re focused on increasing our rate of return driving rate of return through the innovation and application of technology which includes how we analyze and figure out where the place to lateral in each of these pay objectives that’s a big part of why the productivity on these wells is increasing every quarter is that continual focus on those two things the technology around completions and also the landing spot that we’re working on with our geological effort.
And then lastly thank you for that but given the Wolfcamp drilling results does the Delaware Basin start competing with capital versus the Bakken or other plays? Yes Kevin this is Billy Helms again.
Yes I think while it's still early to think about what that’s going to mean for next year's capital allocation.
I think if you look back to this year this year the Delaware Basin was the only area that saw an increase in capital from 2014.
And we’ll certainly assess the way that looks.
I would say we’re very encouraged with the productivity gains we've made and the progress we’re seeing on that play to be able to generate growth for the Company and we’ll evaluate our options on how we allocate capital as we get closer to the year-end.
We’ll take our next question from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Bill thanks for your comments on 2016.
My first question is if you match CapEx and cash flow do you expect to deliver oil production growth in 2016? Yes Pearce again that’s a good question because we don't know what that cash flow and CapEx will be yet because we will set that based on the oil price and that’s what we’re -- wanted to get a little bit better deal on down the road.
We certainly are in a position next year to have a very strong performance.
And if we have the support from the oil price the Company is in great shape.
So but we’ll just have to wait to give any specific numbers until February.
And then my follow-up is when it's time to ramp production for EOG and the rest of the industry are you concerned about the deliverability of the service industry given the sizable headcount reductions across the states and maybe some degradation on some of the pieces of equipment? Pearce this is Gary Thomas.
And yes there is some concern with that and we've talked quite a lot about that and maintaining the activity level that we have maintained and what we've planned to do in 2016 we’re focused on those companies that are really quality companies and have been tremendous partners to EOG and we’re spreading that word trying to keep them in good shape.
So it's going to be hard on the industry.
I believe you're correct there but I think we’re positioned so that we’ll be able to get the top services and hopefully we have got a lot of self sourcing going on with EOG anyway.
So I think we can really ramp-up readily when we see commodity prices improve.
We’ll go next to Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
If I could maybe follow up with a couple questions on the Delaware Basin.
I appreciate your earlier comments about uncertainties in terms of relative capital allocation across the portfolio next year.
Maybe as you think about relative capital allocation within the Delaware Basin I mean is there a pecking order in terms of which of the three plays have the best rates of return at this point and how much does infrastructure at this point dictate relative activity between Leonard versus Bone Spring versus Wolfcamp? Yes Ryan this is Billy Helms.
So yes we’ve got three really good plays out there the Leonard the Bone Springs and the Wolf Camp.
And what we’re doing right now is we’re focusing most of our activity on the lower most of those zones to Wolf Camp for a couple of reasons; one the Wolf Camp is generating really high rate of returns that are competitive with pretty much every play in the Company.
And then two it really gives us by drilling the deeper objective it gives us a chance to evaluate the shallower objectives as we drill through them.
So we can gather log data and other data that we need to really help delineate the shallower plays and that will help us improve our returns on those plays and make them even stronger when we start our development in those plays.
On infrastructure we’re focusing most of our activity in areas where we already have existing infrastructure.
As we step out and test some of the new areas we’re certainly going to have to build out an infrastructure in those areas.
But right now most of our activity is in areas where have infrastructure available to us.
And do you have sufficient infrastructure to allocate materially more capital going forward or is this still a waiting game I guess? Ryan this is Lance.
When we look at their takeaway capacity it's been very encouraging.
I mean the midstream operators are really fall through with investment and we’re going to be connected to all that near-term capacity so and just to follow-up what Billy said we’re in great shape as we’re sitting today.
We’ll take our next question from Irene Haas from Wunderlich.
My question has to do with your targeting effort.
I wish there's a fancy schmancy name for it but it's really intriguing.
So on slide 9 you show that there's 12 parameters that you have identified.
You sum it together and that kind of gives you the targeted zone.
And my question for you is some those parameters can you share a little bit like are they porosity permeability as such and is it hard to replicate? My question really stems from you said in Eagle Ford you're in the sixth inning so in terms of just data density you have a whole lot to work on.
Would it be a harder exercise to pull off in Delaware Basin? And are there anybody else trying to do this? Is this expensive or is it data intensive or simply they need brain cells? And lastly who does the number crunching for you? Do you actually do this analysis in house or do you farm it out to a third-party? Yes Irene this is David Trice.
A lot of this that we’re presenting there is proprietary data.
So we will just give you an example and this is -- a lot of this is built up we’ve been pursuing these resource plays for over a decade and so a lot of this is just it means that we’ve learned over the years and we have some of the very best people in the industry.
And so we’ve been able to put this together through this integrated approach between our G&amp;G guys our petrophysicists and the engineers.
And this is just kind of a core competency of EOG how we approach things.
And so really we can’t really give a lot more detail than that but it is part of our culture.
So what you're saying is it's kind of hard to replicate for a multitude of reasons and is it easier to do it on Eagle versus Delaware because of data density or are you able to forecast because you've got such a great global database on every single shale? Yes I mean if you think about it we’re in really the three major plays so we have a lot of good data throughout all those plays and we’ve got a lot of good rock data petrophysical data and everything.
And so we have -- we’re testing so many different targets and we just have a lot of information and we are able to apply it from play-to-play.
And so I do think as you look towards a play like the Delaware Basin we’re -- you do have multiple targets a lot of that information is going to be even more critical there.
So we do think it is something that is very-very difficult to replicate.
We’ll go now to Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to just follow up on the questions with regards to 2016 and growth.
Just looking at the third quarter here of 2015 where you spent about $1 billion ex the acreage acquisition you grew your oil volumes and what I think you're highlighting here is you're going to be more flexible because of the DUC inventory because you have some of those contracts rolling off.
What are the impediments to showing perhaps not just the growth that we saw in US oil volumes in Q3 but even greater growth next year assuming we're in a $40 to $50 environment? It seems that rate of return is not a question unless you think it is.
What are the impediments to showing -- to showing growth since we just saw it here in the third quarter? Brian this is Gary Thomas.
And it really just goes back to the cash flow and that’s what we’re working so to balance and we’re still working through that and yes the wells we've drilled and completed that will be being official to us but then just as data we were just mentioning we have these new plays and we’re in the experimental phase as well and we've to gather data and have to run quite a number of logs and also there is just a whole combination of things.
So we’re still factoring all those in to see what kind of volume growth we could have with particular oil prices in 2016 but cash flow driven.
And then with regards to the technological improvement here and the higher density completions in particular which do cost some amount more capital can you talk about what you would expect to see in terms of incremental EURs in places like the Delaware the Eagle Ford and the Bakken? And whether that is all upside from here and represents an increase in recovery rate? Yes Brian this is Billy Helms.
I would say that we haven't really quantified in most of plays yet just the magnitude of the improvement we’ll hope to see in EURs from testing the new high density completions as well as the targeting efforts.
The numbers we've given you to-date are based on the results we have and have data on but as we continue to make improvements in both targeting and the high density completions we’re very encouraged with the early results and as we get more data we’ll certainly update its impact on the resource assessments.
So we just need some production time to evaluate that data as well as the different spacing tests that we’re conducting throughout the Company.
And we’ll give you more color on that as we get data.
We’ll go now to Subash Chandra with Guggenheim.
Yes my first question is how do you think about your base decline rate starting in ’16 versus ’15? Yes Subash this is Bill Thomas.
The decline rate in the Company is lowering every year because of we get more old wells versus new wells so the production base gets more mature that’s the major driver.
And then the completion technology is a very significant driver and the quality of the rock that you drill the lateral in as that improves the decline rate lower.
So we've got multiple things going on as far as 2016 versus ’15 it will be lower and particularly when you slow growth down say versus 2014 we grew at 31% well in 2015 our decline rate was higher because then it would be in 2016 because of we grew production and added a lot more new wells in 2014.
So as the activity number of wells as you complete each year as that is lower and then we’ll be coming off a flat growth year in 2015 so it will be significantly lower than what it was in 2014.
And my follow-up is in the Permian plays between the three that you've mentioned how do we think about the water oil ratios either in absolute terms or relative to one other? And that's formation water? Yes Subash this is Billy Helms.
Certainly that’s something we look at on each one of these plays and I would say it varies by target interval but it also varies by where you are in the basin.
So all of these plays have some element of formation water and so it's really important that you understand due to the detailed geological work that we had done to really delineate what we think are the sweet spots and that’s where our efforts are focused on picking up acreage in what we do considering the sweet spots we’re being there very selective about where we drill and where we increased our position in those areas.
And I would say the Leonard play probably has a little bit higher water cut than the Wolfcamp in general but every play has some element of water production.
So you need to have infrastructure to go along with that to make sure that your cost over the life of the play are measurable and competitive with other plays that we have in the Company.
That concludes today’s question-and-answer session.
At this time I’d like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Thomas for any concluding remarks.
Thank you for your questions and again I want to really thank the EOG employees’ who have done a fantastic job this year in giving the Company reset to be very successful on the low commodity prices.
So the combination of the best in class assets technology low cost and organic exploration and all this is driven by EOG’s organization and culture are we believe very sustainable competitive advantages as we go forward.
And this powerful combination will allow EOG to be one of the highest return producers and more importantly we believe we’re going to be more than competitive going forward in the world oil market.
So we want to thank everybody for listening and especially thank you for your support.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the EOG Resources 2015 fourth quarter and full year results conference call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Chief Financial Officer of EOG Resources Mr.
Tim Driggers.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
We hope everyone has seen the press release announcing fourth quarter and full-year 2015 earnings and operational results.
This conference call includes forward-looking statements.
The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and EOG's SEC filings and we incorporate those by reference for this call.
This conference call also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
The reconciliation schedule for these non-GAAP measures to comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website at www.eogresources.com.
The SEC permits oil and gas companies in their filings with the SEC to disclose not only proved reserves but also probable reserves as well as possible reserves.
Some of the reserve estimates on this conference call and webcast may include potential reserves or other estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with or contemplated by the SEC's reserve reporting guidelines.
We incorporate by reference the cautionary note to U.S.
investors that appears at the bottom of our press release and Investor Relations page of our website.
Participating on the call this morning are: Bill Thomas Chairman and CEO; Gary Thomas President and Chief Operating Officer; Billy Helms EVP Exploration and Production; David Trice EVP Exploration and Production; Lance Terveen VP Marketing Operations; and Cedric Burgher Senior VP Investor and Public Relations.
An updated IR presentation was posted to our website yesterday evening and we included guidance for the first and full-year 2016 in yesterday's press release.
This morning we'll discuss topics in the following order.
Bill Thomas will review 2015 highlights and our 2016 capital plan.
David Trice and Billy Helms will review operational results in year-end reserve replacement data.
Then I will discuss EOG's financials capital structure and hedge positioning.
And Bill will provide concluding remarks.
Here's Bill Thomas.
Thanks Tim.
EOG is committed to a returns-focused capital discipline and we've demonstrated that commitment in 2015 with a simple decision.
After four years of 40% compound annual oil growth we slammed on the brakes and decided to defer production growth.
It was an easy decision.
Outspending cash flow to grow oil into an oversupplied market makes no sense.
Rather than chasing production growth through the down cycle we focused on three main goals.
First we concentrated more than ever on resetting the company to be successful in a lower commodity price environment by reducing cost and improving well productivity.
Second we wanted to add high-quality drilling inventory through organic exploration and tactical acquisitions.
And most importantly our third goal was to protect our balance sheet.
As a result EOG had a record year in reducing costs improving well productivity and adding new drilling potential to the company.
We accomplished all this and ended the year with one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry.
Here are a few highlights from the year.
We reduced capital more than 40% from 2014 and maintained flat U.S.
oil production.
Total cash operating cost per unit decreased 17% compared to 2014.
We drilled two industry record wells one each in the Bakken and Delaware Basin Wolfcamp.
We added a company record 1.6 billion barrels of oil equivalent and net resource potential and over 3 000 net locations.
That means we replaced more than six times the inventory that we drilled in 2015.
And we acquired 34 000 net acres in the sweet spot of the Delaware Basin.
2015 changed how we think about EOG's position in the industry long term.
It's no longer enough to be the low-cost producer in U.S.
horizontal shale.
EOG's goal is to be a competitive low-cost oil producer in the global market.
Now let's talk about our plan in 2016.
Our first objective this year is to achieve strong returns on our capital program through sustainable profitability gains.
In order to maximize return on capital invested we are shifting into what we call premium drilling mode.
Like last year we will concentrate our efforts in capital in our top plays the Eagle Ford Delaware Basin Bakken and Rockies.
The difference in 2016 is that we have the flexibility to direct capital only towards our large inventory of premium quality wells.
Premium inventory is defined as wells that generate direct after-tax rates of return of at least 30% at $40 oil.
We have identified over 2 billion barrels of equivalent of net resource potential and 3 200 net drilling locations that meet this hurdle.
At our 2016 pace and we expect to complete 270 wells this year that represents 12 years of drilling potential.
In addition we are confident our premium inventory will continue to grow in size and quality.
Our proven track record of organic exploration and sustainable gains through technology and efficiency will continue to add premium inventory for years to come.
What that means and this is the most important point is that between our existing premium inventory and our confidence that we can replace it EOG will be in premium drilling mode from now on.
EOG's shift to premium drilling in 2016 is not just simple high-grading.
It is a permanent upgrade for all our future drilling.
It's important to realize that this is much more than a small incremental shift in our drilling program.
It's a major step change in terms of per well productivity.
For the average 2016 well we estimate a 50% increase in the first 120 days of production per foot of treated lateral versus wells we completed in 2015.
Our shift to premium drilling allows EOG to quickly return to triple-digit and I'll say this again to quickly return to triple-digit capital rates of return as oil prices improve to modest levels.
So the next logical question is what becomes of the remaining inventory? Our non-premium inventory is still very high-quality.
By any industry standard it is Tier 1 quality with tremendous value.
Due to the quality a large percentage of this inventory will be converted to premium through technology and efficiency gains over time.
The remaining high-quality inventory will add value to property sales or trades as part of our ongoing upgrading process.
Our second objective in 2016 is to protect our balance sheet.
Two years in a row we have cut capital by more than 40% demonstrating our commitment to capital discipline.
In addition as a result of our ongoing evaluation of our portfolio to upgrade our asset base we are marketing certain valuable but non-core properties.
EOG prioritizes profitability and a healthy balance sheet to prepare the company for uncertain commodity cycles and the strategy has paid off.
EOG entered 2016 in excellent financial and operational shape.
The combination of EOG's high-quality assets sustainable cost reductions and well productivity improvements allow the company to lead the industry in returns year after year.
EOG is uniquely positioned with a large and growing inventory of high-return drilling even in a $40 price environment.
Achieving strong returns in the current environment positions EOG to achieve tremendous returns as commodity prices improve.
Now I'll turn the call over David Trice who will update you on the Eagle Ford and Rockies plays.
Thanks Bill.
Year after year the Eagle Ford continues to impress us with the quality of its resource potential.
In 2015 we grew production while completing 38% fewer wells compared to 2014.
Six years ago we estimated the Eagle Ford had 900 million barrels of oil equivalent of net resource potential.
We've since updated that net resource potential three times and our latest estimate from early 2014 was 3.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
In 2015 we've done a number of things that hold promise for further upside to the Eagle Ford's resource potential.
First refinements to our high-density completion techniques continue to improve well productivity in 2015 as can be seen in the cumulative production charts in our investor presentation on page 10.
Second to complement high-density completions we've made tremendous progress on what we have termed precision targeting.
This is one of the most promising developments not only for the Eagle Ford but for all of our plays.
Precision targeting starts with first identifying and then mapping the key petrophysical properties that make the difference between a good well and a great well.
Once all the data has been integrated we found that the real sweet spot in any given target can be very narrow.
Where we previously landed our wells in 150-foot window we now precisely steer them in a window as narrow as 20 feet.
In addition this work on precision targeting also revealed that in some areas we may have two distinct sweet spot targets in the lower Eagle Ford alone.
Finally we conducted a pilot test by drilling adjacent wells in a W-pattern that alternate between the two targets within the lower Eagle Ford.
This allows for surface downspacing closer than the 300 feet used in our current development spacing and resource potential estimates.
Early results from these tests are encouraging.
In 2016 we have more program flexibility as 91% of our Eagle Ford acreage is held by production.
We plan to complete 150 Eagle Ford wells while continuing to test the W-pattern spacing wells 200 to 250 feet apart.
Our advancements in precision targeting and completions along with cost efficiencies may have significant implications on our resource potential.
and will allow us to continue to upgrade additional Eagle Ford locations to premium status.
In our Rockies and Bakken plays we proactively scaled back activity due to commodity prices.
With the lower activity level we were able to sharpen our focus on sustainable operational improvements.
We are very pleased with the progress.
And in fact the magnitude of operational improvements in these plays were the best in the company.
Here are the highlights.
First we upgraded our Bakken net resource potential to 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent and added almost 1 000 net locations.
Second we reduced Bakken completed well cost 18% and drilling days over 30%.
Third we built water handling and water pipeline infrastructure that significantly reduces long-term LOE.
Fourth we drilled several high-quality wells in the Powder River Basin highlighted by the Flatbow 602-1621H that came online in the fourth quarter.
This Turner well averaged over 1 100 barrels of oil per day and 1.7 million cubic feet per day of rich natural gas in its first 90 days of production.
Finally we also drilled an industry record well in the Bakken.
The Riverview 102-32H produced an average of 2 700 barrels of oil per day over the first 30 days and 2 200 barrels of oil per day for the first 90 days of production.
This well was the first high-density completion on our Antelope Extension acreage and is an industry record even though it is only a 4 300-foot lateral.
Going forward we will continue to develop this area at a moderate pace as we build out the infrastructure that will allow us to lower long-term operating costs.
We're encouraged by these 2015 accomplishments in the Rockies and Bakken.
And while the activity level will remain low in 2016 our focus on operational and well performance improvements will continue.
We expect to see additional cost efficiencies and well productivity advancements through completions and targeting refinements.
We plan to complete approximately 35 wells in the Rockies in 2016.
As we continue progressing technically and reducing costs we expect the premium location count to grow significantly.
Finally a quick update on our Conwy project in the East Irish Sea; all work for startup has been completed by EOG and we are working with the platform operator to reach final acceptance which we believe is imminent.
We expect first production by the end of the quarter.
Here's Billy Helms to review our activity in the Permian Delaware Basin.
Thanks David.
Our Permian Delaware Basin team has made tremendous amount of progress last year.
Prior to 2015 we developed a successful winter program and had encouraging results with the Wolfcamp and Bone Springs intervals.
As we entered 2015 we laid out a specific plan to: one increase our technical knowledge to better understand the potential of these complex plays; two improve our operational execution and cost performance; and three expand the scope and impact of the basin to EOG.
Our efforts paid off.
Here's a recap of our progress.
First we made tremendous progress utilizing two techniques: precision targeting and high-density completions.
Our enhanced understanding of the regional stratigraphy of the basin helps us to delineate the most productive target intervals within each formation.
This technique requires a significant amount of technical data and data analysis expertise and coupled with our high-density completion technique generates solid improvements in well productivity as evidenced by our industry record-setting Wolfcamp well.
The Thor 21 #702H produced an average of 3 490 barrels of oil equivalent per day over its first 30 days of production.
After 120 days average production was an impressive 2 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Notably the well was completed with a shorter lateral yet still exceeded the longer lateral wells in absolute production.
In fact on average our 2015 Wolfcamp wells produced 40% more than the next best operator during the first three months of production as displayed on slide nine of our investor presentation.
Second we made significant progress generating sustainable cost reductions.
For example in the Wolfcamp oil window we reduced average drilling time 33% and lowered completed well cost 35% despite adding incremental cost to each well for high-density completions.
In addition we secured a long-term brackish water supply that as we move into 2016 is expected to save us $200 000 to $300 000 per well.
And finally we increased the net resource potential for the Delaware Basin by 1.0 billion barrels of oil equivalent and added 2 200 net locations essentially adding decades of drilling inventory.
This solidifies the position for the Delaware Basin as one of our high-return growth engines.
We also executed on another 8 000 net acre acquisition in the fourth quarter bringing total 2015 Delaware Basin acquisitions to 34 000 net acres.
This adds to our sweet spot acreage with significant upside potential through multiple stack targets.
Thanks to the well productivity improvements and cost reductions achieved in 2015 the Delaware Basin delivers returns that compete for capital alongside the Eagle Ford.
A large portion of the Delaware Basin is already considered premium.
And with our continued advancements we expect to dramatically increase our inventory of premium locations in the next few years.
For 2016 we are continuing the momentum.
The Delaware Basin will again be EOG's second most active basin next to the Eagle Ford.
We plan to complete the same number of wells as we did in 2015 about 75 and we'll focus primarily on the Wolfcamp.
Drilling the Wolfcamp generates excellent returns while allowing us to collect data on the shallower targets at the same time.
I'll now address reserve replacement and refining cost.
All in proved reserves decreased 15% in 2015 driven primarily by price-related revisions.
Excluding revisions due to commodity price changes we replaced 192% of our 2015 production at a low finding cost of $11.91 per BOE.
For the 28th consecutive year DeGolyer and MacNaughton performed an independent engineering analysis of our reserves and their estimate was within 5% of our internal estimate.
Their analysis covered about 86% of our proved reserves this year.
Please see the schedules accompanying this earnings press release for the calculation of reserve replacement and finding cost.
I'll now turn it over to Tim Driggers to discuss financials and capital structure.
Thanks Billy.
I'll begin with a few comments about our capital spending last year and in the fourth quarter.
Capitalized interest for the quarter was $8.9 million.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 total expiration and development expenditures were $737 million including facilities of $116 million and excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $35 million.
There were $105 million of acquisitions during the quarter.
For the full year 2015 capitalized interest was $41.8 million.
Total exploration and development expenditures were $4.4 billion including facilities of $765 million and excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligations.
In addition expenditures for gathering systems processing plants and other property plant and equipment were $288 million.
For the full year capital expenditures excluding acquisitions and asset retirement obligations were $4.7 billion $200 million below the low end of our original 2015 guidance.
Total cash flow from operations was $3.6 billion.
In addition proceeds from asset sales were $193 million.
Total acquisitions for the year were $481 million.
At year end total debt outstanding was $6.7 billion for a debt to total capitalization ratio of 34%.
Taking into account $719 million of cash on hand at year end net debt to total capital was 31%.
In the fourth quarter of 2015 total impairments were $168 million.
$94 million of these impairments were the result of significant declines in commodity prices during the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2015 total impairments were $6.6 billion.
$6.3 billion of these impairments were the results of declines in commodity prices and were related to legacy natural gas assets and marginal liquids plays.
The remaining impairments for both the fourth quarter and full year 2015 were ongoing lease and producing property impairments.
The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter was 29% and the deferred tax ratio was 92%.
Yesterday we included a guidance table with our earnings press release for the first quarter and full-year 2016.
Our 2016 CapEx estimate is $2.4 billion to $2.6 billion excluding acquisitions.
The exploration and development portion excluding facilities will account for almost 80% of the total CapEx budget.
Our 2016 CapEx estimate represents a 47% decrease from 2015 and is 70% less than 2014 capital expenditures demonstrating our commitment to capital discipline.
The budget for exploration and development facilities and gathering processing and other accounts for approximately 20% of the total CapEx budget for 2016.
We plan to concentrate our infrastructure spending in the Eagle Ford and Delaware Basin to support our drilling programs in those areas and enhance operating efficiency.
In terms of hedges for natural gas we have approximately 60 000 MMBtu per day hedged at $2.49 per MMBtu for March 1 through August 1 2016.
We currently have no hedges in place for oil.
Now I'll turn it back over to Bill.
Thanks Tim.
Now for a few comments on the macro during the fourth quarter of 2014 EOG was early to respond to the price signals in the market.
We cut CapEx scaled back activity and focused on returns instead of growing oil into an oversupplied market.
As we start 2016 we are encouraged by the discipline operators are demonstrating around the world.
This disciplined capital reduction is rapidly slowing U.S.
oil drilling and reducing significant amounts of future supply worldwide.
We believe the pace of market correction is increasing in 2016.
Now in summary I will leave you with a few important points.
First 2015 was a record year for EOG in terms of improving the company.
We had record well and operating cost reductions and a record year in improving well productivity.
We also had our best year ever in adding new high-quality deep drilling inventory.
Second we are rapidly resetting the company to be successful in a lower commodity price environment.
We are focused on improving returns and lowering operating cost instead of growing oil at the bottom of the market.
Third our shift to premium drilling this year should yield strong capital returns in a low commodity price environment.
Premium wells generate after-tax rates of return of 30% or better at $40 oil and over 100% after-tax rates return at $60 oil.
Therefore EOG is uniquely positioned for tremendous performance as oil prices improve.
Fourth we do not view premium drilling mode as a temporary bridge to get through low oil prices.
With over 2 billion barrels of oil equivalent a premium net resource potential and 12 years of premium inventory this is a permanent shift in the quality of EOG's future wells.
We believe the company will continue to grow the size and quality of premium inventory for years to come.
Fifth we remain long-term focused.
We continue to do the things that will add significant upside to the future of the company like investments in exploration secondary recovery and other new technologies.
Our focus is creating long-term shareholder value through sustainable productivity advancements.
And finally our goal has always been to be the low-cost U.S.
horizontal oil producer.
As we look to the future that's not enough.
Our goal is now squarely set on being one of the lowest-cost producers in the competitive global oil market and we are well on our way to reaching that goal.
Thanks for listening now we'll go to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
My first question is your premium locations appear higher than most peers' core or comparable locations.
Can you discuss what you think differentiates EOG's premium locations and what's proprietary and represents a barrier for peers to achieve similar results? And also if I could you mentioned upside at locations.
Any color on what percentage of the average locations have already been reviewed? Evan certainly we believe moving into premium drilling mode is a step change in the future of the company.
It's a substantial increase as we said.
Over the last two years it's about a 95% increase in the quality of the wells we're going to drill and a 50% uplift for this year.
So we're moving more rapidly than what maybe we might have even thought a few years ago.
What's driving that is the quality of the rock.
The quality of the rock is the most important factor in the productivity of the well.
So we made extremely strong technical advancements in identifying the best rock in the best plays over the years and certainly we believe we've captured the premier acreage in the premier plays in the U.S.
And then also in each one of those plays we've developed petrophysical techniques seismic techniques.
We've used a lot of core data and our combined over 10 years' experience in these horizontal plays to identify the best target zones in each one of the plays.
And so that is the main driver.
It's the rock quality capturing it first and then being able to take all the technical knowledge and tools that we've developed over the years and to in our experience to be able to pick out the best targets.
And then we've developed proprietary techniques to not only identify but to place the laterals in those targets and to keep the lateral in those targets for a long portion of the well.
So our goal is to keep those targets those laterals in the best rock about 95% or better on the well.
And so that's really the main driver.
We think that's a very unique very proprietary ability of EOG and will be very difficult to duplicate in the future.
And a follow-up if I may.
You discussed the 55% jump in expected performance per foot in 2016.
But since your DUCs are completed on largely a FIFO basis I presume that many of the wells you complete this year are 2015 vintage.
So my question is is that right? And would that then mean there's another step change in performance for 2017 as you complete and turn more of those newly identified premium locations all other things being equal? Evan a large percentage of our wells that we're going to complete in the first half of the year are carryover DUCs from 2015.
The majority of those wells are very beneficial to what we've been learning about targeting and identifying the rock.
So those will be fantastic wells and we'll get extremely strong returns on those.
But the learning curve is not over.
We continue to refine our knowledge and our ability to execute.
And so we see this as really just the beginning of a continuing we believe sustainable productivity increase in our drilling going forward.
As we said in the opening we've identified 3 200 locations and over 2 billion barrels of oil equivalent so far that's premium and we expect that to grow over time in numbers and quality.
So this is really a big game-changer for the company.
We think it's very proprietary and so we think it's going to give us an extremely competitive edge going forward.
So we believe as oil prices improve we will be able to rapidly be able to generate triple-digit rates of return going forward.
So this is a very meaningful step for the company.
I appreciate that.
Next will be Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Doug.
Bill the production range for the year is obviously pretty wide.
I guess what I'm trying understand is there's a fairly large proportion of DUCs I'm guessing.
I would have thought that would have given greater certainty to the outcome so I'm just wondering if you can help us reconcile the – are you being relatively conservative with the range that you're giving us or is it something else? And I've got a follow-up please.
Doug I'm going to ask Gary Thomas to give you some color on that.
Doug I didn't get completely your question here.
So what I'm getting at is I would have thought if you're completing wells you've already drilled but haven't completed it would have given greater certainty to the outcome and the production outlook for the year.
But the range for the year is still very very wide.
I'm just trying to reconcile those two things.
Okay.
On the DUCs yes as Bill mentioned we're going to be completing quite a number about 70 of our DUCs.
We're going to be completing additional DUCs than that.
We're going to be completing at least 100 first quarter wells that we drill as DUCs.
And those DUCs are all premium.
They generate a 30% rate of return at $40 oil.
And our guidance is very similar to what we've had in previous years.
We're saying anywhere from 260 000 to 280 000 barrels of oil per day for 2016.
That pretty well duplicates what we had in 2015.
Does that answer your question? Yes well I guess I was talking about BOE guidance which is still quite wide but I'll take it offline with Cedric [Burgher].
My follow-up is really more balance sheet related.
So I think in the past though in a more robust oil price environment you talked about a 30% ceiling on your net debt-to-cap.
You're slightly above that right now.
I'm just wondering how you're thinking about that.
And this is not in any way disparaging to the industry but a lot of very strong companies with very strong balance sheets have taken advantage of their relative outperformance by obviously issuing equity.
I'm just curious as to how you feel about the uncertainty of the outlook and how you might balance the priorities to reinforce the strength of your balance sheet given how well your stock has done relative to the market? Doug first of all EOG has no current plans to issue equity at this time.
Certainly we entered the year we came into the downturn with a strong balance sheet and we've been disciplined throughout the process.
And so when we look as we go forward for this year we have tremendous flexibility to make further adjustments to capital throughout the year.
We do anticipate selling non-core properties as we consistently do every year.
We're pretty far along in that process.
We have what we believe are very high-quality strong buyers for properties.
And this could be – this is not a small amount of money; it's very significant.
So we're quite confident in that process.
And so our goal going forward is to maintain a strong balance sheet.
And fortunately our balance sheet right now is one of the strongest in the peer group.
So that's certainly a focus for us.
It's certainly been a hallmark.
A strong balance sheet has been a hallmark for EOG for years and we've not taken our sight off that.
And we're going to be committed to maintaining a good strong balance sheet going forward.
The next question is from Arun Jayaram with JPMorgan.
Bill I was wondering if you could elaborate a little bit more on the premium drilling inventory.
You guys cited I believe 3 200 premium locations and 2 billion barrels I believe of gross recovery.
That would equate to an EUR of 625 MBoe if you just average that out.
About half of that premium inventory is in the Eagle Ford.
So I guess my question is your overall Eagle Ford guidance is for 450 MBoe recovery and that's after royalties.
So I was wondering if you could just maybe comment on the differences in the premium inventory in the Eagle Ford relative to that 450 MBoe average? The first thing the 2 billion barrels is net.
That's net? Okay.
Yes that's net.
So the gross EUR per well would be quite bigger than what you stated.
And let me let David Trice comment a little bit more on the details on the Eagle Ford and what we expect there going forward.
Arun in the Eagle Ford like we stated in our remarks we've done a lot of work there.
Obviously over the years we've collected a tremendous amount of data.
Even this last year in 2015 we drilled quite a few pilot holes where we actually drilled down through the Eagle Ford and collected a lot of data.
And so what that allowed us to see was that we have a lot of additional upside there as far as working on the targeting.
Like I had mentioned we're drilling 20-foot target intervals and doing multiple targets within the lower Eagle Ford.
We're seeing very good results with that and we're quite encouraged.
So I think really going forward we see a real opportunity to continue to add premium locations.
We stated in our slides that we've got approximately 1 500 premium locations in the Eagle Ford but we certainly see that as a starting point as far as being able to continue to add premium locations.
Let me just add to answer your question specifically on the 450 net MBoe per well in the Eagle Ford.
That is for an average Eagle Ford well and that is not a premium well.
Premium wells would be quite a bit better than that.
And then that number is stale.
So we haven't updated that 450 net MBoe per well for several years and we've made quite a bit of advancements since then in the high-density frac technology and now we're making advancements in targeting also.
So those numbers it takes a little bit of time to get confirmation on what the new EUR number is.
So when you make these advancements you want to make sure you get at least a year of production and then you can adjust them up accordingly.
Thank you Bill.
And my follow-up Bill in some cases you now stratified the inventory a little bit between premium and other locations.
You mentioned in your prepared remarks about EOG potentially being open to upgrading or trading inventory and I was wondering if you could maybe elaborate on that for the non-premium inventory.
The non-premium inventory will have two avenues.
The first avenue will be that we believe the majority of it will be converted to premium over time as we continue to learn how to target the rock more correctly and we continue to be able to be better at picking out the high-quality rock in the target zone.
So it's an ongoing process in every one of these plays and we expect continued improvement.
If it doesn't make it to the premium inventory level and it never gets in our CapEx then certainly it has a lot of value.
All this non-premium inventory that we have if you compared it to the rest of the industry it would be Tier 1 inventory.
It's very high quality.
So that gives us a chance to market this as we go forward down the road through property sales as we normally do in our asset upgrading process.
Hello? And we'll go next to Brian Singer.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning.
Bill in your opening comments you mentioned a focus more specific focus of EOG being a competitive low-cost producer in the global market not just U.S.
shale.
Before we run with this too far do you still expect to do this predominantly through U.S.
shale or is this any signal you're willing to pursue international shale or global non-shale investment opportunities to a greater degree? And is it still your view that you can do this from the premium focus areas that you talked to and then that you have in the Delaware Basin Eagle Ford and Bakken? Brian we have no intention of expanding international efforts so we are going to be very much U.S.
driven.
We see tremendous opportunity in the U.S.
And so this whole direction towards being not only the low-cost producer in the U.S.
horizontal we think we're clearly there.
And our sight now is really set on being one of the lowest-cost producers in the world market.
And we believe that we can accomplish this with our very high-quality assets that we currently have and continuing to improve them and continuing to come up with new technology as we go forward.
And we also believe very strongly that we can continue to grow that quality asset much faster than we're drilling it.
And that would be through converting existing inventory in the premium and also through new plays.
So we see tremendous opportunity the U.S.
and we're going to stay focused there.
And we're quite confident that we can continue to lower our operating cost lower our well cost and improve well productivity to become more than competitive in the world.
Got it thanks.
And then on the follow-up side I've got two little questions.
One you highlighted exploration here and I wondered if you could just give an update on whether you expect to bring any meaningful projects to the finish line and ultimately announce that in 2016 or whether the reduced budget is prohibitive in that regard.
And then on the asset sale front have you worked any production impact from potential asset sales into the guidance that you've provided? For the latter part of your question we've not put any asset sales volumes into the production guidance.
And so the first part of it – what was the first part of the question? Exploration.
Yes exploration.
We did not want to take any short-term cuts that might affect the long-term benefit of the company this year.
So we left in a considerable amount of money in the current budget for exploration both in acreage buying acreage on emerging plays.
And we'll also have several tests of new plays continuing this year.
So we'll see how all those go.
We're quite hopeful and quite optimistic that we have maybe some plays that will be premium plays.
We won't move them forward unless they would be premium of course but we're quite optimistic on the exploration front.
And your next question is from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
My first question is what commodity price assumptions are embedded in your 2016 capital plan? Pearce we use the strip and we used the strip that was in the first part of January.
And so we haven't got any – we don't really put in a lot of upside to the current prices.
I think it was based on prices around $40 was the current strip we used.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
And then my follow-up this is a hard question to ask so just bear with me but it follows up on Brian Singer's question.
On the exploration front for the past number of years you guys have worked on various plays.
And obviously you've had tremendous success with the Eagle Ford as an example.
But now those plays weren't really – some of those plays weren't economic or couldn't compete with your really core plays back when oil was $80 to $100.
And now obviously oil is a lot lower.
And I know service costs have come down.
But when you look at those plays and you also look at what you mentioned in the press release about this premium inventory and how much success you're having at improving your existing inventory would it make sense instead of spending the money on exploration on trying to discover new plays to actually use that money to buy existing acreage around the core around plays whether it be the Eagle Ford the Permian the Bakken SCOOP/STACK or whatnot and then take your core competency and expertise which is clearly in making something better? Would it be a better use of the capital and generate a higher return for shareholders? Pearce let me let Billy Helms comment on that.
We're very focused both on tactical acquisitions.
I'll let him give you some color on that.
Good morning Pearce.
What we were able to accomplish last year is a good example of that.
We focus in first – the first effort is understanding where the premium acreage is that Bill described earlier.
It gets down to basically understanding the rock.
And we have to understand where that rock exists.
And then those pieces that are added to our portfolio that compete for capital in our existing portfolio certainly will add to that as we exhibited last year in our Delaware Basin acquisitions.
And we'll continue that effort as we go into the next year.
That's just part of our ongoing philosophy of how we continue to grow the company.
And we balance that off with as you know we also manage to sell off properties every year.
And so we balance those two with the overall capital discipline we have in the company.
So that's always been part of our strategy and will continue to be.
And the next call is from Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Paul.
I was wondering if your drilling contracts are committing you to more drilling than you would otherwise do all things being equal.
It just feels as if you're somewhat dependent now on the oil price recovering.
But more importantly I was wondering whether if you didn't have those locked-in drilling contracts you would actually be completing more wells and drilling less.
Thanks.
Paul we did enter the year with 13 rigs under contract.
I think the average this year will be 11 rigs.
We looked very hard at trying to buy out those contracts to reduce that since we do have so many DUCs in place.
But when we ran the numbers it just didn't make economic sense.
Those rigs are the best quality rigs in the business.
The efficiency is tremendous and it just didn't make economic sense to buy those out.
And so we're really focused on going forward.
We didn't want to grow oil obviously this year in the low part of the cycle and so we didn't want to accelerate the DUCs.
And so I'm going to let Gary Thomas give you a little bit more detail on the rig situation and our DUC situation.
Yes Paul this is Gary.
And if we didn't have these rigs under contract we would certainly be completing more of our DUCs with them all being premium wells but we're just honoring those contracts.
And as Bill said yes we're going to average – we were at 27 rigs under contract in 2015.
It's 11 rigs this year and we average 5.5 rigs next year.
So yes in 2017 we'll be able to certainly accelerate the completion of our DUCs which will be very beneficial to us.
And the follow-up would just be I assume at these prices CapEx would be lower but for the contracts.
That's right yes.
And you would be simply neither completing nor drilling as much if it wasn't for the fact that you're committed and it would be too expensive to buy the contracts out.
That's correct.
Yes sir.
Thank you that clarifies it.
That's more flexibility.
Got it understood.
Thank you.
Next is Biju Perincheril with Susquehanna Brokers.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
Bill I had a question about the high-density completions.
It almost sounds like when I look at it you're taking the unconventional rust warren (52:33) and transforming it into something close to a conventional rust warren (52:36) near the wellbore.
And I don't expect it's a fair way to characterize it but I guess my question is do you think there are any implications for the longer-term shape of the decline curve of these new completions? I'm thinking several years out.
I would like to hear your take on it.
Thanks.
The high-density completions what they do you described it fairly accurately is that they contact enormous amounts of surface area of the rock and they hit it very very very close to the well bore.
So obviously the better the rock and the more that you connect to the well bore especially close to the well bore has the tremendous effect on the uplift of wells.
And I'm going to let Billy Helms comment on the long-term effect of this uplift.
Biju you did characterize it fairly accurately.
I think the one way to think about is certainly the more rocky contact in the reservoir basically yes you're going to increase the initial potential of that well.
But by contacting more of that rock you're also increasing the ultimate recovery from every well.
So you will see good initial production rates.
But your decline we're seeing the benefit of declines flattening with more production from these high-density completions.
So the overall effect has been quite uplifting.
So when we compare the shape of the decline curve in the longer term do you think it will remain fairly similar? So when we look at the terminal rates would you expect a higher decline for the higher-density completions or no? No no.
Actually we're not seeing that at all.
We're seeing longer term the wells will produce longer and the initial decline is little bit less steep than the older completions are just simply because you're connecting a lot more rock to the well bore.
Perfect thanks.
Appreciate it.
Our next question is from David Tameron with Wells Fargo Securities.
Hi good morning.
Bill how do you think about a ramp as you go into – assuming we get some upward pressure on prices a year from now how quickly can you ramp? I know you talked about prior – the availability of people maybe the services industry can't respond as fast.
Can you just walk us through how you would see a scenario if oil goes back to $55 tomorrow like how does that play out for EOG? David we're set up tremendously well.
Of course we're going to have a very large very high-quality DUC inventory.
We have rigs in place and we have a substantial amount of frac spreads running.
We delayed the work schedule on some of the frac spreads to maybe five days a week instead of seven days a week type scenarios so that we could keep a number of frac spreads in place that would be easy to accelerate.
When the oil prices begin to recover we're going to be disciplined going forward.
We don't – obviously don't want to be fooled again like the industry was fooled last year by a little bit of an uptick in oil price and it is not sustainable.
So we're going to be disciplined and cautious going forward on ramping up capital until we're very much convinced that this is not a short-term uptick in the price and that the market is more in balance and that the price is more sustainable.
But we think obviously EOG is in a fantastic shape to generate extremely strong – we're talking about triple-digit rates of return – as oil prices improve and we have ability to grow oil when the time comes.
Okay.
And then if I think about it I've asked a couple others the same question.
But if I think about – if you make the decision tomorrow to add rigs and obviously with the DUCs you can cover some of this gap.
But how long – you say tomorrow you say let's add a rig.
How long does it take before we see that production given the laterals and pads and everything else? Is that a six month before you start to see that production in the numbers? David I'm going to ask Gary Thomas to give some color on that.
David the benefit to EOG is having these.
By end of year we'll have 230 of these DUCs to complete.
Yes.
And with having those and then having the number of frac fleets that we have currently that we could ramp up as Bill was saying besides being able to add when you just start with the completion and bringing on you can see a pretty substantial increase in volumes within three to four months.
Now when you would just be starting grassroots with drilling rigs it would be almost twice that long like you're mentioning the six months.
It would be about half that time.
Okay.
No that's helpful.
Thanks for all the color.
Our next question is from Mike Scialla with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Maybe a follow-up to David's question it sounded like you're not inclined to want to go back to growth mode unless you see a significant price increase.
But looking at that inventory of 3 200 premium locations that generate a 30%-plus IRR with $40 oil if it looks like that's all that we're going to get out of a recovery would you go back to a growth mode if that were the case? I think Mike that would give – $40 oil would give us obviously a bit more cash flow but we would be certainly wanting to stay balanced discretionary cash flow to CapEx.
So that's really going to control the amount of growth that we have and along with making sure that the oil price is really sustainable.
So we can generate the returns but the growth of the company will be regulated by obviously the number of wells we complete and the continued improvement we have but it would be regulated by the cash flow of the company.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then can you talk about in terms of that premium count you said Bill that you could grow that over time.
You alluded to how you would do that with better targeting.
But I wanted to see where you anticipate if you can say where most of that will come from.
Is it downspacing in the Eagle Ford? Is it primarily from the Permian or somewhere else? Mike it will be from really multiple sources.
We're learning in every one of the plays that we're in and it's really just being able to identify those target windows within those good plays and then executing on those.
So we were still working on downspacing in every one of the plays.
So it will come from multiple plays improving the inventory there to premium and then it will come from new plays too.
We have quite a bit of confidence that through our learning process on existing plays that we can identify very high-quality rock in emerging plays and so we're actively engaged in buying acreage and testing wells in those too.
So it will come from a multiple source.
Historically even though the uptick when we had $90 – $95 oil and we were growing very quickly and drilling a lot of wells we were able to add twice as many wells each year than what we actually drilled.
And so we're very confident that we can continue that kind of multiple on the premium going forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thank you.
And the next question is from Subash Chandra with Guggenheim.
Good morning.
Are we looking at a permanent shift to better wells but fewer wells and how exacting your premium process is and how reliant it is on massive data analysis? And then I have a follow-up.
Thanks.
Certainly when you're drilling twice as good a well you don't have to drill nearly as many of them.
And so that certainly helps keep your CapEx down and you're able to have a lot more efficiency there.
So as we go forward the learning process will be incremental in each one of these plays and it's just an ongoing theme.
We learn this and then we try it.
And as we get good positive results we're able to apply that to additional wells.
And then the sustainable technology gains that we have in the company have been very very continuous and very steady over the whole life of our involvement in horizontal drilling.
It's over 10 years of experience combined knowledge and we have quite an innovative culture in the company.
And we expect that to continue to improve the wells as we go forward.
And the follow-up is and no question you're light years ahead in many ways.
When we think about the additional inventory in that it's dependent on data that where you have more wells is likely where we'll see more inventory over time? And so the other side of that is how applicable is this to new exploration concepts? Correctly when we have an ongoing drilling program and we're collecting data all the time in an existing play that's certainly how you make advances.
But we also are able to take that learning experience and apply it to new plays.
So the high-density frac techniques the kinds of rocks that would respond to high-density techniques and then the petrophysical properties of rocks in emerging plays and then the core work where we do an extensive amount of very detailed core work and we integrate all this data along with 3-D seismic.
And so all that goes into bear on defining new plays with high-quality rock.
And so it's a learning process that spills over and it really helps us keep the momentum and to keep adding premium inventory as we go forward.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Thomas at this time I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
EOG has got a strong track record of game-changing events that have made the company successful over time.
Our shift to premium drilling mode this year with an estimated 50% year-over-year increase in well productivity is another step-change to the company's performance.
Premium drilling allows EOG to generate solid capital returns at $40 oil and quite frankly spectacular returns if oil prices recover.
With our focus on improving returns instead of production growth during this down cycle EOG is now positioned for tremendous performance as prices improve.
We believe the best times for the company are ahead of us.
So thank you for listening and thank you for your support.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation.