Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
And welcome to the first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Thursday April 26 2012.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Marty McKenna.
Go ahead sir.
Thanks Jo.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's First Quarter 2012 Results.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; and Fred Tuomi our EVP of Property Management.
David Santee our EVP of Property Operations; and Mark Parrell our CFO are also here with us for the Q&amp;A.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law.
These forward-looking statements are certain to economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn the call over to David.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everybody.
We appreciate you taking the time to join us today for our first quarter call.
Clearly the strength and operating fundamentals that the multifamily space has enjoyed the last 6 quarters or so has certainly carried over into the first quarter 2012 and should continue for the balance of the year.
And those fundamentals drove our first quarter results which came in very much in line with our expectations.
Our same-store revenue growth in the quarter was 5.5% and same-store NOI growth was a very strong 7.8%.
Our new lease rates are pretty much where we thought they'd be and renewal rates continue to trend in the sixes just as we had expected.
So we feel very good about where we sit today and to help you understand how we're currently positioned moving in to our primary leasing season I'm going to hand the call over to Fred and he'll share a bit about the current trends we're seeing across our markets.
Thank you David.
Let me do this talk about some of our key markets but before I do that I just want to give you a quick update on our key drivers of our revenue.
And for the first quarter the drivers of our revenue support our full year same-store revenue growth around the midpoint of our guidance that we gave back in January.
So let me give you a quick update on each of those 4 drivers.
First is turnover.
And the recent turnover is up.
It’s up 100 basis points the first quarter of this year versus last year.
However if you look within the quarter January and February did have a pretty good spike in move outs compared to the same months last year.
But then March came right back in line with 2011 and as did April after the end of the quarter.
So look at where we are in the market.
Kind of as expected the markets with the strongest rent growth have been having some price resistance on renewals.
And it's natural when you think about it residents who traded up in quality and in rent levels during the recession will eventually be priced out at some point and that's happening in some of our high-growth markets.
Home buying is up in a few areas but not by much and still well below historic norms.
Home buying is really not a problem and continues to be in check.
That takes us to occupancy.
And while occupancy did match the first quarter of last year at 94 9 it was below kind of what we wanted for the first quarter below our budgets below our expectations.
And the occupancy in our key markets actually declined throughout the quarter as we held on to our higher rates.
And we believe that making a trade right now in our strong markets trading some occupancy or holding those higher rates is actually a good strategy at this point in the cycle.
Now as we enter the leasing season we fully expect and begin to see a recapture of that occupancy at those higher rates that we held onto as we enter the leasing season.
And let me make a point here that new residents still showed no problem at accepting and achieving these new rates.
So we are seeing some turnover based on the prices of the stack but not on new leases coming in.
So that takes us to the base rents.
And as David mentioned base rents running just as we expected to Q1 averaging about 6.5% over 2011 levels during the quarter.
And then finally renewals.
Renewals remain very strong.
We averaged 6.6% increases for the quarter and in the month of April we actually closed out 6.9% real increases for the quarter.
Now let's take a quick look in the sampling of some of our markets.
First is Boston Massachusetts.
Boston has been on a great run as you know.
After several quarters of double-digit rent growth we did experience price resistance during the first quarter.
And therefore turnover did move up in this market.
Occupancy is now recovering very quickly at rents 10% or more above last year.
In town in Cambridge some markets are doing great and definitely Quincy not quite strong as we're having some a little more of turnover and some home buying down in Quincy.
New York.
Well New York the financial sector is still holding very strong very steady.
And the new trend of people coming in from tech new media and entertainment is continuing.
We continue to see folks from those industries moving into our markets into our properties there especially in the markets of Upper West Side and Chelsea.
Turnover did spike in New York also being a high-growth market.
January and February especially on the loss of some short-term corporate leases and in some anecdotal reports of people trading down and moving into other neighborhoods from -- as the rents recover back to peak periods.
Current traffic and leasing trends made in the last few weeks are very strong and occupancy is now rebuilding quickly at rents 5% to 6% above last year.
And renewals through the whole quarter remaining stable in the mid-6% increase range from New York.
Moving down to D.C.
We like everyone else expect D.C.
to experience the slowdown throughout this year.
Government cutbacks and hiring freezes and salary freezes and per diem freezes are in place getting to show up and then contractor uncertainty because of this is beginning to take hold.
As we go later in the year this is going to match up with the delivery of the 8 000 units this year and it's going to create a little more payment in the backside of this year.
Renewals remain strong right now however at 6%.
And base rent growth still growing but the gap over last year is narrowing to the 3% to 4% range and this will continue as we come up to a tougher comp period from last year.
So jumping across the country over to Seattle.
Seattle has been a great market.
But when we talk about Seattle now we're going to have to talk about it in terms of submarkets.
Because I don't know if you know or not but our Seattle market as reported includes 2 347 units from Tacoma.
And Tacoma is not really the same market as Seattle.
It's pretty much a military town.
And the military rotations out of Fort Lewis have been dramatic and ongoing and has been a drag on our results.
So without Tacoma our 6.1% revenue growth in Q1 for Seattle is actually a 7.1% revenue growth.
And within that CBD in the downtown and East Side are very strong CBD posted a 6.6 east side a 8.7 and the big tech firms are all continuing to hire.
New hiring is strong interims hiring is strong and they're doing great.
So currently our base rents are up 10% year-over-year and renewals are in the 8-plus percent range in these submarkets.
Also in Seattle Snohomish up North and the King County South are not quite as strong and still doing fine.
So we expect Seattle to have a good run here but to eventually slow throughout the year as the development pipeline begins to deliver the 3 000 units this year and I guess looking forward to 2013 and '14 there is still that pipeline of about 6 000 more units coming in mostly downtown and the near downtown submarkets.
Going down to San Francisco.
San Francisco as you know has been a very hot market for some quite time now several quarters very strong double-digit rent growth.
So it shouldn't be a surprise that that's what seeing the most push back on pricing.
And the results has been a pretty big increase in turnover during Q1.
30% of our first quarter move outs gave us the recent increase to expenses or my rent's just too damn high.
So like Boston we believe in this market we have confidence that the new lease potential is there.
So we're holding rates in San Francisco at the expense of Q1 occupancy.
So we're now filling April and May traffic at rates of 11% and 12% above last year and renewal increases are steady at 10.5% for April.
Down to Southern California.
Los Angeles is still definitely in recovery mode.
It's continuing on but still a little bit lumpy.
L.A.
is still constrained by its local economic problems especially in the government sector.
However job growth has been revised up pretty dramatically for 2012 but we just haven't seen it yet.
Q1 was flatter down as job growth has mostly back ended in the second half 2012.
Base rents are growing steady in the 5% to 6% range but we are seeing some persistent price sensitivity keeping occupancies below 95% by touch [ph] so far this year.
April renewals in L.A.
5.5%.
And that takes us down to San Diego and take us along with others we'd have to say San Diego remains a disappointment.
It's in positive territory it's steady but at low levels of growth.
Base rents are 1.5% to 2% above last year.
April renewals are up 4.7% and occupancy just continues to lag on low demand based on military lease breaks and a little bit of an uptick in home buying in San Diego.
So overall as David said things are kind of as we expected at this point.
The leasing season will really make the year.
So we look forward to reporting you the results of leasing season on our second quarter call come July.
Alright thanks Fred.
So let me turn now -- about transactions and just like last year our first quarter acquisition activity was minimal and well below our full year guidance of $1.25 billion might suggest.
However also like last year we do expect the activity to increase as the year progresses and we've kept our full year acquisition expectations unchanged for the present time.
We did acquire 3 assets in the quarter totaling 544 units for $159 million at a weighted average cap rate of 4.4%.
We bought 102 units in Marina Del Rey California.
That built in 2003 and was acquired for $371 000 a door.
We also acquired 319 units in Redmond Washington built in 2009 and acquired for $299 000 a door.
This asset is in the heart of Redmond in very close proximity to our Red160 develop deal which should provide some operating synergies for those 2 assets.
And lastly in Redwood City California we acquired 123 units and an older asset on the Peninsula midway between San Francisco and San Jose and immediately adjacent to the Stanford medical facility.
It's a terrific value add deal that we acquired for $211 000 a door that we'll spend about $10 000 a door rehabbing.
We're very excited about that opportunity.
During the quarter we sold only 3 assets 2 in Portland Oregon and 1 near Princeton New Jersey totaling 1 522 units.
We sold those deals for $206 million averaging $136 000 a unit at a 6.2% cap rate and we're pleased to have realized a 12.6% unleveraged IRR inclusive of management cost in those transactions.
Now you'll no doubt notice that the spread between our acquisitions and dispositions in the first quarter was a whopping 180 basis points on that activity and I ask that you not read too much into that.
This book cap rate is probably a pretty good proxy for what we expect to sell at least in the first half of the year but the acquisition cap is on the low end.
In fact just last week we closed on a $230 million acquisition at a 5.3% cap rate and that averaged that spread down compressed that spread delta to 127 or so basis point.
So we still think this spread at 125 for the full year is the right estimate.
So also I'll add I tell you I know I sound like a broken record when I say this but there still is a great deal of capital chasing very few deals in the marketplace today.
As a result at least in our core markets cap rates remain in the 4% to 5% range where they've been for much of the last year.
And it really is quite simply a very competitive acquisition environment out there today.
So with the acquisition market intensely competitive we continue to look for new opportunities for our development business.
Last quarter we acquired 2 land parcels for future development.
One right on the Biscayne Bay in Miami Florida where we'll build 390 units for $97 million and we expect to achieve a mid-6% yield on current rents on that transaction.
And we bought a land parcel in the South Lake Union neighborhood of Seattle where we'll build 283 units for $66 million and expected to achieve a low to mid-6% yield on current rents of that transaction.
So for the full year we currently expect to be in the position to start 8 projects totaling 1 430 units and totaling $630 million of total development cost.
Now you may note this is down about $120 million from expectations at the beginning of the year because we've decided to first see if we can sell one asset that we are contemplating doing some work on that's actually an expansion of an existing property we own on the intercoastal in South Florida where we're recently able to increase the density of that site were going to look at disposing of that first.
So the sites for our 2012 starts are all currently on our balance sheet.
We have 2 in New York City 1 in South Florida 2 in Seattle and 1 each in Southern California and the District of Columbia and current underwriting on those opportunities suggest the yield on cost in the low 6s on current rates.
So before we open the call to questions I what to say a few words about the Archstone situation which I know a lot of the people have questions about.
But you must bear in mind that I'm extremely limited as to what I can actually say.
But what I can say is that we remain interested in working with all of the parties that have an interest in Archstone to see if there is not some way we can create a win-win situation for everyone.
I'll tell you that doing that is not an easy task because there are a lot of parties involved and that many of those parties have different agendas and we're trying to get everybody squared away.
But to give us more time to see what we can get done we recently extended and this being for the second time the period under which we have an exclusive right to cause the banks to sell the remaining 26.5% interest to us.
And any offer that we do make will need for at least $1.5 billion and that offer will again be subject to Lehman's right to match it.
And if they do we'll receive a break-up fee of $80 million.
Now we continue to think that much of the Archstone portfolio with hand and glove of ours make a lot of sense in our platform and we are going to try to make it work.
And so with that Jo will happily open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Dave Bragg with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to touch on the disposition environment for you.
Could you talk a little bit more about your expectations for the year including whether or not you're current marketing assets for sale and maybe expand on that as well as your perception of the appetite in this market for a portfolio sale? Well we're always actively selling deals Dave.
And we've got properties out in the marketplace in Orlando Jacksonville and Phoenix and most of the markets that you'd expect us to be disposing of assets.
The remains of what we think is a pretty good bid for those assets.
Fannie and Freddie continue to finance them.
And we don't see any reason why we'd be unable to meet a goal of $1.25 billion on the disposition side.
A lot of that will be a function of what kind of acquisition opportunities that we can find.
Because our acquisition business is really self-funded from the disposition side.
And our guys tell us that there could be interest in a large portfolio.
There are a lot of people out there with a lot of capital that would be very interested in putting a lot of it to work in a single transaction.
And if we wanted to do that I think we could and do so very successfully.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And now that you've accomplished a lot on the restructuring side.
As you look at some of the other markets that you might consider non-core can you talk about your priorities in terms of incremental exits when you think about Atlanta Orlando Phoenix maybe even Tacoma et cetera? Well I guess we're -- continue to sell assets in many of those markets.
As we continue to focus more on the higher density core markets.
But I'm not sure that they are necessarily priorities.
We'll continue to sell assets on a one-off basis across those -- some of those markets and continue to reduce our exposure there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on the outlook for the year.
I think that you have a track record over the last few years of coming in at the high end of your revenue growth expectations.
And you seem to be indicating that you're trending towards the midpoint.
Can you talk about what has changed or what you're seeing over the first 4 months of the year that causes you to be maybe less comfortable with that high-end? Yes.
This is Fred Tuomi.
As we mentioned the first quarter kind of points to all the indicators right smack dab in the middle of our guidance.
And the one area of our first quarter kind of held back a little bit.
That would be -- the turnover was up in some of our key markets in January and February.
And most of that turnover when we dissected it was these short-term corporate apartments that we had in there for late December January February in the key markets the big rent markets like Boston New York and lesser extent in Seattle and San Francisco.
So we had some of those high-paying premium units vacate during a slow period of the year so it's a little bit longer to refill them and that's why we carried a little more vacancy during the Q1 than we had hoped for or really planned on.
So first quarter was kind of -- the story was increased turnover due to some corporates especially short-terms some price resistance in our key markets leading to some lower occupancy.
Now if you extrapolate that forward like we said that thing kind of guides us right towards the middle around the middle of the range.
We'll know more come July because the leasing season is just really cranking up.
And the last couple of weeks and in fact this week very strong traffic very strong leasing momentum building in those key markets like Boston's coming back quickly San Francisco's coming back quickly Seattle Downtown and East Side very strong et cetera.
So our strategy is that we held rates we took that vacancy in Q1 and now we're going to refill the leasing season at higher rates.
So in a perfect world of -- if the stars align we could have good results.
But right now as I said before last quarter we expect our average growth over last year of our base rents to be in the 5.5% range.
If we get that you can just kind of do the math and that's what we're saying kind of around the midpoint.
But based on leasing season that kind of the makes the year.
So we'll know more here in just several weeks.
And our next question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question about Fred's comments about seeing more turnover in markets with the best rent growth.
I mean would you actually see the resident turnover right now as a sign of strength in those markets or is it really more so that you need to start holding back on renewals given a higher turnover? Yes.
That's the essence of our -- what I meant by our strategy right now.
We're happy right now to take that trade at a little more vacancy early in the year when there's not many transactions anyway.
And keep our rent roll growing keep our base rents up there and then just be waiting for the traffic to flow in the leasing season and fill up quickly at the higher rates versus tanking the rates filling up and then be stuck with those leases throughout the year.
So that shows confidence in the forward of the market in terms of demand will be there.
And as I said earlier the prices that we're at right now we're not having a lot of resistance from new people coming in.
Our rent to income ratio is still strong credit is still strong none of that has changed.
So there is an ample supply of people willing ready and able to pay the new leases.
But we are already pitting that point of resistance on some renewals.
And as I mentioned the corporate people as you top out the rents plus the corporate premium we're squeezing their margins.
So naturally they're going to look for some alternatives at some point.
So I would agree with you that things play out perfectly that's going to be actually a good thing and not a bad thing at this point in the cycle.
Different points in the cycle you may play a different strategy.
Research Division</strong> Right.
That makes sense.
I just had a question on your leasing and advertising costs.
I guess I look at your advertising cost for the last 2 years.
They've come down pretty dramatically as has the rest of your peers.
So I'm curious is that just renegotiation of rates or was print that big a piece of your advertising? And I guess thinking about it from another perspective if you're reducing your advertising budget is there a risk that you're not creating the same number of leads that you were before and it's having an impact on revenue? This is David Santee.
When you look back I think you have to go back about 4 years.
And prior to the downfall in 2008 I mean basically markets like New York and Boston were -- those are 2 big broker markets.
And then during the downturn the obligation to pay broker fees switched from the resident to the landlord and we increased those fees several million dollars.
So when you look at our advertising costs today you see that decline.
All of that decline is associated with less broker fees in Boston and New York.
All everything else -- I mean certainly we've done a great job of reducing print.
We continue to optimize our paid search and our other ILS's [ph] but really the entire savings is due to less broker fees than last year.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then one more quick question along those lines.
I guess how would you think about your sort of average customer acquisition cost in terms of advertising or however you allocate sort of the expenses to that category? Well I mean certainly the largest cost to acquire a new resident is the vacancy.
But as far as hard cost go when you have 50% turnover 50-plus percent turnover and we're in $100 a unit we run in the $200 to $250 range as far as all-in L&amp;A [ph] cost.
And our next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of different questions here.
First can you remind me how much of your unit base is in corporate apartments? Trying to figure out -- I didn't think it would have been that meaningful to have caused that much of an issue or the amount of commentary we've already had on this call.
Well when we look back we had roughly 700 corporate units.
I don't know that it's a matter of the sheer volume.
It's more about when they vacate.
So when corporates take units in the summer typically when our rents are at the peak.
And then in addition we are getting a premium on top of that which is typically 20% to 30% on top of peak rents for that year.
And then they move out in Q4 or the beginning of Q1 when rents are at the bottom of the cycle.
You're re-renting those apartments for sometimes 20% to 30% less when your average renter rents them at a 12-month lease.
So we just saw a lot of volatility.
We saw some spikes in some markets particularly Boston New York City.
And we constantly strive to kind of minimize our exposure to the corporate business because like we've just discussed it creates unneeded volatility and it really doesn't align with our goal of creating loyal customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Given your strategy here of letting the occupancy slip a little bit and rebuilding at a higher price.
To me that implicitly would suggest if the turnover maintains on a up year-over-year basis ultimately you're going to need higher traffic levels relative to last year.
Is that what you're betting on? Is that you're going to see more traffic flow into your units this year? This is David when we look at all aspects of our traffic everything for the quarter was up.
So applications were up.
Move ins were up 4-plus percent phone calls were up 20%.
Foot traffic was up.
The only thing that was down were e-leads and I attribute that to I think our industry or at least the larger players in our industry.
We continually play cat and mouse with Mr.
Craig from Craigslist as far as playing by his rules.
So we really suffered in Q1 as far as our ability to promote our properties through Craigslist as they change the rules.
But as far as all the indicators everything is up and I have no reason to think that that won't continue through the leasing season.
This is Fred.
One other point is yes we have that confidence at this point in the cycle also not only because of the traffic that as David mentioned but based on the demographics but don't forget about supply.
There's still very little supply in the system this year especially the first half of this year.
So again that gives us confidence that this leasing season is going to be pretty favorable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And David last question for me on Archstone.
Can you give us a sense of how much of senior management's time has been spent locked in rooms with bankers and lawyers? And how much of a -- I don't want to use the word distraction.
I guess that's probably not the right word.
But how much time has been committed over there? Less than you think.
A lot of people have worked a lot on this over the last 9 months or so to get us in a position to have made the original bid that we made back in the fourth quarter.
But since that time I'll tell you it's just been myself and Mark Parrell and Bruce Strohm our General Counsel.
They're just the guys that are really running the railroad day-to-day basis have not been distracted at all.
Research Division</strong> And do you see any real possibility at this point that you wind up with the whole thing or are you playing for a result realistically other than...
I can't comment on any of that.
And our next question is from the line of Swaroop Yalla with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch upon the guidance specifically.
You mentioned that -- I mean I think your guidance for G&amp;A is up by $2 million or so and also the ATM issuance was a little bit higher.
So just wondering the FFO number seems to be the same.
Are there any one-time items that aren't discussed in the guidance? No.
It's Mark Parrell.
I mean on the G&amp;A side it’s just an estimate change on some comp expense.
When we put our guidance together.
We do it earlier then done with our comp process.
So that's the reason for the change on G&amp;A.
The delay in disposition activity has been the offset so G&amp;A is certainly up.
And the addition of the shares to the fully diluted share count from the ATM issuance is also a reduction to our FFO number.
On a compensating side is we have less a dilution from transaction activity because we're going to be selling assets later in the year than we thought.
So before our assumption had been we more or less were selling $300 million of assets each quarter.
And now we'll sell we think about $300 million to $350 million in the totality of the first half of the year and that difference is the offset and that's why we're still really right at the midpoint.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And then David there were all these news headlines about housing finally hitting the bottom.
And you mentioned that home buying move out to home purchases were up slightly.
If you can just give us a little bit more color on that which markets are you specifically seeing that? And what are those numbers relative to? Okay.
Swaroop this is Fred Tuomi again.
I mentioned home purchasing did tick up a little bit but still well inside of historic norms and still not really an issue on most of our markets.
For the whole portfolio Q1 of last year home purchasing as a reason for move out was with 11.6 a very low number.
Q1 of this year its 12.6 so it's up 1 point.
So up directionally but still very very small.
The markets with the least home buying and actually a reduction continued reduction in home buying Seattle was down almost 1 point Denver is down Orange County is down San Francisco is down Boston is down.
Those that did show an uptick Maryland where it's housing is fairly pretty cheap and plentiful it went up 470 basis points.
Atlanta as you'd expect where housing continues to go down the tubes was up 380 basis points.
Phoenix we did see an uptick of 310 basis points.
San Diego as I mentioned earlier did tick up 240 basis points.
L.A.
we saw some home buying.
So showing some confidence there maybe that's a good thing it's up 200 basis points.
In South Florida with the continued clearing of the condos there and some of single-family I think that market has definitely bottomed out prices are recovering strongly there in South Florida as well Phoenix so that's why you see some people jumping in to buy there in South Florida.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly sorry if I missed this but what are the renewals being sent out for June and July? May and June I guess? Renewals as I said for the quarter averaged 6 6 April we closed out at a 6 9.
May we're quoting basically 9% and expect to achieve 7 or low 7s.
June we're quoting in the above 8 range and expect to achieve in the mid-to high 6s.
In July we're quoting an 8 as well.
[Technical Difficulty] And our next question is from Conor Fennerty with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Fred can you provide a little more color on L.A.
You mentioned obviously job growth got -- revised up a little last year or excuse me in 2012 but you also talked about price sensitivity.
Can you kind of bridge that disconnect there? Yes.
Well job growth was revised up.
We're saying now that we're going to get 50 000 jobs this year.
I mean that's the economist's prediction.
I hope that's true.
But so far Q1 actually the local economic reports showed a job loss in L.A.
So it's really bad -- that's what I meant when the job growth is expected to be back ended.
You're still seeing some losses from the local city county state government and some manufacturing and some defense areas there.
But entertainment is up slightly.
The port net-net imports exports is up about 1%.
And some of the defenses now retooling and selling to foreign governments et cetera et cetera.
So that's our -- the expectation is some good growth coming second half of the year.
And if you remember back the last couple of years L.A.
has kind of been fits and starts.
It'll start getting some traction and then pause and get some traction and then pause.
And now it's on the steady upward swing but I'd say the accelerator continues to go up and down.
So we push rents we get some good results and then it kind of stalls.
So we actually -- we had rents up about 7% there for several weeks and then demand kind of slowed occupancy dipped so we had to bring the rents back into the 5% range.
So it's still -- I have confidence in L.A.
I think it's going to be fine.
It's just not -- doesn't have that consistent strong steady power curve of a recovery like we've seen earlier in the cycle in markets like Boston San Francisco and New York.
Research Division</strong> And David you mentioned the seasonality of acquisitions.
But has Archstone impacted the pace of acquisition for the year either or is it just mainly the seasonality? Well I guess I'm not so sure.
It's sort of seasonal.
Research Division</strong> For available product? I mean it's just like there's just not a lot of supply not a lot of product and we sort of seen this for the past 3 or so years.
And generally the beginning of the year we've not seen much and it sort of picked up more towards the end of year.
But that's something that's happened over the last several years and I wouldn't say that's its seasonal would imply that it's been for an extended time period.
I think if you would look back at our acquisition activity over an extended time period it's been fairly ratable during the year.
But it's just been over the last few years or so that that has been a little early on and we begin to see more as the year goes on.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just lastly on land sales or land acquisitions -- excuse me.
You guys have been obviously active on the land front last kind of 8 quarters.
Any change there in terms of pricing? I mean you guys still expect kind of weighted average yields to be in that kind of 6.5 6 area going forward on land deals? Yes.
If you look at some of our pursuit log right now that the guys are working across the country I tell you yes that it is high 5 low 6 to maybe a mid-6s is generally what we're looking at across the markets today.
And our next question comes from the line of Jana Galan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate your earlier comments on the 4.4% average cap rate being kind of on the low end of your acquisition cap rate range.
I was curious if these deals do they have -- are they significantly below market or is there more redrive or value add opportunities outside of the Redwood California acquisition? Well a little bit on the one deal in Redmond Washington where there's some vacant retail we think we can turn into some residential units.
But generally we think -- it was only the deal on The Peninsula that we think we'll see here to a significant increase in that cap rate through the work we'll do on the rehab.
Research Division</strong> And were there rents below the market? On The Peninsula I'll tell you that we thought the rents to the Peninsula were very much below.
So in addition to what we think we'll achieve because of the rehab there was opportunity to bring those to market.
But I'll tell you just in general the other properties were probably more stabilized and I don't think represent the same opportunity.
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew McCulloch with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys are always in the market I guess on both the acquisition and disposition fronts.
Can you talk a little bit about how the spike in treasuries that we saw in March impacted the investment sales market? I know rates have since retreated but did you see any disruption in the market in the form of either re-trades or deals falling apart? Well I guess I presume that there were a lot of deals Andy and I don't know if there are a lot of deals.
I can tell you that just on the construction side we've heard from more merchant-like developers that there continues to be equity out there.
But the merchant builders are sort of fighting for it.
There's not enough equity to fund all of the opportunities that are there.
How that changed may have affected -- the change in treasury may have affected what the preferences might be for that equity.
I don't know.
I think it's probably -- construction financing probably plays as big a role in that and that continues to be fairly inexpensive.
Difficult to get but relatively fairly inexpensive.
So I don't think it was as disruptive to that business as your question might imply.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess it was more geared towards how sensitive is the investment sales market or the acquisition market for lower quality assets that you might be selling to short-term move in treasury.
Again I think it's more sensitive to -- okay how treasuries may impact Fannie and Freddie financing? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I'll tell you on the assets that we've been selling it is very sensitive to that which is why as you know that we've been fairly aggressive on the disposition side thinking that increases in interest rates will negatively impact the values of those assets we want to sell as well as any change in the liquidity that Fannie and Freddie provide that space.
Now in addition to just treasuries going up though it is all-in spreads do matter and the agencies will if necessary will trim their spreads in order to offset that if it's important to maintain their share.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then just generally on asset value.
Can you talk about what movement you've seen so far this year across your major markets? Well guess as I told you in the kind of more prepared remarks I think that cap rates have generally stayed fairly consistent.
But we've seen bottom lines improve and so I think you've seen values increase modestly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question on your JV to main development San Jose looks like inflation stabilization dates got pushed out quite a bit.
What's going on there? Yes.
Well it was just time that it took to pull permits.
I think San Jose is not unlike many municipalities where they're a little understaffed and it's just taken longer to get the permits pulled to get through that process than what we had hoped.
And our next question is from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to the base rents.
I think you said 6.5% which I'm assuming is a blended number.
Can you give us what new lease rates were in the first quarter? And not necessarily year-over-year but on a lease over expiring lease basis? You mean the replacement rents? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
It was up 4.3% during the month of April.
During the quarter it was kind of ramping up from the 2 as we came into the year up to that number.
So we're right now at 4.3%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then traffic during the quarter I don't think that there was any mention of that.
Can you give us a sense on how that's trended as well in April as well? April is up e-leads are up our daily traffic to ea.com (sic) [equityapartments.com] is up over last year.
Things appear to be strong on all fronts.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so it wasn't traffic it was really just holding on price then is where the occupancy [indiscernible]...
Right.
And as I've said earlier when you look at our move outs and move ins I mean our move outs for Q1 were 10% more than Q1 of last year.
Yet move ins were up over 4% over last year.
That's driven by more foot traffic more phone calls more applications et cetera.
So it's really on the back end.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
David a question on Archstone not pertaining to negotiations.
But the $1.5 billion purchase price you are talking about now when you announced the $1.325 billion purchase price I think you said that was a 5 recap rate on in place.
Where does the 1.5 pencil to on current cash flow in terms of cap rate? About a 5.
LLC Research Division</strong> About a 5 okay.
And then finally just a question on financing.
Where are you seeing GSE rates today? And also where could you guys do unsecured paper 7 10 years? It's Mark Parrell.
On the -- you said 7 and 10 I'm more focused on the 10 but I have some color for you on the 5 as well.
On the unsecured side assume the treasuries at about a 2% rate.
I think our spread would be about 2% and we issue around 4%.
For 10-year unsecured paper.
On the secured side the GSEs are probably for guys like us and this would be an interest-only loan with favorable terms given our scale would be about 3.85%.
So maybe 15 basis points or so better.
That relationship reverses on 5-year debt the GSEs don't particularly care for 5-year debt.
And they would be more like 2.5% over the 5-year treasury which would be about 3.3% where I think the public market is happy to do 5-year debt and they would be more like 2.7% or about 180 basis points or so over the 5-year treasury.
GSEs as David Neithercut said earlier continue to be very active and continue to be very good sponsors of debt in the sector.
And our next question is from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the whole occupancy versus rate is there's some sort of occupancy floor where if occupancies were continuing to fall at some point you guys would say that's it let's just cut rate fill back up occupancy? Alex this is David Santee.
I mean first I think we needed to keep things in perspective.
Our occupancy was right on top of where we were last year.
So I mean yes.
Yes there is a floor but we didn't come close to that floor.
I think it's more about our expectations for improved occupancy versus being flat on occupancy over last year.
Right.
And I would say that would be really a property by property sort of decision Alex.
We run these things not just property-by-property but unit type-by-unit type.
So certainly the answer to your question is yes.
But really would be on a property-by-property basis.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Marina del Rey and Redmond deal if those are sort of market deals sort of curious why you did them if you think the cap rate was this 10/31 driven or is there something beyond where getting those properties and those areas helps you further down the road with something else? I think you should -- it's a very good question and you should interpret that as just kind of trading right? We're trading out of Jacksonville and trading some assets in Orlando and trading some assets in Phoenix and were just trying to trade into other assets that we think will represent a better total return over an extended time period than what we realize if we were to stay in the assets that we're selling.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then that makes sense.
And then finally David on the Archstone.
It's just hypothetical if there were a deal for just some assets do you have a preference for markets versus quality or age of asset or you're agnostic if it came down to that decision? I'm not going to comment on any of that Alex I'm sorry.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess Dave how do you think about rent affordability from this point? I mean as consumers ability to digest incremental rent increases regardless of whether or not they had a housing alternative and ownership.
I guess I'm wondering if you might think we're running out of room in consumers' wallets at this point? Well look we track rents as a percentage of income and the numbers are still -- demonstrate that there's significant amount of runway across all of our markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you feel though maybe on more of a disposable income basis or something that actually takes into account all the other pressures on consumer's wallets that you maybe have less run rate than you think? Or do you still feel pretty confident by those markets.
Well I guess we just stayed in perspective relative to the past the actual numbers kind of come down.
As Fred and David mentioned that we're losing residents that are unwilling or unable to pay our higher rents but having no problem attracting new residents who are willing to pay that rent.
And those people that are willing to pay that rent have got incomes that support that rent significantly better than past residents.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Just one last question.
Just considering that we are a little further into the cycle and growth has been certainly good to date.
How are you or are you changing your underwriting on future growth as it relates to acquisitions and how does that affect your going in cap rates are you sort of tweaking down your growth expectations for multifamily or has it been really unchanged the last few months? We feel very good about the multifamily space in 2012 and beyond for all the reasons we've been talking about for the last several years.
Just the supply and demand situation is very compelling.
The single-family homeownership situation is very compelling.
The markets in which we're in given the cost of the single-family home ownership kind is very compelling.
So we continue to feel very good about this space.
As I mentioned in response to Alex's question we're trading assets from one market going into other markets and we think that the trade makes a lot of sense for the long-term.
And our next question comes from the line of Philip Martin with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question again following up on the move outs.
Can you give some clarity as to the profile of the move outs? Are they more heavily weighted toward a certain age group or income profile? Well I would say it's probably more weighted toward specific markets.
So I think Fred mentioned earlier in San Francisco 30% of our move outs really for the last 2 to 3 quarters have been due to price or too expensive.
So when you see 30% for 3 quarters that pretty much covers all profiles and demographics.
And I think we've seen that for the last 2 quarters in Boston as well 20%.
So it's more of -- it's probably more of a lifestyle preference.
And we just see it across all demographics.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say it sounds like the rent to income profile is being maintained if not improving a bit.
So are you seeing -- is it fair to say that we're seeing more of a want-to renter as opposed to need-to renter? When I look at our credit statistics we have a credit model and for the last 2 years the number of people that are auto-approved meaning we receive their Social Security Number we run their credit and they're instantly approved that number has been increasing.
For Q1 it was the highest it's ever been.
We look at the distribution of our FICO scores across all of our properties.
The percentage of FICO scores above the 720 are the highest it's ever been.
Again this is partly due to the profile -- I'm sorry the property repositioning but I think that's what we're after.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thank you for that.
Now on the acquisition.
I know there weren't too many here in the first quarter was it $150 million $159 million I missed that number.
Yes.
$159 million.
And all that's laid out in the press release.
Research Division</strong> Exactly.
So the $159 million you mentioned that on one of the acquisitions you were looking to spend $10 000 per unit.
Is that a fair assumption across the entire $159 million? No.
$10 000 a door is what we budget to rehab 123 units that we acquired in Redwood City California.
Research Division</strong> Exactly.
Now looking across this portfolio what is the CapEx per door? It's Mark Parrell.
If you turn to the release and go to Page 21 there is some pretty detailed disclosure on CapEx both for the same-store property set where we have given guidance of about $1 225 a unit for 2012.
That is inclusive -- these are same stores.
These are stabilized assets.
On acquisitions there's a different number and those are non-same-store property set.
So you do have some visibility into those numbers as you go through the release.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the existing portfolio.
When you look going forward can you give us some sense of just the organic growth potential that you have in your existing portfolio from a redevelopment value add just looking out a bit? Well we continue to rehab.
Probably spent $40 million to $50 million a year on rehab of properties out there.
So that's 5 000 or so units a year and we think there will continue to be some opportunity there.
And again we just think that the fundamentals of the business are such that we're going to have some pretty strong organic growth just through the ability to raise the top line just in our existing portfolio.
So again we think that there's a lot of opportunity for the foreseeable future on the top line of our portfolio.
And our next question is from the line of Omotayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question in regards to the tenant survey that you do.
Just trying to get a sense of apart from moving out because of higher rents if there's any real change in regards to the key reasons tenants are moving out? Changes on the reasons people are giving us for moving out? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes any big change trend-wise? Well I mean the over-arching trends kind of a remain the same.
Of course they just from the historical patterns but the number one reason has always been job job transfer job change.
Historically the number two reason was always buying home and then rent increase.
Too expensive was number four or number five on the list.
Now depending upon which market you look at today in some markets home buying is number two a place maybe like a Phoenix.
But yet rent increase too expensive to be number three.
In markets where we see tremendous rent growth places like Denver places like Boston San Francisco certainly without a doubt the number two reason for moving out is rent increase too expensive.
And every quarter we pull the aggregate verbatim results.
You mentioned our surveys.
We look at the verbatim remarks that all of our residents moving out make.
And it's definitely -- the rent increases are definitely a key driver in their decision.
This is Fred.
I'll add to that.
That's a natural thing to expect and to observe at this point in the cycle.
Because during the recession when rents were going down 5% 10% 15% 20% in some cases not everyone lost their job and those people with steady income enjoyed an increase in their housing value by being able to afford a nicer apartment better location better building at a lower rent.
So they actually basically would have profile shift up and they were the beneficiary.
Now that rents are pretty much back or above peak levels at some of these key markets now we've had a couple of years of very strong rent increases those people have traded up now are going to just to trade back down.
They're not going to be able to either afford or want to afford those rent levels.
But the good news as we mentioned earlier is there's plenty of people behind them who are willing to fill those apartments especially during the leasing season.
So when we look at the marginal resident coming in all of the credit and income statistics are very favorable and encouraging and those moving out we have a special case in the corporates whose margins get squeezed.
Then we have a case of those people who traded up who are now trading out.
Then one other just anecdotal comment we looked at our transfers.
Early on in the recession when things are really going down we analyze our transfers within our system and people were transferring out of expensive apartments and into cheaper apartments [indiscernible] and what's happening now is our transfers why we look at those.
And more people actually transferring to larger more expensive apartments within our buildings versus the contrary.
So it's another indicator that our resident base is healthy and...
That's an important thing to point out as well.
Fred mentioned that our turnover was up 100 basis points and 20 basis points of that stays within the family of Equity communities either they are moving from one apartment to another or they're moving from a community in New York City to a community in L.A.
and we track all of that.
And our next question comes from the line of Nic Yulico with Macquarie.
Just quickly on the acquisition guidance.
If we're to assume that you do get Archstone? Would you then also have the desire of doing say $1 billion on top of that acquisition so you could actually be a significant net acquirer this year? The guidance that we've given in the press release has nothing to do with Archstone and if something were to happen to Archstone I'm not quite sure what would happen to the normal transaction activity.
Okay.
And just I guess assuming that at some point if you did become say net acquirer of say over $1 billion I mean how should we think about how you guys might finance that? I mean do you sort of target -- what's sort of target leverage level that you want to keep the company at these days? Well we've not suggested at all.
Our guidance suggest that we -- we have no intention of being a net acquirer this year.
And in fact we'll acquire -- we'll sell whatever we need to sell to match the acquisitions and we're comfortable with our leverage levels.
They're well within the ranges that we've been operating for the last 19 years and sometimes we've been up within that range sometimes down in that range and we're very comfortable with where we are today.
And our next question is from -- a follow-up question from Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's Michael Bilerman.
David I just wanted to come back just in terms of the Archstone cap rate.
And I don't want to split hairs.
But you talked about a 5 3 and then you said it went down to a 5 at the $1.5 billion implied equity.
I get something closer to 5 10 10 basis points depending on how much you acquire if you acquire could be a lot.
So I just didn't know if there was something I was missing in that math? No Michael I mean we're just talking generalities here.
Research Division</strong> I know but 10 basis points on $18 billion potentially could be a lot depending if you're at 5 5 3 or 5 10.
You're speculating a great deal.
And should we be able to work something out we'll be delighted to give you the specifics at that time.
Research Division</strong> And just to make sure I remember correctly when you guys originally did the $1.33 million implied a $5 billion equity value -- sorry a $5 billion equity value now at 1 5 you're at a 5 7 equity value.
And I think I remember Lehman was at that point where they said they thought it was worth at least a $6 billion equity and then another $1 billion enterprise value for the platform.
Was that sort of general how things had gone? I mean is that what Lehman said is that the question? I do believe Lehman said -- it's publicly stated something on along those lines yes.
And there are no further questions at this time.
So I will turn it back to management.
You may continue.
Great.
Thank you all for your time today.
We appreciate it.
And we'll see you around.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Equity Residential First Quarter Earnings Conference Call on the 28th of April 2011.
[Operator Instructions] I will now hand the conference over to Mr.
Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Nishal.
Good morning thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's first quarter 2011 results.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercutt our President and CEO; and Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
Fred Tuomi our EVP of Property Management; and David Santee our EVP of Property Operations are also with us here for the Q&amp;A.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn it over to David.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking time to join us for our call today.
As you heard us say for quite some time now it's a great time to be in the apartment business.
And as we look at the 4 key drivers of our top line we're happy to say that turnover continues to decline and that helps build occupancy exposure.
Occupancy and fulfillments are leading the pricing power so our base rents and our renewal rents are increasing as we continue to push rents with confidence.
It's really important to note though that the first quarter of the year does not produce a terribly large number of absolute least transactions so that our primary leasing season is still ahead of us.
We've kept our operating guidance unchanged for the time being and we'll provide an update in our second quarter call in late July when we're further into our final leasing season.
That being said though as we look at the 4 months of actual performance we have under our belt as we look at our exposure today of 7.6%.
And as we look at the renewal activity we're seeing 30 or 60 days out we've got every reason to believe that our same store revenue and net operating income growth for the full year should be in the top half of our current guidance range.
And Fred Tuomi David Santee they're here to answer I'm sure the many questions you've got on fundamentals across our core markets.
On the transaction side it's no surprise that the acquisition market remains extremely competitive.
There is a massive amount of capital looking to be deployed in multifamily real estate today.
And we think that cap rates in our markets across the country are in the 4% to 5% range and that investors underwriting unleveraged internal rates of return with 7 to 8 handles.
As a result we think the valuations in our primary markets have recovered significantly.
And looking at our own assets here depending on the market we think values are now in a range of maybe back to even to down 10% or so and that's from the peak that we saw in 2007 2008.
And I'll tell you that these values recover from declines of as much as 30% and more.
As noted on the last night's press release during the quarter we acquired 2 multifamily assets for $139 million in the first quarter.
We bought 225 units in Fort Lauderdale Florida.
This is an asset that's across the street from an existing asset that we own there.
We paid $200 000 a door.
That's about $180 a foot at a cap rate in the low 5s but we're pretty confident that we'll be in the fixture soon.
We have line into assets that are undermanaged and we're going to gain some efficiency by operating the asset with our neighboring property.
We also bought 296 units in the Longwood Medical Center [Area] Boston's Back Bay.
A $317 000 a unit which is about $346 a foot.
We paid a high 5 cap rate for that deal.
That property's surrounded by numerous colleges hospitals and other medical facilities and it's very difficult if not nearly impossible to build new in that market place.
And I will tell you although we didn't value this we do think that there's a redevelopment possibility on the existing apartments that's on that particular property.
As noted in the report last night we also bought a commercial property in downtown Seattle.
This property is adjacent to our Harbor Steps property 97 000 square feet of office and retail space and we will operate it as such as we wait for the demolition of the elevated highway which is immediately to the west of the property and the only barrier that separates this asset from the Puget Sound.
Property's currently vacant and we're going to finish the rehab started by the seller and we expect a stabilized yield in the high single digits which will be achieved in a couple of years as we inventory this asset for development or redevelopment opportunity somewhere down the road.
During the quarter we also continued to sell non-core assets to reduce our overall exposure to what we consider our non-core markets.
We sold 12 assets in the quarter for $262 million realizing a weighted average IRR of 10.75% which we're pretty pleased about.
5 of those properties were in Maryland with an average age of more than 30 years and 4 of which I'll tell you was more than 50 miles from the district.
We sold 2 assets in Atlanta 2 assets in San Francisco's East Bay 1 in Phoenix and 1 in St.
Pete [St.
Petersburg Florida].
I'll tell you that it's a bid for the assets that we would like to sell remains very strong.
We're seeing cap rates on our forward 12 numbers in the 5 to 75 to 7 1/4 range.
And it's important to note that we think that makes the buyers actually cap rate probably 50 basis points or so below that.
And we think these represent good values when looked at on a per foot or per unit basis and we're willing to continue to sell into that bid because we think these values are very interest-rate sensitive.
Now as noted also in last night's release the strong demand for assets has caused us to accelerate our distribution activity for the year.
In fact we sold $530 million of assets in April alone.
This past Tuesday we closed on a 7-property 1 626 unit portfolio sale with a single buyer.
As the $286 million trade all these deals were in the Metro D.C.
area 6 of them in Virginia 1 in Maryland.
6 of the 7 assets were built in the '80s and we sold that at about 5.7% cap rate to us which we think was about a 5.2% or so to the buyer.
This month we've also sold 3 deals in Portland Oregon 2 in Phoenix and 1 each in Palm Beach Florida Lawrence Massachusetts and Manchester New Hampshire so we're announcing our exit in the Manchester New Hampshire rent market.
These last 6 deals sold at a weighted average cap rate in the very low 6s.
So year-to-date today we sold $792 million of deals and we have another $200 million under contract.
So it's quite clear we've got the potential to sell well beyond our original guidance assumptions.
But of course it has to be balanced against the opportunity to redeploy that capital into acquisitions which as I already said is a pretty competitive process today.
We only acquired $139 million of apartment deals in the first quarter.
We've acquired 1 deal this month for $100 million in downtown L.A.
and we pictured that on the frontpage of last night's earnings release and we have 3 more properties under contract for $255 million: 1 in D.C.
proper 1 in Arlington Virginia and 1 in L.A.
So as we sit here today we should be a net seller of around $500 million by midyear.
And as we've noted this has accelerated the level of disposition activity.
This is going to be incrementally more dilutive to our financial results for the year than our original assumptions.
Nevertheless though I'd tell you we're very pleased at the opportunities we're seeing to sell these non-core assets and exit these non-core markets.
And of course we'll have a much better idea how this all going to shape up and unfold for the full year by our second quarter earnings release and we'll update our transaction and FFO guidance at that time.
On the development side during the quarter we commenced construction on 1 new development deal and that's with at the Gateway to Chinatown [Chinatown Gateway] in downtown L.A.
It's a 280-unit transaction and at the end of that about $332 000 a door.
Now the yield on our cost for this deal at our basis will be below market because our land basis was above market by about $14 million or so.
This is land that we acquired in the mid-2000s.
And because we always intended to build on it we couldn't write it down.
So our GAAP yield on this deal will be in the low 5s with the land value at market the GAAP yield would be in low-to-mid 6s.
During the quarter we also completed our 250-unit deal in Redmond Washington This deal is leased up extraordinary well.
The team has done a great job on leasing velocity there and it will stabilize significantly sooner than we had expected.
We're also planning to start this quarter our development deal our joint venture development deal in Miami.
And we continue to look for starts for the year coming in at around $400 million to $500 million level.
I'll tell you Mark Tennison's team continually look for new development opportunities.
They're currently working sites in all of our core markets: Boston New York D.C.
area South Florida Southern Cal San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle.
And I tell you all of these deals are being aggressively pursued by most of the parties.
Our preliminary underwriting suggests yields on these deals and probably other development deals in these markets would currently be in the mid 5s to the mid 6 range.
I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on today's call.
This morning I'm going to focus primarily on 3 things: Our first quarter results our guidance for the second quarter and the remainder of 2011; and I'll close with an update on the revolving credit markets and on our balance sheet.
We reported normalized FFO of $0.56 per share for the quarter and this was slightly above our target.
On the revenue side as David said all the indicators from our operating platform are flashing green.
I want to give you some color on our 4 main revenue drivers and I'm just going to go through them quickly.
The first driver we always talk about is turnover.
On our February 2011 call Fred Tuomi said that we were assuming that our 2011 resident turnover would increase slightly as we push rent.
We are certainly pushing rents but we are retaining more of our residents even at higher renewal rent levels.
The second driver we talked about is occupancy.
We expected an average occupancy for the entire year to be around 95% which is a 20 basis point increase over 2010.
Occupancy in the first quarter was slightly higher than we expected for that period and we anticipate occupancy for the entire year to exceed our expectations.
Third thing we like to talk about is base rents.
Base rents are currently up 5.7% over this time last year.
This too was slightly better than what we had expected.
And our final driver we talk about is renewal rents.
And for April renewal rents are up a healthy 6.1% over this time last year.
And again that is better than we had expected.
If you kind of put this all onto the blender you can see why at this early point in the year we are optimistic about achieving our 2011 same-store revenue growth and we would expect that to be in the upper half of our 4% up to 5% up revenue guidance range.
On the expense side through the first quarter our big 3 expense categories real estate taxes on-site payroll and utilities were all on plan.
As we look to the balance of the year it appears likely that our annual expense number will be towards the bottom half of our plus 1% to plus 2% guidance range for expenses.
And why is that? Well on the real estate tax side we budgeted that flat and we may end up being down.
We continue to have very good success on appeals even better than we had expected.
And if this pattern persists we may see some unexpected benefit in that category.
Property management costs is another area of opportunity we do expect these to grow but probably by not as much as we had expected because some of the efficiency initiatives that David Santee mentioned on prior calls are moving faster than we had thought back in February when we gave you guidance.
Speaking of guidance we have provided a normalized FFO guidance range for the second quarter a $0.57 to $0.61 per share.
The difference between the company's first quarter 2011 normalized FFO of $0.56 per share and the midpoint of the second quarter guidance range of $0.59 per share is primarily due to these 3 factors.
So again reconciling those at $0.03 increase.
A positive impact of $0.04 per share will come from higher total property NOI in the second quarter of 2011.
And of that $0.04 $0.01 will come from incremental lease up NOI $0.03 will come from increased NOI from the same-store property set as expenses decline due to see seasonal factors and as we start to have more opportunities to raise rents during our peak leasing season.
We further expect in the second quarter to have a positive impact of about $0.02 per share mostly due to less interest expense.
We will have a lower average debt balance in the second quarter of 2011 than we did in the first quarter of 2011.
We also expect a negative impact of about $0.03 per share due to dilution predominantly coming from our 2011 transaction activity.
Some of this dilution was included in our prior guidance.
However as David noted the timing of our disposition activity has moved forward quite a bit which will increase our dilution in the second quarter and for the full year.
And as a point of reference this is the exact opposite of what occurred in 2010 where we had accelerated acquisition or activity in the first 4 months of 2010 with disposition activity backloaded towards the end of 2010.
We expect our 2011 and normalized FFO per share to accelerate each quarter as the year goes on driven by sequential increases in NOI from property operation both from the same-store and lease up properties as base rent and renewal rent increases flow through our portfolio.
This will be offset in part by the dilution from our transaction activity including the acceleration of disposition activity that I just mentioned.
On the balance sheet side we're in good shape.
And our strong credit metrics continue to improve as our operating business thrives.
EQR's liquidity position is excellent.
Cash on hand today including 1031 escrow balances stands at about $770 million and our revolving line of credit is undrawn and has about $1.35 billion in capacity.
Cash balances at year end should be about $300 million.
And now just a quick note on the revolving credit market.
Our existing revolving line of credit matures in February 2012 and you can expect us to refinance our revolver over the next few quarters.
So as you might imagine we have been keen observers of the revolver refinance market.
I am happy to report that this market has improved greatly over the last few months.
Banks are eager to deploy capital with conservatively leveraged companies like Equity Residential making the market as deep for high-quality credit as it was in 2007.
On the other hand while the investment grade revolver market is clearly strong borrowing spreads and upfront fees remain above 2007 levels but the current momentum is for these to continue to compress.
As a point of comparison our existing revolving line of credit carries an all-in spread of 50 basis points or 0.5% above LIBOR.
New revolving credit facilities for real estate companies comparably rated to Equity Residential are being done today at all-in spreads of about 1.5% above LIBOR.
I expect that our new covenant package would be substantially similar to our existing covenant package and that the new revolver will carry a 4- or 5-year term.
An estimate of the impact of the revolver renewal on normalized FFO is included in our guidance.
I look forward to reporting the full details on our new revolving ones it is complete.
And now I'll turn the call back over to David.
Thank you Mark.
Michelle we would be happy to open the call for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Yana Galang [ph].
I was curious maybe if you could give us some more color on the market? Any particular market? Maybe more Southern California compared to New York and D.C.? This is Fred Tuomi.
I'd be happy to give you some color on that.
Were you referring to renewal performance specifically? Yes.
Mark mentioned our renewals for April are up 6.1% and that's actually achieved completed renewals.
And going forward into the next month it looks like growth will continue to improve recording in the 7 achieving maybe in the low 6s.
Looking at the April renewals those are complete.
The most powerful renewals are done in San Francisco at 8.4.
8.4 up in San Francisco.
Denver was 7.9 D.C.
Virginia was 7.1 and Seattle is also 7.1.
So we're getting some power in those great markets.
As expected Southern California is going to bring up the rear.
Renewals and we did achieve at 3.3 in L.A.
3.6 in Orange County which is starting to gain some momentum and in San Diego was a 4.2.
And then I was just curious about the disposition activity and it seems that some of the more recent ones were kind of in the D.C.
Virginia area and kind of the thinking behind why you thought that was better to dispose of rather than keep.
Well we just had a very attractive opportunity to sell some of our older more outlying garden-style assets.
And I also noted that we had acquired a couple of properties in D.C.
And so we just thought it was appropriate way to balance our exposure there.
And net of all of this I'd tell you we'll be down about $200 million of exposure following the completions of both these buys and sells.
The next question comes from Swaroop Yalla.
I was just wondering the acquisitions which you mentioned for this quarter did I miss -- I think it was reported in the press about another building that you guys bought in L.A.
Is that something which was part of this? Or I mean or am I jumping the gun here? I'm not sure part of what.
We did acquire for $100 million a property in downtown L.A.
which has been -- previously been an office building which has been converted into apartments; I mean a phenomenal location in downtown L.A.
It's 322 units and we think we bought that at close to a 5 cap.
And then just touching back on Southern California question.
I was just wondering what is the sort of macro drivers for the lagging performance? Is it the lack of jobs or the quality of jobs? Or is it the supply in that market which is still taking time to clear? This is Fred Tuomi again.
Southern California I'll take it by major market.
First Los Angeles.
L.A.
is a big market.
It's a big diverse economy.
It was hit hard in the recession; all the sectors were hit pretty hard some worse than others.
And the job growth although it's coming back it's coming back slower a little bit later than other markets.
So we still love L.A.
It's going to be great.
But just now it's starting to get some momentum on the job creation.
It's going to need some job growth across all sectors.
Most recently -- I'm more concerned about the state local city governments.
But sectors such as The Port [ph] showing some good high single low double digit growth.
Entertainment is up.
The technology's been stable.
Defense has some good news bad news.
So it's sort of a mixed bag but gaining momentum and should grow about 50 000 jobs this year; to forecast which is a 1.3%.
Unemployment's still lingering kind of high.
It's at 12.2.
So still needs a little more time to percolate on the job but I believe they're coming.
L.A.
also was a victim of supply.
In the last couple of years of 5 000-plus new units delivered into L.A.
Even though it's a big market they're highly concentrated in market rates in the key submarkets like Warner Center in San Fernando Valley and those areas of Hollywood and southern downtown.
The downtown market has absorbed quite well but there's other 2 markets that have been struggling with the absorption.
This year they're delivering another 2 000 units.
2011 will see 2 200 units still coming into L.A.
There's kind of a spillover at those projects.
And next year we'll probably see another 2 000.
So a little bit of a supply pressure in the market that's sort of weak.
That's holding L.A.
back.
Now L.A.
is as I said it's a big market lots of submarkets.
Some markets we're in are performing quite well much better than the top line number you see.
But those areas like [indiscernible] Warner Center we've got tests a lot of concessions some really tough lease up pressure as well as in the NoHo area.
Orange County is a smaller market easier to kind of get your arms around.
We're happy to see job growth coming back to Orange County earlier than L.A.
So it's kind of nice to learn here that jobs are up about 2.2% or 30 000 jobs.
Occupancy has recovered.
We're 96% occupied in Orange County right now and renewal increases are starting to pick up at 3 6 and our rents are up and 4.7 over last year and up already 4% this year to date.
So Orange County we see a strengthening trend led by jobs.
And then nice thing about Orange County only 200 new units being delivered this year.
That's unheard of.
Typically we run 2 000 to 3 500 per year in Orange County.
We only had 200 and only a couple of hundred coming next year.
San Diego has been -- even though it's a small market sort of a disappointment.
It's been kind of also based on the military.
We've had military rotations in and out; mostly out.
And that's been kind of a dampening effect on San Diego's progress.
It's doing okay but not great.
Renewals are up 4%.
Rents are up in the 3 range and occupancy is roughly around 95.
And again in San Diego North County's doing much better Mission Valley is still competitive and has no material impact impact.
And in the South County definitely the military impact doesn't hurt any less in South County San Diego.
The next question comes from Eric Wolfe from Citigroup.
Maybe just a follow up on the asset sales.
I know you mentioned in your remarks that there's a lot of capital going after apartments.
But I guess why accelerate the pace of sales if asset values are going up NOI is going up and you don't really have a use for the proceeds in terms of acquisitions at least in the short term? Well we think that these assets are subject to -- the valuations are subject to the interest rate risk and we just think as we look at these prices on a per pound basis and what we think buyers' expectations are in those valuations for revenue growth and rent growth.
We think that these are fair prices.
I think that one can wait too long and not have the ability to sell.
And so we think when the opportunity is there we have to take advantage of it.
I think you said that there's an underwriting in the 7% to 8% IR range.
How were they getting that? I mean is NOI growth flat over the next couple of years and then cap rates stay sort of where they are or is that...
No I said my comment was what I thought buyers were underwriting sort of more core product.
And so actually I think people are underwriting these assets that we've been selling more at higher IRRs than that.
I think that Alan George's team would tell you that he's seeing more buyers out there thinking about more value-add opportunities.
And so I think we're selling assets into that mindset with the hope that by putting however much money into these older properties we're selling we'll be able to get incrementally higher rents.
And as long as the people want to pay us for that opportunity we think it's the right thing to do.
I guess for the assets in particular that you sold the $800 million.
What would be your expectations NOI growth over the next couple of years and net interest rates move up.
Where do you think cap rates could go for those assets? Well we think NOI growth for those deals will still be okay.
I don't think we'll expect the same NOI growth that we'll see in the properties which we have been investing but I don't see any reason why the deals we're selling won't see a decent NOI growth.
And I think the valuations show acquires expectations of that growth.
I'd just tell you that I think that the buyers that are acquiring these assets are leveraged buyers and so interest rates make those valuations very sensitive then we just we don't have an expectation.
Sooner than later at some point in time interest rates will go up and those valuations could be at risk.
There'll be top line growth as well.
So I don't know how much values might change whether that top line will be able to keep up the pace.
But in any event we've targeted assets or markets that we don't believe that are in the long-term picture for EQR.
And as a result of that we are now just as we have over the past 5 years systematically going and offering those properties into the marketplace and we think they're pretty good values today.
The next question comes from David Toti of FBR Capital Investments.
I want to touch on something that seems to be a little bit of a theme in this space.
And that's the -- you're pushing rents yet your turnover's falling and your occupancies are rising.
And I assume traffic has been increasing as well.
Is the message there that there's a lag and that you just haven't pushed rents hard enough yet that we should expect going forward to start to see some of that reverse? The indication to me is that maybe you left a little bit of rent on the table by not driving it hard enough.
This as David Santee.
Like David said earlier in his comments this really isn't the time of year when you look at the cyclical nature of demand.
It's just a hard time of year to push rent.
And I think when you look at our renewal rents -- and to be honest.
I mean we still haven't seen robust job growth in most of these markets.
So I would say that demand is pretty on par with what we saw last year through the same time period.
So I think it's all relative and it's relative depending on from what market you're talking about.
I mean some of these -- also keep in mind if you think about what we've experienced in the last 2 to 3 years it was more of a V-shape than a long drawn out decline.
So we still had as of last quarter we had about 20% of our residents that were still above our current market rents.
In the last 3 months we closed that gap to where only 13% of our residents are at an average of 1% above market rents.
So again depending upon how you measure it I would say that we've been very aggressive with pushing rents.
Yeah I think that's right.
If you go back to the renewal rates that credit quoted in some of those markets around the country for 30 60 days out they're was a very strong high single-digit renewals.
And then the other side of the coin is is that so you have people that are living here that are still paying above market rents.
Those folks are still getting maybe a 1% or 2% but people that moved in in the lowest part of the down cycle I mean a lot of these folks are getting 15% 20% 25% rent increases.
David this is Fred.
I can give you a little bit more color on that issue a per market also.
Base rent increases the net effect of new lease rates are up year-over-year in San Francisco 10.9% as of right now.
Boston up 9.2%; D.C.
Virginia up 8.9%.
Pretty robust but the average is brought down again by Southern California where Inland Empire is pretty much flat.
L.A.'s up 1% San Diego up 2.5% and Orange County a little better.
So it sounds to me like you're being pretty aggressive on rents but yet the trend of retention is sort of maybe working in your favor.
That's sort of what it sounds like.
Despite double-digit rent increases in a lot of markets you're still seeing turns drop and occupancy rise.
Yes and that was contrary to what our initial thought on how this year would play out.
You would expect as you put the pedal on the rent the more people move out.
That's not happening.
And I think that's kind of a systematic view of our business right now is people aren't buying homes.
Homebuying continues to drop.
They're enjoying the lifestyle.
They can rent a better lifestyle than they can afford to buy.
They're in great cities with great jobs.
And consider the alternatives.
They're not going to sink every penny that they can beg borrow and steal into a home.
They're not going to move out into the 'burbs.
They're going to stay in urban core enjoy a great life and continuing to want to buy up on that lifestyle.
So we're seeing great retention at good pricing.
I think the last data point is when you look at our reason for move out.
Historically it's always been the number 1 reason for move out is job change then second to that was always home buying and rent increase too expensive was usually about number 4 number 5 on the list.
Today and for the past really 2 to 3 quarters rent increase or too expensive has been our number 2 reason for move out and equates to about 14% of our move outs.
So I think that's a testament to our aggressiveness and kind of pushing those rents to the limit.
Let me just add one other.
I'll just repeat that.
On the overall market dynamics this thing about no supply in 2011 and 2012 is a real game changer.
Before you'd always have a good number of supply coming in to these markets.
It gave people choices gave them options and gave them incentives to move.
We don't have new supply now.
None of our key markets have a supply issue this year and they're not going to have it next year.
And that just takes an option right off the table.
So people are staying put.
In aggregate how would you compare traffic today to let's say the same time last year? And do you see any change in the closing rate relative to the traffic flow? Yes there's a couple of different dynamics that we're seeing.
Number one as far as our traffic to equityapartments.com in the past couple of months we've seen daily increases of 15% to 25% unique visitors.
Now the dynamic changes when you start publishing rents online.
And historically our foot traffic for the most part has remained the same.
So the people that call or submit a guest card online those people that finally make it to the property for the most part quarter-over-quarter relative to last year is about the same.
But historically we've always seen a 75/25 breakout.
So 75% of the people actually rented and moved in and then the other 25% canceled or were disqualified or declined.
What we've seen in the last 2 quarters is a shift in 80%.
80% of those people are now moving in and only 20% of those people are canceling or being declined.
The next question comes from Bill Acheson of Ladenburg Thalmann Investments.
On the commercial property next to Harbor Steps in terms of a comment not a question I'm kind of hoping it was that a three-story entertainment venue.
It doesn't sound like that's the case.
No.
On expenses I continue to marvel at the expense control that you guys are doing.
I mean the only market that seem to stick out was New York City.
I assume -- I'm assuming that was property taxes.
But looking forward I mean how heavily have you weighed in the increase in energy? Well when you look at our utility mix utilities makes up about 60% and energy makes up about 40%.
I would tell you that we see more growth in the water sewer.
Water sewer is up about 9%.
But then gas natural gas we did a rate lock through this year so natural gas is offsetting that sewer and water rates.
I tend to think that we're already talking about our natural gas strategy for next year.
And frankly we see no reason today to considering a lock for next year and just may ride the market unless there is some significant speculative change relative to future pricing.
I don't know if that answers your question.
No no no I understand.
I mean the other thing is to the extent that your properties are transit-centric the increase in energy should be a net benefit I would imagine?  In talking about Phoenix here you guys have boots on the ground there.
In terms of a market commentary there it doesn't look like -- I mean looking at the increase in rents that you're able to get there doesn't look like all the single-family homes that are on the market there that are up for rent here doesn't look like it's having any effect on your ability to raise rents? Phoenix has been a pleasant surprise.
We're expecting a lot worse due to the mass of single-family overhead.
But what's happening in Phoenix is even though the prices on homes continue to plummet foreclosures continue to mount through today people just aren't buying those homes really at any price.
And a lot of those distressed single-family homes are outside of the core markets they are far North far West Phoenix our portfolio there is much concentrated than all the good neighborhoods where you want to be.
Home buying due to home buying in Phoenix continues to drop this quarter over last quarter first quarter last year is down another 4%.
It's only 16.7% which is very very low for Phoenix.
So you're right Phoenix is kind of define initial logic is doing fantastic we're seeing good rent growth renewals are up 6% occupancy even at this stage of the year is 95.9 as we start going into the warmer season there.
And all systems are going and we're really pleased with it.
The next question comes from Jay Habermann of Goldman Sachs.
David you mentioned obviously the accelerating dispositions and it looks like you're getting close to $1 billion based on what you sort of have in the works.
What's your thoughts? If you do exceed by how much would you anticipate doing so? Very hard to say Jay.
If I had a better sense of that we might have kind of changed our guidance already.
But we're working on acquisition opportunities and I think that will have a -- will play a big part on what we do on the dispo side.
We continue to think that there will be more acquisition opportunities later in the year.
We don't know if the color we get out there from our guys that are working this every day for us in the field our conversations with our brokers they know that brokers are having more and more conversations with owners giving them their opinions and value and they're telling us that more products coming.
So it's really hard for me today to kind of give you a best guess how this is going to end up at the end of the year and in the past years our disposition and acquisition activity is kind of been balanced throughout the year.
And as I've said over the past several cause it's just going to be lumpy.
And because it does such it's just very hard to call.
And just switching gears a little bit I know acquisitions are projected to be about double starts for the year but as you think about the next couple of years and perhaps building your development pipeline I mean are you guys changing your philosophies sort of the buy versus build? Are you more willing to buy today to get the rent growth more immediately or are you thinking about longer term and developing.
Well I guess it's both.
It's never kind of an either or proposition for us Jay.
We operate in markets and I tell you markets we've been buyers of existing streams of income At the same time we've been buyers of land site.
So it all just depends on what the opportunities are and if we think we're getting the appropriate risk adjusted return for taking the development risk.
But we think development continues to be a terrific opportunity for us way for us to create value.
But I also think that acquiring assets is the way to create value as evidenced by what we did in late '09 and the early part of 2010.
So I think we'll play both and I think you'll see us be buying existing streams of income and building new streams of income in most of our core markets around the country.
And then lastly on New York City are you seeing any sort of price sensitivity on the part of tenants? i mean are tenants willing to move perhaps for cheaper rents outside of the city or are you not seeing that yet? No.
New York is just been a sweet spot again.
January and early February was a little soft that's seasonal to be expected and then it just really tightened up.
There's very little new supply coming into New York this year or next year the broker fees are pretty much all gone come late March and in April very strong demand.
Before we're relying on job growth coming from business services and legal and entertainment and now the financial sector and all you guys are hiding like crazy.
And they're all renting apartments versus buying homes out in the 'burbs.
So we're seeing very strong demand and increasing demand in New York limited supplies so rents are moving up quite nicely in New York.
The next question comes from Alex Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
David in your opening comments I just want to make sure I got this right.
I think you said that your math would suggest that some of the stuff that you're selling is 5 3/4 to 7 1/4 but you think that the buyers cap rate maybe 50 basis points lower.
I would've expected the inverse.
So I want to make sure if I heard that right and if I did if you could just sort of walk through that? Well I think that after adjusting for real estate taxes it will likely be changed at the transfer.
I'd tell you they don't get the same insurance benefits that we get.
They certainly don't get the same leasing and advertising benefits that David Santee and his team deliver.
So our expectations that it's going to be more difficult for them to see the same sort of benefit on the expense side that we see.
My second question is and this is sort of -- more of a -- sort of macro thing.
Certainly anyone who went to the NYU event noticed a large contingent outside we've all been getting e-mails.
AvalonBay certainly had some stuff going on at their development site in Long Island.
Do you think that the current environment is just a lot more charged than it historically has been or is this the cycle of things? And right now we're just sort of at a peak.
But if you go back in years there's been this sort of protest that have come and gone? Well for those of you who don't understand what Alex was referring to there were some construction union people protesting at a meeting that Sam and I participated in New York not too long ago.
And they're protesting the fact that we use nonunion labor for our deal under construction in Manhattan at 23rd.
It's hard for me to respond to that Alex because I don't really have a frame of reference.
It's just we've moved on it's not been a problem for us.
They tried to do things that annoy our residents at various buildings around New York and I tell you our residents don't really care.
And I guess we gave this union shops and opportunity to bid and gave them sort of bogeys they need to hit they were unwilling or unable to hit those and so we decided to go with an experienced contractor that used nonunion labor and we're extremely pleased with the job that they're doing.
So I don't know -- I think you mentioned AvalonBay my guess is 1:00 today you're going to maybe get a better idea from Bryce who might have a bigger frame of reference for you about their experience dealing with these unions.
The next question comes from Andrew McCulloch of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.</strong> On acquisitions and sorry if I missed it has the market changed with respect to potential portfolio acquisitions? Or most of the deals that you're still targeting are one off? Mostly one-off Andy.
We've seen very few larger portfolio transactions.
I mean I can't remember us looking at anything more than maybe 2 deals but we're working now on a pair of deals smaller deals that are sort of run as 1.
But other than that it's really been a 1 off acquisition process for us.
Of course other than the 3 deals we bought in New York in early 2010.
Inc.</strong> And then just on the market for broken condo assets is that market pretty well picked over or do you still see opportunities out there to acquire assets that aren't half pregnant with presales? What we did early on was to buy completely vacant deals then we did look at some deals that had a very small percentage of units being sold through third parties.
And I'm not sure that we're seeing anything today on the busted condo front.
I will tell you that we are looking at some deals that have been busted condos which have now been leased as apartments.
So in fact Alan was telling me about one just the other day.
So the current owners switched from condo to rental and now it's a stabilized apartment building and they're thinking about perhaps selling it.
But we've not seen much of that.
But I'll tell you there is some talk out there about improvements in the condo market and maybe even people starting to gin up construction for condominiums again.
So I think if you probably had to wherewithal the hold on this long.
My guess is it probably behooves you to continue down that path.
Inc.</strong> And just one question on development can you update us where the stabilized yields are trending for your various in process development projects.
I think you already touched on Chinatown but for the other deals? I'd tell you low 5s our expectations were probably in the 6s but they're probably low 5s just given the timing and construction costs at the time and land prices at the time but probably trending probably low 5s.
The next question comes from Tony Paolone of JPMorgan.
It's actually Ralph Davies on the line for Tony.
Was calling in terms of component of your portfolio that you would classify as interest-rate sensitive.
Recognizing the deployment kind of limits sales.
I was wondering could talk about how much of your asset base would fit the interest-rate sensitive I guess bucket outside of the $1.25 billion? Well I guess I'd say 100% of our portfolio is interest rate sensitive.
I'm not -- don't mean to suggest that our sort of core longer-term assets aren't we just don't think that they are as sensitive interest rates.
We don't think that even the buyers with whom we complete to acquire our core product are basing their bid based upon what kind of leverage they can get from the Lifeco from the agency so they could compare it more to what BBB bond yields are.
Et cetera et cetera.
I think what we're seeing is the properties that we're trying to sell those are a much more heavily-leveraged buyer whose valuations are directly tied to the mortgage financing.
And our team we've got a terrific team of people who handle our secured financing and they can tell you exactly what's going to happen to the GSEs or Lifeco advance amounts and advance rates based upon very small changes in interest rate.
And we immediately see this.
We've got deals under letter of intent and buyers come back to us and say markets move 25 bps spread wide and what have you.
And those values change.
So I would say 100% of our assets are interest-rate sensitive.
And we just think that there's more volatility due to interest rate changes on the assets that we've been selling.
So would you say that in terms of the component of your portfolio that I guess more volatile would you say it's not much outside of that $1.25 billion or? Well look I guess if the question is and forgive me if I'm going ahead here but the question is how much more of that assets are we still planning on selling.
We think that could be perhaps a couple of billion dollars more.
And so that's part of the longer-term plan.
So going back to 1 of the earlier questions why are we selling now we'll look over the next 5 years at the asset we know we don't want to own over the next 5 years and we've got some we want to sell.
So we need to take advantage of pricing today because in a perfect world there will be more behind it.
Got it thanks.
And then just quickly for Mark.
Could you remind us what's in that non-comparable line item to get to normalized FFO? I think it was about $2.1 million.
And will that kind of run at that rate for the rest of the year? I can direct you just to Page 22 of the release.
There's a lot of good detail on that so when you go through and you want to just reconcile on normalized or actually white paper or classic FFO in a normalize we give you the reconciling items.
So some of that reconciliation was due to forfeited deposits this quarter which was about $500 000 that we had.
So that's listed on the schedule.
We also had an insurance recovery on Prospect Towers of $1.6 million.
So most of that adjustment was due to those as well as the normal things you see us adjust for which is to convert bond premium as well as property acquisition cost.
So that sort of lay down on 22 and hopefully that answers your question.
It does.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
First how much higher above the 6 -- low 6s growth that you're seeing on renewal rents do you think it's reasonably achievable over the next year given headwinds from oil on the consumer given that you've got a diversified portfolio that's not just New York or Washington or San Francisco? Can you meaningfully get that number up from the low 6s? Or is that are we going to start hitting a wall up there? Well I think a lot of it just depends on the continued fundamentals in our industry low supply even if job growth trickles in.
I think we'll continue to push and try to maximize that number.
It's really just really depends on what the market rates end up doing.
And all indications are simple rules of supply and demand if the demand continues to increase on a fixed supply we would expect market rates continuing to increase above average run rates of 3 and maybe in the 4 or 5 and therefore we'd expect to see renewals then you could run it 5 or 6.
I'll also add there we look at that another way just the financial condition of our customers.
And those coming in we see still very good strong credit score and income ratios and overall in our entire portfolio in all of our leases across our entire company we look at the rent versus income ratio.
And right now we're sitting at a medium rent as a percent of income of 22.9%.
That's a very healthy number.
I think we've got a lot of room to grow on that.
We automatically approve at the range of 30% to 35%.
So sitting at 22.9 the average of 17.7.
Those numbers have been fairly consistent and if you look across the market some of our high-priced market are actually low on this and California is always typically higher which has always been the case.
So we feel like we're nowhere near a danger zone where people can't afford continued higher rents for their lifestyle.
And though we don't really see any kind of near-term constraint.
And then David I can't help but think that some of the commentary I'm hearing on the disposition side makes me think back to 2006 2007 and that it feels like you're suggesting that a segment of the market may be mispricing risk here.
And I think back to what Sam and Richard did at Equity Office in selling the company and what Equity Residential did in terms of setting out a couple of billion of assets back in '06 and '07.
Is this starting to feel peak-ish to you? I mean I think you're saying it's feeling peak-ish to you valuation wise on the segment of assets that you're selling.
Should we be drawing these parallels back to '06 and '07? I don't think so frankly.
I think that much of what happened in '06 and '07 was very much debt-capital driven today I think what you're seeing is very fundamental driven.
And so I think that's just a much different picture.
I think that the buyers of the assets that we're selling are getting good leverage and good grades.
A good debt-rates and they're going to put some money into these units and I think we're going to get good returns on incremental capital and my guess is they'll get very decent cash-on-cash returns although on a more leveraged basis than we would operate.
And they'll get very acceptable IRRs given where their tenured treasury is today and where alternative yields are on alternative investments.
So I understand your question I just think it's -- I never want to say it's different because you got to be careful about that.
But I think much of what happens today is driven by fundamentals and much of what happened back then was driven by just a mass amount of debt capital available in the marketplace.
The next question is from David Harris of Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I've got a question on ATM.
You did what -- $150 million early in the first quarter and prior quarter you did what over $250 million? Should we think of you as being opportunistic price takers around your ATM usage? Or are you fine-tuning your activities on issuance through to the ATM with your activities on use of proceeds? Yes it's really a sources and uses question David.
Just by what's happening on the sales side of our business and we're generating a lot of cash.
So we don't really have much use for any ATM proceeds when we're sitting on the amount of cash we have and the cash that we expect to get from our disposition process over the next 30 to 60 days.
Inc.</strong> With the $250 million that you did in the fourth quarter David is that sort of signaling a limit to how much you'd feel comfortable doing in any quarter period in time? Or is that a lot of -- if there are no constraints? If you've used -- you've got use of the proceeds and the stock -- the bit for the stock is there you'd just keep issuing? It's Mark Parrell David.
I mean we have a limit everyday.
There's rules about how much you can issue using the ATM.
But if we needed to we could raise more than that if the market is stable and appropriate.
So really just not needing money.
We don't runoff to a magic number and need it.
We spoke on the last call about raising money into the ATM to fund these development deals and we had discussed the fixed land parcels bought during 2010 and that's really what the ATM activity was about.
It wasn't about a limitation of how much we can do in a particular quarter either practically or legally.
Inc.</strong> And then so just dovetailing that with your earlier comments about sales accelerating in the near term near the medium term.
I'm assuming ATM issuance is probably going to be pretty limited in that timeframe? I think one could take right away from our comments yes.
Inc.</strong> And then more general question on the portfolio.
If I think between Memorial Day and Labor Day which is I think the bookends of the classic summer-leasing season how much of the portfolio was sort of rolling in that period of time? Is 2/3 a reasonable number? We Memorial Day and Labor Day? It's probably more of 40%.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Alright and why is that could you smooth it out? Did I have an overinflated view of the number from the past? When we consider our primary leasing season it's bracketed here by Memorial Day and Labor Day.
Would you brag it differently at a higher percentage? No.
I mean when I sit here and look at the distribution of expirations let's just say it's relatively flat from November through March and then April is kind of the shoulder month.
And then May through -- really May through August are the peak months and then September and October become the other -- in other side of the shoulder month.
Inc.</strong> So just going back to your reservations about changing the guidance formally today if we think about you reporting in July on second quarter you're kind of pretty much halfway through that peak period? Yes.
With 30 and 60 days visibility in terms of renewals.
Inc.</strong> So by that time you'll have a much better handle and visibility as to your confidence level over operating performance? Well we have a -- as everyday goes by we will do that.
But we would expect come the end of July obviously with 7 months under our belts in 30 and 60-day visibility and as David said just with a percentage of transactions get ahead of us and we'd have a pretty good sense as to when we think the full year will produce and I think that we have over the past 2 or 3 years changed guidance at that time and have been pretty accurate.
The next question comes from Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just going back to Ross' question a little bit.
I mean things are going extremely well now in all your key market.
But the economic backdrop still doesn't feel that great.
So do you ever kind of worry that at some point you do start to see more price sensitivity from tenants? Or do you kind of get worried that the strong fundamental start to slow 12 to 18 months down the road? Well as we said before we don't operate our business based out of -- kind of a macro unknown assumption set.
We base our business based on what we see on the ground on our business everyday with our intelligence from our locals tell us and looked at our incredible operating platform can actually visually show us in terms of what's happening today what's happening in the recent past and more importantly the near-term predictive capability that we have.
And based on that we don't see any kind of headwinds or constraints.
Can it happen? Yes maybe.
But we'll know it probably within 45 to 60 90 days then we can react accordingly.
But we're not going to take a preemptive reaction try to temper things anticipating a slowdown anticipating resistance.
Our pricing philosophy is based on the willing seller and the willing buyer.
And right now the willing buyers are there and we're going to continue to pressure test at the right level until we have resistance.
Were not going to take a soft approach trying to avoid assistance we'll know it when we actually see it and then actually  [indiscernible] We ought to say that trees don't grow to the sky but right now with the occupancy levels we have with the democratic picture we see with the statistics that Fred shared with you about the income as opposed to rent as a percentage of income.
We see a lot of run rate not yet.
The next question comes from Rob Stevenson of Macquarie.
It's actually Nick Yulico calling for Rob.
Just 2 quick questions 1 where do you think you could price on secured debt today? It's Mark Parrell.
We could to a tenure on secured debt offering at probably around 4.6% which is about 1.3% above the current tenure which by historical standards is excellent? Just one other thing I just want to make sure I'm understanding this.
So -- I mean you have a fair amount of debt maturing this year and next year.
So is the plan then to actually deleverage a bit through these asset sales and is the asset sales actually being used as a way to sort of -- as a hedge against the rising cost of debt? Is that how to think of this or? I want to -- with the balance sheet up we do have refinanced REITs on the debt side as to rate and we do hedge that separately.
The activity on the asset side of the balance sheet to sell these interest rate sensitive assets then certainly you coordinate those but we are not selling assets to pay down debt at this point.
That's not our goal.
The next question comes from Haendel St.
Juste of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I'd like to go back to D.C.
for a minute.
I'm just trying to get a sense of how many assets there you think you have left to call? And how do you think about that market today versus others on a 12 24-month look forward? I guess I'll answer the first question and have Freddy answer the second.
I don't know off the top of my head Haendel but I will tell you that we do have an intention of continuing to sort of tighten the circle of our investments there and be more downtown and more sort of the Arlington Alexandria area.
We continue to have some older assets more of the outer kind of ring and our intention would be to address those.
I don't know off the top of my head exactly how much that represents today though.
This is Fred.
DC market especially in district and Northern Virginia it's continuing to get better and better.
We had a great first quarter and really building momentum from there as we enter into the second quarter.
So obviously this year it's going to be this fantastic.
We have a pretty low supply 2 900 units that will spread throughout the District and Virginia and some in suburban Maryland.
Going out the next 2012 and 2013 it's going to be a little more challenging 2012 we're going to see 7 000 units delivered into the market.
A lot of that in D.C.
a lot of it in Northern Virginia and a little bit in the key cities of Maryland.
But the job growth so far is still very very strong.
We've got 66 000 jobs 2.2% so the engine of government of defense of technology of business services of legal and all of the population services and retail service tourism everything is up and strong and getting better in those markets.
So the job growth is there which I think it will be for 2012.
I think 2012 even though we have 7 000 units coming in we'll be able to absorb those in fine fashion.
Because remember looking back last 2 years during the recession we delivered 7 000 units plus back in 2010 and 7 700 in 2009.
So I think we absorbed those during the recession in great fashion.
So I'm not worried about 2012 I think it will still be a good your.
2013 getting a little bit out there.
I think if the government slows hiring or slows spending so the procurement would decline so the job growth would soften a little bit.
And in the face of jammed up pipeline of supply we've got 10 500 units going to hit us in 2013 based on current pipeline that we've identified.
So 2013 you could see some softening there because of the supply and demand maybe going the other way.
But the next couple of years are going to continue to be strong in that market.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> A couple more.
Do you guys know today offhand how many of the assets in your portfolio could be characterized as student housing? And how should we should think about these assets within the context of your longer-term portfolio strategy? Well I guess I'll let Fred and David answer how many do they think are student.
We don't own any assets that would be considered student by the classification of common room with 4 or 5 bedrooms off of which with each bed being leased separately.
We do have properties in which we have different percentages of students in occupancy but it's conventional apartment product.
Berkeley.
Yes Berkeley.
We've got properties in Orlando near UCF...
University of Miami Cambridge...
Yes.
The railroad property is right across the street in University of Miami.
But these are conventional apartments that would have a high percentage perhaps of student occupancy.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I understand that.
And then the other piece about the longer-term fit in your portfolio? Is there a sense that with pretty attractive pricing on that side of the business that they could be for sale here? I guess we thought about it not so much by the tendency by just generally what do we think growth expectations might be in various assets.
I will tell you I toured some properties and we've got students.
And I'm just wondering whether or not they should be in the long-term strategy for us.
So my guess is that over time we may address those but there's no immediate sort of need to get up there after those today.
Occupancies are strong rents are going up there perhaps even more quickly than in our other products.
But we'll certainly be looking at those as we think about the strategy longer-term.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Again it's very widely held view that you have a top-quality franchise in many respects particularly in operations for instance.
But given that is your development capability where you'd like it to be and should acquiring a developer be part of your near-term plan here? Especially given the fierce competition on the acquisition side? Look I mean our ability to develop has nothing to do with the fact that we don't have a top-notch development team where we're understaffed.
We've got a terrific bunch of guys who delivered phenomenal product for us and we expect to continue to deliver phenomenal product for us.
So I think it's just more a question of at what percentage of our investment activity should development represent I would have no desire to go buy some development company and try and ramp that up to some extremely high number.
I think a 500 or so million dollar per annum sort of pipeline for us is just fine and if we ever wanted to take it up I assure you we could do it with the existing resources we have.
And I encourage you to go and look at what we built in Boston and what we built in New York and what we're building in Chelsea.
What their team has done in Seattle and in South Florida.
I mean we can do what we want to do and it's easily scalable if we want to increase the business.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Certainly and I was not suggesting you don't have a top-quality platform there just that perhaps it should be larger here today.
Again if we wanted to be larger we could scale it without any difficulty.
There appear to be no further questions.
Please continue with any other points you wish to raise sir.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
Well we appreciate your time today everyone and we look forward to seeing you in June.
Fred David Santee David Mark Parrell won't be there and we look forward to seeing you.
Thank you so much for your time today.
This concludes the Equity Residential First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Equity Residential Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Thursday July 28 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Mitch.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's second quarter 2011 results.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO;  Fred Tuomi our Executive Vice President of Property Management; and Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
David Santee our EVP of Property Operations is also here with us for the Q&amp;A.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn it over to David.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us on our call this morning.
As has been the case for quite a few quarters now despite disappointingly weak economic growth and anemic job growth apartment fundamentals remain very strong.
Across all of our markets we continue to experience strong occupancy and rising rates and increasing revenues which combined with great cost control and I mean great cost control produced same-store NOI growth of 7.4% for the first half of the year.
As a result and as we noted on last night's press release we raised our guidance for same-store revenue to 4.8% to 5.1% for the full year and net operating income to 7.8% from 7% to 8% for the same period.
With 7 months of the year behind us and our August rent rolls in hand combined with the visibility we have with outstanding renewal offers for September and even into October we've got a pretty good view as for the full year and how it will be different from our earlier expectations as we have asked Fred to take us through a little bit about where we stand today and how we're currently looking at the full year.
Fred? Thank you David.
As David mentioned we're now projecting NOI for the year to be at the top end of our guidance range that we've provided back in February.
This means that some or all of the key drivers of revenue that we've been discussing over the last few quarters meaning turnover occupancy base rents and renewal pricing are running better than our original expectations.
So now I'll provide an update on what we're seeing in these metrics and how this shapes our new guidance for the full year.
So starting with resident turnover coming into this year we expected turnover to reverse the course of the last couple of years and actually begin to increase again as our rent levels recovered and recording larger increases to our existing residents.
Turnover is in fact up this year but not as much as we originally thought.
So first we've lowered our turnover projections for the full year of 2011 to  57.2%.
And while this turnover projection is lower than our original expectation it does still represent an increase over 2010 of 50 basis points.
So turnover then leads to occupancy.
And with very little new supply in the system turnover held in check favorable demand indicators through this point of the leasing season and our occupancy has remained well above our original target levels.
We now expect occupancy to average 95.2% for the year which is like 40 basis point improvement over 2010 levels.
The Northeast markets continue to have very strong demand and very tight occupancies.
The Pacific Northwest including the Bay Area are now also experiencing very tight conditions and Southern California who's a laggard has finally stabilized above 95%.
So overall our portfolio this morning is 95.4% occupied and a very favorable left to lease in a forward-look position of 7.5%.
So that sets up our base pricing strategy.
And by base rent I mean the prices generated by NOL every night that we're achieving in the market for new leases on a net effective basis prior to the addition of any unit specific amenity premiums.
So base rent growth through this peak leasing season has been very encouraging so far especially compared to some tougher comps last year as we were recovering.
So while our prices are sure to moderate with the upcoming seasonal slowdown in Q4 the margin of growth over the 2010 pricing curve will be sustained.
And we expect 2011 base rent to now average 5.6% over the 2010 levels.
This is a 60 basis point better than our original projections primarily due to the strength of market such as Boston D.C.
Virginia and the San Francisco Bay area.
In fact Boston and the Bay Area are leading all of the markets right now in base rent growth with double-digit growth and no real slowing in sight.
So after 2 years of steady recovery in rent we recently passed the overall peak set in June 2008.
And while at some point the rate of growth is sure to moderate the basic factors of no supply steady and increasing demand and great customer demographic indicate continued strength in base rents through 2011 and well into 2012.
So this all sets up our renewal pricing.
With moderate turnover good strong occupancy base rent pricing power that gives us confidence as we set our forward renewal price quotation.
Renewal increases are running ahead of our expectations and we now forecast the average renewal increase to be 5.8% over the entire year for 2011.
And this is an 80 basis point improvement over what we originally projected and it's really evident across every one of our markets.
Now we expected renewal increases to begin to moderate as we've reached our tougher comp period this summer but this has not been the case.
Our unique renewal process continued fall in home buying and very strong customer loyalty continue to support impressive renewal gains.
So this leads to our guidance.
At this point we now know the outcome of the peak leasing season and we have extended visibility into the balance of the year.
But based on the favorable trends and the drivers of our core business we believe revenue growth for the full-year 2011 will be between 4.8% and 5.1%.
Thank you.
David? Thanks a lot Fred.
I'd want to address the transaction market for just a minute here and tell you that very little has changed at least on the acquisition side over the last 90 days.
It remains extremely competitive.
That's because there's simply an awful lot of capital out there chasing very little supply.
Cap rates on core products in our markets across the country generally have 4 handles.
And I'd tell you that the better assets in those markets are certainly trading in the low 4s.
And that's because investors continue to underwrite very strong rental revenue growth over the next several years.
And depending on the market we think values so absolute values are now back to peak levels in some markets and is still down as much as 10% in others.
So during the quarter we acquired 5 assets for $410 million at a weighted average cap rate of 5%.
We acquired assets in downtown L.A.
in Encino California; Seattle Washington; Arlington Virginia; and Washington D.C.
As I noticed it's extremely difficult to buy core assets in our markets today.
We are however currently working on several hundred million dollars of deals.
And we've got properties under contract today that includes 476 units in 3 properties in downtown L.A.
a couple of deals on the Peninsula in San Francisco one of which is a broken condo deal that would require a total lease up similar to what we've done in a couple of properties already this year.
And during the quarter we also continue to sell our non-core assets to reduce our overall exposure to our non-core markets.
Now we sold 26 assets for nearly $912 million for weighted average IRR of 11.7%.
The sold assets had an average age of 22 years and it included a 7 property 1 626 unit portfolio sale that was done to a single buyer for $286 million.
And all those deals were in the Metro D.C.
During the quarter we also sold 5 properties in Portland Oregon as we continue to exit that market.
Five in Northern Florida 3 in Phoenix 2 in suburban Atlanta and one each in suburban Boston one in Manchester New Hampshire one in California's Inland Empire and one in North Suburban Seattle.
So given the competition we're facing as we try to redeploy this capital this disposition activity has created a pretty significant cash balance which stands at nearly $800 million today.
Now selling assets in the 6s and reinvesting cash proceeds at next to nothing is a highly dilutive process.
And that activity as well as being more of a net seller this year than we originally projected as well as selling earlier in the year than we projected have all combined to make us modestly reduce our normalized FFO guidance for the year the midpoint of that guidance for the year.
And again that comes despite extremely strong same store net operating income growth that should come at the high end of our original guidance.
Well I'd tell you we're selling assets that simply do not fit into our longer-term plan.
These are assets that we think don't have the rent roll upside that we see in our core assets in our other core assets or they have immediate or pending capital needs that we don't think add value.
And these are assets that we can trade today for prices that we think represent pretty good value on a per pound basis.
We also think these are properties with values that are most at risk of rising interest rates of changes in GSE commitment to multi-family and growing capital needs.
So this activity is certainly more dilutive than we like but we expect that there will be more opportunities to buy good quality assets in our core markets in the near future and we'll be able to put that money to work soon.
We are already seeing an increase in deal flow and our sense of the market today is that there will be even more coming down the road.
So all that said we've changed our transaction guidance for the year to acquisitions of $1.15 billion and dispositions of $1.5 billion.
Now that level of acquisition activity will require nearly $600 million of additional acquisitions in the second half of the year.
We have $325 million that we've identified today but we will also need to find new deals to hit that goal.
On the disposition side to start $1.5 billion this year we have to sell only $326 million of additional property in the second half of the year.
And most of that is already identified and in process.
Now we've also changed our guidance as to the expected spread we expect to realize during the years as a result of all this activity.
And that's due primarily to the fact that cap rates have compressed more in our core markets than they have in our non-core ones.
And that expected spread is now closer to 150 basis points for the entire year.
Now because that spread to the first half of the year is 120 basis points basic arithmetic suggests that our activity in the second half of the year must produce a wider outcome.
And don't forget I said previously acquisition cap rates and the target markets are in the 4s the yields we're selling at today in our non-core markets are in the high 5s to low 7s.
And that's going to create a wider reinvestment spread in the second half of the year.
On the development side during the second quarter we are very pleased to complete the initial lease-ups of our development projects in Brooklyn in downtown Renton Washington and downtown Pasadena California.
Also during the quarter we acquired a land site in D.C.
It's on I Street which is right behind our 425 Mass Avenue property.
And we'll build 162 units there for about $57 million.
We expect a stabilized yield on rents today in the low 60s.
And lastly during the quarter we commenced construction on one new development deal that was our Sunrise Village property in Sunrise Florida that's adjacent to Simon's Sawgrass Mills property.
The 501 units $78 million total cost deal with projected yield on cost at current rents in the mid 7s.
And as I noted on our last call we are doing this with an institutional partner.
Now looking forward we now think that our starts for year could come in around $500 million to $600 million.
And this is more than we have suggested previously but it's now possible that some -- what we thought might be early 2012 starts could be moved into late 2011.
So in addition to the $93 million deal in downtown L.A.
that we started in the first quarter and the South Florida deal I just mentioned additional starts this year could include sites in Seattle; Alexandria Virginia; San Jose; and Pasadena.
Now over the past year we've secured over $1 billion of new development rights.
We've closed $485 million of those and we continue to work on another $590 million of secured rights in New York City in South Florida in Southern California in Seattle and due diligence will determine how much of those we take down.
And we also continue to pursue new opportunities across all of our markets some -- we have some executed NOIs and others we've submitted proposals that we hope will turn into NOIs and yields an estimated cost based on current rents all these development deals we're working on today are in the high 5 to the mid 6 ranges.
So I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's call.
This morning I will focus primarily on 2 topics guidance for the entire year and a little bit color on our new revolving credit facility and then on our balance sheet.
For the full year on the guidance side we have revised our ranges for our same store operating metrics revenues expenses and NOI and as David Neithercut described we've also revised our transaction assumptions in the fall as our normalized FFO range for the year.
I will give you a quick rundown of our new ranges and the main drivers of our guidance changers.
Our new same-store revenue guidance range is 4.8% to 5.1% versus our prior guidance range of 4% to 5%.
Fred has described the drivers behind our strong same-store revenue growth and improved guidance so move right along to expenses.
And on the expense side our new same-store expense range for the full year is 0 to up 1%.
The old range was an increase of 1% to 2%.
There really are 3 drivers on the expense side to this improvement in the expense guidance 2 up and one that's modestly down.
On-site payroll reductions in health insurance costs along with lower-than-expected salaries and overtime are producing some savings for us here.
We said in February that our on-site payroll will be up less than 1%.
We now see it was down about 2%.
And we have process and technology initiatives that we've discussed with you before in our field operations that continued to let us do more with fewer personnel.
Also on the positive or helpful side on utilities line item.
On the February call we said utilities would be up 3% to 3.5% this year versus 2010.
We now expect utilities to be up more like 2% to 2.5% with the favorable variance coming from lower-than-expected electric costs.
And on a slightly less favorable side property taxes our biggest single line item about 27% of operating expenses.
As you may recall from our prior calls growth in this line item has been muted.
I think we're all a little bit surprise at that given some of the fiscal issues local governments have.
It will be the case again this year that this line item will be at the lower end of expectations but at the higher end of the range we gave you back in February 2011.
So up about 1% year-over-year.
There's still a fair amount of uncertainty here between pending appeal activity and the tax bills or pre-bills that we should receive shortly so this number may still move around a little bit.
In 2012 or 2013 we would expect property taxes to rise more sharply as the sensors [ph] recognize the recent improvements in apartment value.
And just to sum it up on expenses.
I think we've done a tremendous job controlling expenses through the efforts of David Santee Fred Tuomi and their dedicated teams.
From 2009 to the present the company's compound average growth rate for expense growth has been only 1.3% almost half of the last 12 quarters have shown an actual reduction in same-store quarter-over-quarter operating expenses.
And while it is impossible for us to promise to maintain or better this result we do feel that our people and our processes give us a sustainable advantage in managing expense growth no matter what the economic climate with no compromise to quality or resident service.
The cumulative result of these changes in our revenue and expense guidance is that we now see NOI up 7% to 8% for the year versus our prior guidance of 5% to 7.5%.
Now I want to talk a little bit about normalized FFO guidance.
Our new range for the year is $2.40 per share to $2.45 per share.
And there's really 3 large variances here that I want to speak to.
Property NOI will be up about $0.07 over our February expectations $0.05 of that is same-store the rest is lease-ups.
On the transaction dilution side we expect about $0.10 of incremental dilution from our transaction activity.
And David has discussed the reasons for our accelerated pace of disposition activity in his remarks.
We really see that dilution is coming from 3 aspects of our transaction program.
First transaction timing.
So we're basically disposing off assets earlier and buying assets later in the year than our February guidance assumed.
We have now assumed that all of our remaining dispositions will occur in the third quarter and that all of our remaining acquisitions will occur in the fourth quarter.
We have also increased our reinvestment spread and the reinvestment spread again is the difference between the cap rate on the assets we are selling and the cap rate on the assets that we are acquiring from 1.25% to 1.5%.
And the third driver of transaction dilution is just having a larger net disposition program than we had suggested we would have back in February.
Back then we thought our disposition program would be about $250 million in net sales.
Now we expect transactions to be more of $350 million in net sales activity.
So all of this disposition activity has left us with around $800 million of cash on hand and that does include $10.31.
That cash together with our new line of credit which I'll discuss in a moment allows us to move the target date for our unsecured debt offering which was previously planned for this summer back into 2012.
However as always we will be opportunistic in accessing the debt market especially during this turbulent times.
And that gets to our third driver which is interest expense which we see is about $0.03 lower than we had expected.
We're going to have less outstanding debt than we thought on joint venture development deals.
So these are deals that have stabilized so that interest expense is expense not capitalized.
And so overall we'll have less interest expense there because we have paid off or expect to pay off loans on a few large development deals coincident with taking our partners out of those deals.
This is a marginally accretive short-term use of cash for us that we did not expect back in February.
Much of the remaining savings is due to postponing the planned summer 2011 debt offering into 2012.
Offsetting these positives we will incur about $7 million of expense relating to $350 million in interest rate hedges that we have in place to hedge the debt offering we had expected to do this summer.
These forward starting swaps start in July of 2011 so we are required to begin paying interest on them whether we've issued a new debt or not.
This $7 million payment increases interest expense and reduces normalized FFO.
In addition to the $7 million of additional interest expense by moving the debt issuance period associated with the hedges back by 6 month we have under the accounting rules incurred a $2.6 million noncash hedge ineffectiveness charge.
And we think about it this way.
The hedges anticipated that we would have new debt outstanding for a 10-year period that would have begun in July 2011 and ended in July 2021.
The company will now issue debt in early 2012 resulting in a life for the new debt this new 10-year debt instrument of January 2012 through January 2022.
This mismatch by 6 months is what creates the hedge ineffectiveness charge.
Other ineffectiveness charges are possible in the future.
This $2.6 million ineffectiveness charge does not impact normalized FFO.
The remaining reduction in normalized FFO guidance is mostly the result of lower interest income along with the dilutive impact of stock option.
And finally as you might expect our current guidance does not anticipate the use of the company's ATM stock issuance program.
And just a quick final note here on the balance sheet.
And our balance sheet is just in terrific shape.
And it gives us just tremendous flexibility and our strong credit metrics continue to improve as our operating business thrives.
On July 18 we announced that we are calling for redemption the $482.5 million outstanding of our 3.85% exchangeable senior notes which are due in 2026.
These are our convertible notes.
The redemption of these notes  has been planned since the beginning of the year and the impact has been included in the normalized FFO guidance we have given you for the year.
Just as a sidenote for every dollar that the company share price during this exchange period exceeds $61 the company will owe roughly $8 million to the convertible noteholders.
This excess amount is payable in cash or stock at the company's election and is not a charge to earnings or normalized FFO.
As we disclosed a couple of weeks ago and as you saw in last night's press release we have entered into a new $1.25 billion revolving credit facility.
This new facility with a group of 23 financial institutions both U.S.
and international matures in July 2014 subject to a one-year extension as the company's option.
Diversifying our bank group by type and strengthening our bank group was a big goal of ours and we think we've succeeded marvelously.
Pushing pricing is also an important goal.
With favorable demand and an improving bank market we have came to borrowing a spread at our current credit rating of LIBOR plus 1.15% along with a 0.2% annual facility fee paid on the entire line amount.
This is the lowest cost of any revolving credit facility closed in the last 2 years.
One of the company's unique credit strength that the bank group recognized is our massive unencumbered asset pool.
We have approximately $800 million in unencumbered NOI and about $13.8 billion in undepreciated book value of those unencumbered assets.
This produces an unencumbered debt yield which is the ratio of net operating income from unencumbered assets the amount of unsecured debt of over 15% which we think is an extremely strong number relative to our peers.
This very important debt statistic will approach 17% by year end.
We could not be more pleased with our bank group with our pricing and with this process.
So in sum the combination of being very liquid having a new longer-term line and having a strong balance sheet means added future flexibility to take advantage of investment opportunities.
I'll now turn the call back to Mitch for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Toti with FBR.
I just have 2 questions.
First David can you give us a little bit more detail on the cap rate range within the disposition that took place in the quarter at the high end and the low end? Well the cap rates have been in the low 5s on the -- but [ph]  the portfolio that we sold in the Metro D.C.
area and then in the low 7s away from there.
Okay great.
And then given that this seems to signal your view is that we are in a very attractive pricing environment potentially the peak pricing environment.
Why not sell more into that? Well I guess we're not calling kind of peaks.
We're just identifying assets Dave that we know we don't want to own long term.
And we're in the process of selling at values that we think are pretty good values.
And I guess as we exit markets there's only so much that you can sell in a market at any one time.
So we sold some properties in Portland.
We still have more properties to sell in Portland.
And you wouldn't want to bring all those to the market at the same time.
And that would be the same in Tampa and Jacksonville and other markets that we've identified for exit.
So we're managing the process the most appropriate way that we think that we can.
We also are trying to balance that with redeploying that capital.
I'm trying to find the right path.
So last year we were a net acquirer of assets.
This year will be a net seller of assets.
And then we'll continue into 2012 and see what that balance will be going forward.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just lastly have you considered other options with the proceeds in terms of potentially a return of capital what have you sort of tabled relative to reinvestment or distribution? Well we haven't tabled anything.
I mean we'll do what we think is the right thing by our shareholders as we move forward.
So it's premature to say what --  but what we'll do if it makes sense to distribute we will.
If we find an opportunity to invest then we will.
And I think we've been pretty good stewards of capital in the past and I expect us to be that going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Swaroop Yalla with Morgan Stanley.
Fred can you talk a little bit about the trend in new and renewal rents as you saw them in August September October? Yes in terms of renewal rent what we're seeing right now is July we finished up 6.3%.
And as we go forward into August we're quoting in the 7s and we expect to achieve in the low 6s.
And beyond that we're quoting in the mid 7s.
And maybe a couple of market will be a little bit stronger.
And we expect this to maintain in the low 6s in the going forward.
We have a little bit of a tougher comp period.
But so far it hasn't really slowed us down.
And in Q4 you'll have a little bit of softness due to the seasonal slowdown so you don't want to be wildly aggressive.
You have to maintain a good balance there but I still think the 6s [indiscernible]  Will be achievable perhaps a little bit better.
Okay.
So just going back to the guidance that -- assuming you achieve some of the renewals it just seems looking at the momentum in some of your markets I mean is the second half of the year just primarily because of the tougher comps? Or is there some other macro-factor which are affecting your view of the second half of the year? Just going by the momentum in some of your West Coast market I would have expected sort of third quarter sequential growth to be on par with second quarter and maybe a little slowdown in the fourth quarter.
Yes.
As we look forward into the balance of the year we still see we have very strong indicators.
I mean the renewal increases are good.
Occupancy should be fairly stable.
Although it will soften seasonally in Q4.
It always does probably it always will.
And then the rents over last year I think as I mentioned will maintain good healthy spread over that but we will see some softening of rents from the peak now as we get into Q4 that's the seasonal slowdown.
So that's to be expected.
And when you look at the numbers that I gave you for how we're going to achieve it this year when you look at the total net result of the revenue change you have to keep in mind that still in 2011 we have some leases in place that are either equal to our current rents or maybe a gain to lease situation.
Back in January I mentioned that we had at that point in time 20% of the leases to be in our rent roll in January were actually paying rents above market back then by 5%.
So that's kind of a constrainer or a governor on your overall growth.
You don't get these growth numbers immediately impacting the rent roll.
You have to burn off the existing legacy leases.
And that's happened but it's going to impact our numbers this year.
Right now in July we only have 3% of our people in our rent rolls today that are paying rents equal to or above our current street rents and it's only by $5.
So we're basically flat.
So we've burn through most of that and that will set us up great for next year.
And just to supplement that I mean we expect very strong sequential growth for the third quarter to the second.
I mean we're still talking about a number that -- to be somewhere in the range of 1.8% or so.
So in this number we just put up was an outstanding number and is one of the best sequential growth numbers we've ever had.
But the next quarter is not going to be a great laggard in that regard either.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And just lastly to touch upon Manhattan market given the negative press we're hearing on job cuts in financial services funds how you're seeing things on the ground and your ability to continue pushing these high single-digit renewals.
Yes.
I mean New York Manhattan in particular and the Gold Coast of Jersey just continue to motor on.
And you ask if we're seeing an evidence to that? The answer is no.
I would have to ask you all if you're seeing any evidence because we don't.
And I've asked this recently just a few days ago our managers there.
Have you heard any talk in any verifiable evidences any of our residents losing a job or getting a severance or worried about it.
And the answer is no resounding no.
To the contrary we're seeing stability in the financial sector and we see growth in the entertainment and tech sector.
So New York right now I mean we have very strong occupancy.
We're 96.2% 7% rest of lease rents are up almost 11% since the beginning of the year.
And we're getting very good renewal increases with virtually no push back or kind of real legitimate resistance to pricing.
So New York is still looking -- a great place to be.
Our next question comes from the line of Jana Galan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I was wondering if you could touch on supply and kind of what quarters do you expect it to impact maybe D.C.
Seattle and Northern California those kind of sound that they're being built out more so? This is Fred again.
Supply is really a good picture for 2011 and 2012.
For example some markets like Phoenix San Diego and Orange County have virtually no deliveries this year.
We have 800 units in Phoenix 500 in San Diego 300 in Orange County.
And looking next year we actually have goose eggs for Phoenix which is something we've never seen in any time in history of the valley there.
So it's still a very good supply situation 2011 and 2012.
This year on the higher end you are delivering 3 600 units still into the Virginia D.C.
markets but those are being absorbed very quickly and that's not an issue.
L.A.
still has deliveries of about 2 300 this year meaning 2011.
That has caused a little bit of friction there in certain markets such as San Fernando Valley Warner Center some areas of downtown.
Because L.A.
is not as robust  a market.
And then Atlanta still has --  2 000 units coming this year to digest.
And even though that seems high given the situation of Atlanta that's kind of an all-time historic low.
And then Seattle has 2 000 which is really no issue to Seattle.
Looking forward in 2012 and 2013 of the higher markets everybody knows we have a pipeline that's been building in D.C.
I mean D.C.
and Northern Virginia.
And 2012 we expect more than 7 000 maybe 7 500 units to come into the D.C.
market.
And for 2012 we're not too concerned about that.
We had very strong absorption even through the recession and that should continue into 2012.
Now D.C.
looking forward into 2013 and plus that could get a little sketchy.
Because there we see right now we've identified about 12 000 units or more in the pipeline more to come.
Some of these deals may get canceled or delayed but it's going to be a pretty healthy delivery in 2013 and 2014.
So if the government hiring and all the other great things going on in D.C.
continue we can absorb that.
If there's a slowdown then we're going to have a little bit of a supply demand mismatch for a couple of years there in '13 and '14.
South Florida is another one virtually nothing coming next year only 400 units.
So South Florida will I think have a great year next year.
But beyond that 2013 and 2014 there is a pipeline building.
There's lots of proposed developments including some in our schedule.
And it could be more than 10 000 units in the pipeline for '13 and '14 down there in South Florida.
L.A.
less of a concern.
Next year will be good.
And then as we look forward to '13 and '14 and maybe about 5 000 units of bestowed of [ph]  Highly localized.
Again more coming in Warner Center unfortunately and then the downtown close in areas.
And then Seattle is another one.
Again it's going to be great next year only 1 000 units.
But then in the pipeline we're looking forward to about 4 000 units plus in the downtown East side a little bit on North.
We've got some great projects there as well.
And I'm not too concerned about the Seattle.
So really it boils down to D.C.
in South Florida in '13 and '14 but between now and there it's all systems go.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob Stevenson with Macquarie.
Can you talk a little bit about what's going on in terms of your rents in your major markets versus the market rent.
I mean if turnover is basically flat and you're pushing rental rates 6% 7% and you're not seeing a big bump in turnover is it just the market rate the gap between you and the market that's preventing you from going 8% and 9% on renewals? Well pricing the base rent pricing through NOLs [ph] that sets up everything.
And we aren't really constrained.
The major impact of that is the competitive rent but we're not necessarily actually constrained by that.
We are running a margin above our comps right now but you can't be an extreme outlier in the market.
[indiscernible] correct based on the sensitivity of the market.
When you give a big rent increase the first thing people are going to do is they're going to be in shock.
They might come in and talk they might complain but then they're going to shop the market.
And when they shop the market they're going to see if that price is valid or not.
And we're seeing that they are validated vis-à-vis the comp.
And that's why they come back and they renew because it's a hassle to move and that's not generally satisfied.
So another indicator of that is people that tell us that again we're moving out because my rent is too expensive.
And if home buying has gone down the last couple of years we are seeing that on the relative mix the makeup of reasons for move out but that one's floating closer to the top change in job or change in life situation is always #1.
But move out because it's too expensive has moved up over the last several quarters but really not to an outrageous level.
In fact I'd be surprised if we didn't see some of that.
So I'm not sure if I answered your question specifically.
But all those factors come into play the supply the demand it's your comps it's their satisfaction level et cetera.
And I can just tell you that our goal in revenue is to optimize which is to hit the right points between occupancy turnover and rate.
And we're always trying to optimize those numbers.
Can you remind me how many units you have today that are not in the same-store portfolio? And sort of what the operating trends are there relative to the same-store portfolio sort of in line a little bit stronger a little bit weaker et cetera? So we have approximately 106 000 same-store quarter-over-quarter units.
The total unit count is about 120 000 units.
So the difference there 5 000 of that 15 000 are military units and that's just a different market altogether.
So call it 10 000 units in the non-same stores set.
It's hard to talk about those trends.
Those development deals tend to do very well for us.
Those tend to be in the markets that David described the lease-ups occurring in.
Those also include the big Vantage deal in San Diego the 425 Mass Avenue deal in D.C.
so I suggest to you that those deal will do [ph]  very well.
I'm not sure if they're going to move on their own the entire mix of the company just because it is such a substantial same-store set at 105 000 same store units versus the -- call it 15 000 less the military housing that we actually have.
Okay.
And then last question David in terms of presale deals out there is there an opportunity today to sort of fund developers looking to get back in the game and take those out in your core markets to even ramp up your development over and above what you would normally do with less risk to the company? Well we're trying to do that Rob and I would hope in the next quarter or 2 [indiscernible] would say that we've done that successfully.
But we had got numerous conversations taking place with owners of existing land to see if there's not some way by which we can provide them with the bankable takeout upon completion of construction and do some sort of presale.
And that's a much more efficient way for us to deal with our disposition activity 12 24 36 months down the road.
And we'd like to do that.
And I will tell you that anyone who's got a good piece of dirt in one of our core markets.
We've got an awful lot of people trying to have those same conversation with them right now.
But we are having as I said numerous conversations with people hoping to do that and I'd be disappointed if we didn't do one or 2 in the next 90 days to 6 months.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
David if you look at acquisitions and you talked about another $600 million perhaps by year end.
Can you also talk about portfolio transactions.
I know there was a report that you guys might be looking at a portfolio in the Silicon Valley area but can you give us some sense of -- are your seeing better pricing for larger transactions? Well anything that we're looking at that you might consider to be a portfolio is still relatively small.
So I'm not so sure that it would get to a level where there may be some kind of discount for something of size.
And anything that might be a portfolio just in terms of absolute dollars is just not that much.
So everything we're looking at today is pretty competitive across all the markets.
They said we've got $325 million of the balance that we hope to do this year already tied up and in various stages of due diligence then we'll have to identify some new opportunities.
And we are working on lots of things at all times.
But no we're not seeing anything of real size at the present time.
And can you just remind us as well the sort of your underwriting assumptions versus what you're seeing in the private market? How your assumptions compare for the 5% yields? And whether do you expect those to trend over the next couple of years? Well I can tell you that on the things that we've acquired most recently that have been acquired in that 5-or-so percent weighted average cap rate for first and the second quarter we think in a couple of years we will be in the high 5s and even in one of them hopefully in the 7s because we're going to be doing some significant rehab work to that transaction.
But if we can achieve the same kind of rental growth that we have over the past 6 to 12 months kind of going forward 5% yield will become high 5s and 6s reasonably soon.
Okay.
And if you think about asset sales I guess beyond the $1.5 billion that you have planned for this year can you talk about any markets that you plan to exit or even non-core assets in some your top markets can you give us a sense of what remains perhaps after this disposition this year? Well I guess I've said on the last call we still have $1 billion or $2 billion of assets that we think we'd like to sell.
Again I don't think that's there's necessarily [ph]  an urgency in those.
And I would say that as a company of our size we will always in every year have assets that for various reasons that we think we want to sell.
But we're still working on some markets in Northern Florida.
And again we'll exit Portland soon.
And we're selling some properties I guess in Phoenix and Atlanta.
But there's probably still $1 billion to $2 billion worth of stuff that we've identified that we're fairly confident we don't want to own in the medium term.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Just along the lines of Jay's last question.
David you've been pretty focused on upgrading the quality of your portfolio for quite some time.
It's been a process that I'm sure it's been going through for the better part of the decade.
Just curious whether there's some sort of level of internal target that you have for a quality core product versus the non-core B product.
And if there's any goals around where you'd your average rent average age of the portfolio to be et cetera? billion No.
I think it's less of the goal in terms of average rent or quality of asset and more of the markets we want to have the capital invested in.
Because even in core markets we'll have B quality product.
In fact we bought properties one could argue lately a C quality products which we intend to bring up to a B quality.
It's not an average rental rate.
It's not an average of asset quality.
It's what markets do we want to be in what markets do we believe will provide the best total returns going forward.
And within that marketplace you might find us in lots of different assets and of a different quality and of different price points.
Got you that makes sense.
And you mentioned in your remarks some of the statistics about cap rates being in the low 4s being I guess in the mid-4s or maybe not as a quality product and our buyers were factoring generally a very strong level of rent growth.
The first question is just whether you think that level of rent growth that has been underwritten is reasonable? And second whether you have some sense of what total returns these buyers are underwriting? Well I guess we think that they're underwriting -- the people that we're competing with for product probably 7 handle IRRs and we're still trying to achieve.
And I think we will achieve IRRs with 8 handles.
But I think of course depending on the market people are underwriting 6 if not more percent of rental growth over the next couple of years before they begin to moderate those expectations.
Okay.
And just one last question.
Obviously long-term rates have stayed pretty low now for quite some time.
But if they were to move up 50 to 100 basis points do think that low 4 cap rate valuation is sustainable from here? Well I think that valuations are certainly impacted by interest rates.
I think the better quality product that we own and that we've been acquiring is less susceptible than the lesser quality non-core assets that we've been selling that we believe are much more subject to a leveraged bid and therefore would be much more impacted by changes in interest rates.
But if increasing interest rates also come as a result of economic expansion then we think our top line's going to grow and that doesn't necessarily mean the value of our assets will go down.
David it's Mike Bilerman speaking.
Just a question the expense side you've opened up in your comments saying "You had great and I mean great expense control." And it really sounds like you've been able to move a lot of stuff on line leveraging technology and really reducing STEs at the asset level.
I was just curious how real time of a reaction are you getting from the tenant base given the fact that multifamily it is a touch-and-feel type of business at the asset has it impacted anything on the customer survey side? And could there be the potential that you may have to reengage and put more employees back at the asset level to maintain the higher service level that's required on the assets in your portfolio that you've driven towards? This is David Santee.
I think you're referencing kind of some of our portfolios we took off of our property.
When you stand back and look at that that really ended up only impacting probably 10% of our communities.
And really all we did there was rightsize properties relative to the efficiencies that we've created through technology.
But when you look at -- your other question about reengaging we are super focused right now on continuing to redevelop our resident portal.
Most recently we've seen record highs on our online payments well over $100 million a month electronically.
And what we see are our residents engaging each other.
We are building a community residents reaching out to other residents.
So we're focused right now on continued development of applications or other tools that residents can use to become more engaged within their community.
Not necessarily with us but with other residents because if your friends live in your building you're less likely to move.
And already we've seen a pretty dramatic improvement in the length of stay of many of our residents.
I guess Mike I would tell you that I think it's a very good question.
It's certainly something one needs to keep an eye on.
But I can tell you that across our property management functions both those that are directly involve in property management directly and David's team.
And I would tell you for Fred and David as well their compensation structure includes not simply how we've done in terms of raising revenue and dealing with our expenses but also customer loyalty scores.
So there's a check and balance in the -- evaluation structure here that make sure that we're not raising revenue and cutting expenses at the cost of reduced customer loyalty scores.
And that is not an under-weighted component relative to the others that is a strongly weighted component relative to the others.
And again that's Fred David and their teams all the way down.
This is Fred.
I would like to add 2 other quick things to that.
One is that our Resident surveys tell us that our residents are really for the highest degree of value on online services.
They told us that they wanted to communicate with us electronically to do their lease administration check balances and their service request and their payments are better.
So we thought early on really a few years ago a significant increase in resident survey responses saying that they wanted this technology.
And as David Santee referred to is the STEs really didn't go down dramatically but we reshaped the existing STE [ph] property.
Meaning that we took the administrative functions off the back office things off of the site people put those in the hands of specialists off-site that the residents never really saw or could appreciate and we redeployed those things headcount with customer service people at a lower comp level but in a closer touch to the resident.
And that's why when you look at your on-site cost about 1/3 of the OpEx which is down about 3%.
Part of that shift is I guess going to corporate G&amp;As you're moving those expenses there.
Property management.
Yes not corporate G&amp;A but property management expenses.
Our next question comes from the line of Derek Bower with UBS Securities.
It's Ross Nussbaum here with Derek.
I have 2 questions.
First will the disposition activity exceeding acquisitions result in a need for any form of a special dividends from a [indiscernible] perspective? As of current levels no.
Okay.
Second question I'm looking back over the last decade looks like the peak revenue growth for the company was right in the 6% ballpark in any given quarter and it looks like you're going to be pushing toward that threshold in the back half of this year perhaps.
What do think the likelihood is that you can push past that as we look ahead into next year? Or is 6% about what you can do? And it sounds like from the renewals that are going out for July August September you're sort of in or slightly above that ballpark and it's holding folding there.
Well I'll let Fred talk about where we think we can go from here because that's a function of income et cetera.
But Fred did note in his remarks that we're just kind of back at peak rent.
So rents went down and we're just now recovering where we were.
So that's one thing to keep in mind.
But from here going forward just rent as a percentage of income et cetera.
Fred? Yes I mean we're going to go for all the gusto that we can get here but who knows how high we can take it next year.
We're not really going to talk about next year numbers but you can tell from the momentum that we're building and the information I gave you earlier that things are looking good for a set up into 2012 especially the fact that our gains of lease [ph]  Or the ones that equal current pricing is pretty much burned off.
So now we'll be in an overall kind of cross lease [ph]  Situation.
But the other factor is all -- I've heard this question often especially in neighboring [ph]  -- a couple of months ago how can these people afford more rent gains [ph]? Aren't you going to hit the wall where people who just can't pay the rent? And we look at the rent versus income ratio of our residents.
And back in January the average rent as a percent of income was 17.7%.
And today it's 17.6%.
It actually improved a little bit.
In fact our average income in the rent roll back in January.
Today is up 4% and the rents are up 3.2%.
So that's a healthy level.
17% 18% is very healthy.
20% 22% is healthy.
We quantify up to 30% without additional deposits.
So I don't see any kind of in the near-term cap on people's ability to pay especially in the markets that we're in and the type of products that we're providing.
I mean New York is one of the most expensive places to live where we have the lowest rent-to-income ratio.
it's only 14.5%.
And Southern California are the high ones in the low 20s.
But it traditionally has always cost more for housing in Southern California.
So no one can really say how high we can take this.
We'll take it to the highest level we can but right now given the supply picture for the next 18 months to 24 months the demand picture which is stable even though with the low job creation maybe this morning's report about the unemployment picture is encouraging.
And then the demographics in our portfolio mix it's pretty compelling for continued good results.
I guess I'd go back to Fred's comment earlier.
Ross we talked about we see an increase of people moving out and they can't afford rent.
But we are not seeing any problem with traffic backfilling that of potential residents who can pay the rent.
Last question and I think I know the answer to this but I'm curious David for your thoughts there's been some talk recently about the government considering renting out some of the foreclosed homes.
And at first I thought you'd say "Okay that's a good idea." But then on the second thought is who the heck is going to manage that program for them? And I would think that your name would come to the top of the list but I'm not so sure you would even consider doing that.
Can you give us some thoughts on that topic? Fred and David are so excited about that opportunity.
Even [indiscernible] right now.
I think that we've experienced a good deal of success over the past handful of years and I think that's because we've had a pretty specific narrow focus in what we're doing.
And I'm not sure that I'd allow us or these guys would allow us to be distracted from that.
Do you think anybody is capable of managing such a problem or such a portfolio if the government tries to go that route? Can someone? I suppose.
I mean what will the cost per revenue dollar be to actually do that? I don't know but I think it would not be the way that we're running our properties today as a percentage of the revenue dollar.
Do you think there is any realistic probability that that could occur? I can't speak to that.
I don't know.
I mean I do know that at the GSEs [ph] there was talk about maybe doing something like that.
Again how that gets run how that gets leased how you manage that how you deal with CapEx every single unit has got 4 exterior walls a roof blacktop and landscaping.
That is not a recipe for great rental opportunity.
So I don't know how you do that.
That's what I thought you'd say.
It may be a good way to inventory product and we're seeing a de minimis yield while it's in inventory while your waiting for some kind of recovery in absolute volume.
I just think from pure operating standpoint I think it's a nightmare.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> David a question you had mentioned to an earlier question response that you weren't seeing any portfolios of size out there just sort of curious given some of the news reports about Archstone potentially selling either assets or potentially markets just curious if that's more just newspaper chat? Or if the stuff that they're marketing is not product that would be of interest to you guys? I'd say there's not much I can talk about Archstone.
So I'll just --  I'll have you go to your next question.
L.P.</strong> On the debt hedge sort of curious how much -- as you guys planned your debt offering for this summer just curious how much of that offering was hedged.
And where I am approaching it from is you guys have obviously been impacted by delaying an offering I'm thinking back to another company that entered a hedge and rates changed and the hedge worked against them.
So I'm just sort of curious as you plan your hedging and your offerings do you hedge the whole amount that you plan to offer in the debt? Or is it a portion? Therefore you have some flexibility in there.
Alex it's Mark Parell.
It's a terrific theoretical conversation because we do think about this as how much debt is coming due in an entire calendar year which for us in this calendar was give or take $1 billion that we thought we would refinance and we hedged about $350 million of it.
So it generally will hedge somewhere between 40% and 50% of what we think will come due.
We don't pretend we know what interest rates are exactly going to do but we look at our P&amp;L and we look at our balance sheet and we say can we manage our single biggest expense item and it is interest expense? If I can keep that number lower next year than it otherwise would have been.
So that's rolling off had a higher rate and the new debt that's going on and extend duration appropriately as we buy assets that have longer lives.
That's kind of the goal.
The debt thought processes is kind of integrated with the investment strategy.
So I tell you we hedged give or take half of what we expect to issue in the calendar year.
In our guidance specifically we thought we're going to do a $400 million debt deal give or take July or August 1 2011 that we now placed in our own minds in January 2012.
So that's what impacted guidance.
But our theoretical construct is we hedge about half.
L.P.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just finally with all the talks about the AAA rating of the government just sort of curious as you talk to your GSE contacts has there been any change in GSE pricing? Have investors who buy who would rebuy the GSE debt that multifamily would fill have they changed any of their desired returns or so far it's been pretty muted? We haven't seen any change in that.
We haven't seen any issues in the production line over at Fannie or Freddie.
So we haven't seen that manifest itself yet Alex.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
The $325 million of identified acquisition is that the 3 in L.A.
and 2 in San Francisco? Or is there more? That includes those and there's more.
There's a South Florida deal in there and some other things that are kind of maybes.
Okay.
What would you identify to be your down costs? Because when I look at -- your new leases are still not growing as fast as your renewals if I'm hearing you right.
So you're not kind of getting compensated for the times when people do vacate.
So I'm curious what your downtime cost would be when you think of the cost to upkeep the unit and also the vacant period of time.
This is David Santee.
Our average vacate day is about 28 days.
Does that answer your question? Yes I guess.
And so then it would be the average rent roughly plus some CapEx? Very minimal CapEx.
Okay.
And I just have one more question and it has to do with New York City.
And I mean it as a serious question so just hear me out.
You said that things are kind of going well there and better than you expected but there's been a new thing in New York right? We have legalized gay marriage.
And I'm curious if you see any demand to your space from people moving in New York to get married or any rainbow-colored flags from the terraces going on? Or you're not feeling that yet? No evidence of that.
No reports of that yet.
That's an interesting concept.
And I can see that that can be the case.
And there will be great residence to welcome so we'll see what happens.
Okay but again there's no way to track that because that would be a difficult question to ask I guess.
Yes it's very difficult.
So that would be purely anecdotal observation and that one has not bubbled up to the surface yet.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew McCulloch with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.</strong> Just to ask a previous question maybe a little differently when you're looking to recycle capital and you're analyzing that reinvestment spread that you now thought you want to buy and what you want to sell how wide is that long-term NOI growth profile between those 2 buckets in your opinion? And I guess essentially what I'm asking is there a target cap rate spread in mind that you guys have? Would you either get more or less aggressive on that capital recycling front? Yes I guess I'll tell you Andy that we look at disposition IRRs we're selling an acquisition IRRs we're buying.
And we think that we're on leverage.
So we think we're selling somewhere maybe in the 7s or low 7s and buying 6s when one -- and buying 8s rather when one is honest with what the CapEx needs of the assets that we're selling.
So it's not simply a first-year delta on yield but it's a longer-term total return calculations.
And as we exit markets when we make decisions to exit markets we kind of go through that process.
It's not --  we're not looking at every single asset.
We're getting now to the point now where we got 2 properties in Portland Oregon.
And we'll end up selling them.
So I'm not quite sure we're going to worry about necessarily about what the absolute cap rate is.
It's time to complete that exit and we'll realize a lot of benefits on the property management side.
And we haven't had the total exit there.
So again it's not simply first-year kind of yields but it's a longer term decision.
Inc.</strong> On the assets your selling how different do you think the buyer's CapEx assumptions are versus what you think the real CapEx needs are going to be for those assets? Well one never knows.
We know that when they come back and they try and retrade based upon what they think CapEx needs are.
But one never knows what they might identify what they really will actually spend or what they claim they're going to spend.
We also think that generally the insurance costs will go up.
Generally we think that their insurance costs are not the same as ours and will likely go up.
And I think I mentioned on the call last time when we think we're selling some cap rate [ph] we think our buyers are probably buying something that might even be 50 basis points lower than their yield because of insurance because of real estate taxes et cetera.
But we don't know really what CapEx dollars they'll actually spend.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Just one other quick question.
It looks like you've bumped up the expected stabilization for Vantage Pointe I think by 2 quarters.
can you talk a little bit about what's going on there? Yes.
It's Fred.
There's a lot of demand a lot of leasing and a lot of new [ph] leases.
That product just kind of sat there in limbo as a for sale product.
And I'll tell you once we got in there and understood it positioned it marketed it all online it's just has been gangbusters demand.
We're just way ahead of our expectations.
And frankly when we did underwriting that one I was a little concern about the velocity leasing velocity in the early months that I actually took them down a little bit on the margin and they prove me wrong and they do those numbers.
So we're very happy with the demand there.
And this is another example of people didn't want to buy that product but it's a beautiful asset and a great location in an exciting market and they're certainly willing to rent that lifestyle.
Inc.</strong> But when do you think stabilized yields going to come out once it's fixed up? I don't know offhand where we thought we were probably in the 7s it's a guess maybe original underwriting and again like 425 Mass we'll exceed that.
I wouldn't be surprised if we'd be in the 8s.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Bragg with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
First on Fred's answer to Rob's question earlier what is your margin above your comps? And how has that relationship turned it over the last few years? You seem to be early to the game in terms of pushing rents.
So it would be helpful to get a little more insight on that.
Yes it's Fred.
Overall enterprise level and this can change market-to-market but our overall top level of our rent we're pretty much equal to the comps coming into this year.
And stayed that way through the slower Q1 where you don't have enough transactions to really fuel rent growth there.
But once we saw lift off in the leasing season which should be late April early May if we saw separation.
And actually the gap is at its widest point right now.
So it's one gauge.
It's certainly not the most important one that's just something relative we look at.
We certainly don't like to see it going the other way but from our competitive sets that we logged into NOL it's telling us that right here in the moment we like what we see because we feel like we're on the more aggressive side and we're riding the top end of the pricing curve.
Got it.
And about how wide is that gap? About 1/4 of an inch.
It's more like 3/8.
All right I'll just go on that one.
And then could you just talk about the residents who came in during 2009 at highly discounted rents versus perhaps the rest of your tenant base which would be closer to current street rents.
And can you talk about the renewal increases that you've achieved this year on that group that came in '09 versus the rest of the tenant base? And any notable differences in terms of turnover and also income levels of that group that came in at that time versus perhaps new tenants coming in today? First of all the -- kind of those legacy leases that people in their -- throughout this whole process as I said earlier the gain to lease situation is pretty much gone.
We're basically flat now.
A couple of market such as Phoenix South Florida and L.A.
we still have some more exposure to that but it working it's way through the system.
Now the -- it's from 2 components.
One is rents go up and the other one people either renew to those street rents or they do in fact move out then we have to replace them.
In terms of our renewal strategy through the downturn we learned that consumer behavior is very interesting that a lot of people would take flat to down 1% while market rents were going down 6% 8% 10% 12% 20%.
So it's no different now.
So even though they're been paying rents that were higher and now maybe equal to or in some cases maybe even much higher than current street.
What we're doing now is we're still offering a slight increase.
It may not be a 6% increase but we'll offer an increase what we call a minimum increase.
And in some cases we achieved those.
Other cases we're willing to negotiate down to flat okay? So depending on a lot of situation the aspect of that particular market that property that unit type and on their personal situation exactly so far.
The propensity to stay increases with residency.
So those cohorts that went 3 years 4 years 5 years they get very sticky.
They continue to stay so we know that that's a kind of potential there.
And that we have not seen a change in that.
And as David Santee mentioned earlier our length of stay has increased in the last year by about 3 months I believe.
So -- and that's the loyal customer base that continues to stay.
In terms of their income level versus average I don't have that information handy.
Yes.
If you want to go back 2009 so last year in 2010 those residents that have been with us 12 to 24 months was 18%.
When you take that snapshot this time -- same time this year that percentage of 12- to 24-month residents jumps all the way up to 24%.
So we have a significant loyal group of residents that continue to stay with us regardless of the increase.
That's helpful.
Last question just on the acquisition activity you seem to be making a noticeable shift towards West Coast opportunities this year as compared to last.
Can you talk about your outlook for asset values on the West Coast versus the East Coast? Well our activity is just a function of the opportunities we see.
So I can't tell you that last year we were focused on the East Coast and this year we're focused on the West Coast.
We're focused where we find the opportunities.
And last year the opportunities were in D.C.
and we hit it pretty hard with 425 mass and our deals in Arlington and made a lot of great acquisitions.
There was little product available a year ago in Southern California.
This year we're seeing more.
And so we just happen to be more active there.
But we've got guys in every region that are actively looking for product and in any given point in time there might be more opportunity in one over another and it happens to be in Southern California now.
And Southern California's kind of been a laggard.
It's been -- slow to turn.
We think long-term it's a great market.
And we think that the assets that we've acquired in downtown L.A.
will do -- will do very well for us.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> David you talked about accelerating development starts here in the second half.
What are the pro forma yields on that? And what spread do you need for -- do you need on development relative to acquisitions right now? What's the premium? I just want to make it clear the acceleration of the development.
So we've talk about starting $400 million to $500 million this year.
And I think that number now may be $500 million or $600 million.
And all that means is some deals we thought might be first quarter 2012 are now going to be fourth quarter 2011.
So it's not that we've decided to not mothball something and get at it.
It's just the timing of the stuff that we're working on.
And the deals that we have in the pipeline the land deals that we bought with the very aggressive buyers a year ago we think will be in the 7s.
And in fact it's probably up now because I know of those are our current rents at that time.
We all know that rents have gone up considerably since then.
New land deals today we're looking at mid-5s to low 6s probably.
I will tell you that we have lost some land deals to people that we think were taking development yields in the 4s or low 5s.
And I will tell you that we have always looked at getting 100 150 basis points or so kind of spread over acquisition yields if we can but there are certain time in the market where there's nothing to buy.
So that kind of spread is irrelevant.
But I will tell you that it's not simply in our minds the spread to acquisition yields.
We also think that there's some kind of a minimum to what one ought to get to become properly compensated for the construction risks.
So if acquisition yields go to 2.5 that doesn't mean that we're building a 3.5.
We think there's some kind of minimum return expectations that one ought to have.
And we've lost a lot of the land opportunities over the last 6 months.
We've been a bridesmaid an awful high a number of times.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Second question relates to your comments about the spreads widening from 125 to 150 basis points.
Are you seeing that -- are you seeing -- and you're talking about demand in your primary markets.
Are you seeing demand just given the pricing in the primary markets starting to shift to maybe some of the secondary markets? Well yes.
We've seen that for a while.
And that's why we have been selling the assets that we've been selling that we think are pretty good prices.
So yes I think as soon as it gets very very competitive kind of buying core products core markets capital will find its way into higher yields in other markets.
And they'll be willing to take a little but more risk at little less yield.
And we've certainly seen that.
I think that's the case with the portfolio we sold in the Metro D.C.
area.
And I think that that's the one of the reasons we're getting what we think is pretty good pricing on our Portland asset in Tampa in Jacksonville et cetera.
So certainly if capital can't get what it wants in the core assets and higher barrier markets it will migrate its way in other markets and we're taking advantage of that.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And finally where is pricing -- I mean where are spreads right now? Where could you go out and issue unsecured today? Sure.
So assume a 10-year rate of 3% Mike.
Then you add to that about a 1.6% spread I'd say give or take call it a 460 10-year unsecured.
And I think we're an 1/8 to 1/4 wide of that if we did a secured deal right now.
So unsecured pricing like I think we mentioned on the call just before this was -- has been better unsecured than secured for a while now.
Our next question comes from the line of Gautam Garg with Crédit Suisse.
A macro question are there any markets where you see the rent versus buy argument beginning to switch? And if yes what kind of impact are you seeing on your portfolio? Yes.
This is Fred.
Not really.
The home purchasing as I mentioned earlier continues to go down.
I mean this quarter second quarter versus second quarter of last year so at the same point in the season we do not have a single market where the home purchasing has increased.
They all continue to fall.
And when I look at the -- in terms of affordability some of the commodity markets for housing such as Orlando Atlanta Phoenix they continue to go down.
They're just not buying even at almost any price.
So it almost doesn't matter what the rent versus buy ratio is in theory.
In practice people are not buying homes in the commodity markets or in the really -- any market.
It continues to go down.
It's down 270 basis point quarter-over-quarter this second quarter.
And we don't see any kind of beginning of a trend of that going up.
Yes.
Not for a minute do we think we don't have residents in our properties that are ultimately want to be home buyers.
And at some point in time when they're willing to make that decision -- that's not simply an economic decision.
It's a lifestyle decision as well.
So we are looking at that.
I'll tell you a lot of those homes that might be value homes are sort of in the exurbs of where we operate.
That's why I think it really is as much as a lifestyle decision as it's an economic decision.
And I think when people exercise that decision to go do that I think that would be at point in the economy at a time when there's job growth where there'll be more than ample traffic to backfill those people who do decide to leave us and go buy a single family home.
Our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick question in regards to the cap rate spread and its -- the guidance revision.
With it widening out I mean if I'm understanding it correctly that means you're expecting more dilution from acquisitions and disposition activity in the second quarter.
I'm just wondering with that backdrop what the rationale is to continue with the amount of acquisition and disposition activity you're talking about.
Well again this is not simply an earnings process.
This is a ultimate total return in value creation process.
And if we think that we can sell assets today that are at risk to interest rates or risk to GSE financing or risk to capital needs and sell them at the prices that we're seeing in the marketplace today we think long term that's the right thing to do.
I don't think we'd be selling assets today that at call the 6.5% yield if we thought that we could sell it at 6.5% yield 2 years from now.
We might not be doing that.
So we think that those valuations these are good.
We know we don't want to own these assets long term.
And we think that those values are potentially at risk.
And so we think it is the right thing to do notwithstanding what the amount of immediate first year dilution might be.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Could you talk a little bit about the IRRs that you're currently underwriting both acquisitions and dispositions too? Well as I said earlier I think the disposition IRRs that we're selling we think are in the 7s and the IRRs that we're underwriting are in the 8s.
And I'll tell you that we make sure that our assumptions about residual value are not outlandish.
We make sure that we understand what goes on price per pound or price per unit basis and what the compound average growth rate would be for a net 10-year hold period.
But again we think we're buying better long-term IRRs than what we're selling.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just a quick question occupancy at the end of the quarter was what? 94.3.
Yes I think it was 95.3.
95.3 95.4.
95.3 and today it's 95.4.
Inc.</strong> And that's for the total portfolio? Yes that's same store.
Inc.</strong> What about for the total portfolio? Not really relevant if you have at least that [indiscernible].
So that's stabilized portfolio...
Stabilize we're 95.4 this morning.
As I said earlier currency factor is at this point leasing fees and we have a lot of transactions coming through the system.
We're only 7.5% less the leases this morning.
At that's a forward indicator of exposure which is very healthy.
Typically you might see that closer to 800 at this point in the cycle.
And our final question comes from the line Haendel St.
Juste with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Just a couple of quick ones here.
David not to beat the dead horse but how confident are you that you'll be able to meet your acquisition target this year especially given the still fierce competition for high-quality assets? And would you be willing to lower your cap rate IRR minimum target threshold to get there? I will tell you that we don't do that to meet "goals." I don't sit here and say $1.51 billion of acquisitions and we'll do whatever it takes to meet that goal.
What we try and tell you is the assumptions that are embedded in our guidance.
And if we can't find anything good to buy we won't I assure you.
That's merely just the assumptions that have been baked into the guidance that Mark and his team have prepared for you.
And as I said $325 million has been identified and we're working on it.
And then the rest is yet to be seen.
I'll tell you every year we expect there to be opportunities late in the year.
I'll be honest with you and tell you I thought that last year and we didn't see any.
But our guys out there in the field are saying that the brokers are giving them notice that they're working on a lot of potential transactions that they would expect to be bringing to the market in the short term and in the near term.
And we'll have an opportunity to look at those.
I'll also tell you that it's very possible something that we've identified to close this year could close in January of next year.
That could just be pushed from one year to the next.
So again these are just sort of guidelines and the assumptions we give you and they don't sit around and worry about whether or not we actually make that goal and do stupid things to make sure we don't.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then on the acquisition deal that you've missed lately how much lower are you in terms of pricing either on a cap rate or a percentage of value to the winning bids? Well I guess I'd probably tell you in some deals we might be right in there.
And have just missed by a little bit.
And I also know there are other things we've lost where we were 10% off.
I'll say we're just -- we get price talk whisper talk about where things are going.
And we'll just abandon working on them knowing that we won't get close to those levels.
So we think that there've been deals trading with 3-handle cap rates and we had just go -- we'll find something else to work on.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
McKenna for any closing statements.
David Neithercut here.
Thank you all for your time today.
We appreciated it.
And I'm sure we'll see many of you in September.
Have a great summer.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Equity Residential Second Quarter Earnings Conference call.
You may now disconnect and thank you for using ACT Conferencing.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Thursday October 27 2011.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Marty McKenna Vice President Investor Relations.
Go ahead sir.
Thanks Jo.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's Third Quarter 2011 Results.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO;  David Santee our EVP of Property Operations; and Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
Fred Tuomi our EVP of Property Management is also here with us for the Q&amp;A.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn the call over to David.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our call today.
We're obviously very pleased with the company's operating performance in the third quarter and we want to thank the thousands of our colleagues across the country that continue to deliver these strong results for us.
Only 2 other times in our company's history have we delivered 9% growth in quarterly NOI and theses result could not have been achieved without the dedication and the commitment by our on-site personnel and their support teams.
And here's a very important thing that we want to share with you today and that is across the country these teams continue to deliver.
Despite concerns about the economy with expectations of slowing job growth and worries about the growing possibility of a double-dip recession we are continuing to post very strong operating results.
This month this week and even today.
Because despite all the worry and all the headlines our dashboards indicate there's no let-up in the strength of underlying apartment fundamentals.
And David Santee is going to tell you just exactly what it is we're seeing out there today.
Okay thank you David.
Good morning everyone.
Since we last spoke the economic headwinds have been creating considerable uncertainty.
However one thing is certain the fundamentals of our business remain strong come our dashboards flash green and our target demographic appears to be healthy and resilient.
In the third quarter our 17 000-plus new residents had an average household income of $86 000 and a median age of 29.
Individual credit scores continue to improve and we had record numbers of automatic credit approvals across the portfolio.
Now typically this is the time of year where I would expect to be telling you about the softening of demand along with downward pressure on rents due to the seasonal nature of our business.
But it's quite the contrary.
Our daily unique visitors to equityapartments.com our number one source for move-ins and a key proxy for relative demand continue to outpace previous year's activity by more than 20%.
This means that we average over 15 000 unique visitors through our website each and every day.
To keep pace with turnover we only -- we need only to convert 5% of these 15 000 daily visitors to new residents.
On a quarter-over-quarter basis e-leads or guest cards increased 7% applicants increased 6% and move-ins were up 4%.
With this continued strength in demand and favorable overall fundamentals our 4 key drivers of revenue continue to deliver results at/or above expectations.
As we have discussed previously these drivers are our turnover occupancy base rent and renewal pricing.
So let's start with turnover.
Turnover for the third quarter was 17.7% compared to 17.9% for Q3 2010.
This positions us well for achieving our revised 2011 annualized turnover of 57.2%.
Quality homes loyal customers and our friend the housing market continue to fuel a strong base of residents whose average stay has increased from 1.4 years to 1.8 years quarter-over-quarter.
Now occupancy.
Throughout this year we have continued to enjoy a 40-plus basis point improvement in occupancy.
With occupancy at 95.2% today and a left to lease of 7.5% it's a story of what we don't see in the traditional seasonal slowdown.
Last year at this time occupancy was 94.6% and we had a slightly higher left to lease.
But this year solid demand a lack of new supply and a rethink on the benefits of homeownership should continue to support higher stabilized occupancy and base rents.
So let's go to base rents.
Since January 1 base rents have improved 9.1%.
And for definitional purposes base rents are LRO-produced rents prior to assigning any amenity values.
Our quarter-over-quarter base rents increased 5.8% exceeding our internal expectations of 5%.
Base rents in Q4 should be on average 8% higher than a year ago as a result of normal seasonal Q4 rate softening experienced last year which we are not experiencing today.
This break in seasonal patterns coupled with improved pricing power in our Southern California markets gives us continued confidence and opportunity with our renewal rates.
So as a result of continued low turnover strong occupancy and base rents that are all trending very favorably against historical norms we have the confidence to quote and achieve market-leading rents on each and every renewal.
As a result renewal rents achieved in Q3 were up 6.4% and forward-quoted rents are 7.4% for November 8% for December and January coming in at 8.3%.
And again quoted rents are initial rates offered to all expiring leases but history tells us that we will achieve 80 to 100 basis points less than quoting.
So with all that said no one can predict the future.
However my dashboard is telling me that our future is bright.
That in the near term job growth is less important than previous downturns and we have the wind at our back.
How hard and fast that wind blows remains to be seen.
All right.
Thank you David.
So obviously we feel pretty good about current fundamentals in the multifamily space and despite concerns about the macroeconomic climate we remain optimistic about fundamentals for the foreseeable future and that's for all the reasons we've talked about over the last several quarters.
We feel good about apartment fundamentals with so little new supply being added to most of our markets.
And at a time when we'll create about 1 million new households a year in the country and occupancy levels as David said and across many other portfolios are already above 95%.
We feel good about apartment fundamentals because demographics are squarely in our favor with 85 million eco-boomers coming into the work place and most likely in the rental housing.
We feel good about apartment fundamentals as a single-family homeownership rate continues to fall as more households think about housing as consumption rather than as investment and value the flexibility and optionality provided by rental housing.
So supply and demand fundamentals should remain very strong for quite some time to come.
Yet despite all this many think that without job growth we can't possibly be in as good a place as David suggested we are because when you back in time there was a high correlation between job growth and revenue growth.
And while all of us here would agree that job growth is great for the apartment space we believe that in the current environment even without it we will continue to deliver very strong revenue growth.
Because today we don't need the job growth necessary to absorb all of the new units being delivered because there are very few new units actually being delivered today.
And we don't need a lot of job growth to backfill the incremental vacancy caused by residents moving out to buy single-family homes because they're not moving out to buy single-family homes at anywhere near the historical run rate.
So unlike not long ago when we needed job growth to backfill all those move outs in order to get back to 95% occupancy which would then enable us to increase our rents in the current environment we should be able to maintain 95% occupancy without it.
And with 95% occupancy the current attitude about single-family homes and 1 million new households being formed annually rents will continue to go up.
So turning now to the transaction market.
I will tell you that remains very competitive.
That remains and continues to be plenty of capital chasing very little supply.
Cap rates in our core markets across the country remain in the low 4s today as investors continue to underwrite strong revenue growth for the next several years.
As we look across the marketplace today we think values are now back to and maybe even above previous peak levels in our core markets yet may still be down as much as 15% in others.
So as we announced in our earnings release last night during the quarter we acquired 2 stabilized assets for $113 million at a weighted average cap rate of 4.7%.
These were 118-unit deal in downtown L.A.
and 247 units in Fort Lauderdale Florida.
We also acquired a 95-unit property in Daly City.
It's on the peninsula just south of San Francisco.
This asset was completed in 2011 and was totally vacant when acquired.
This was the third acquisition we've made of a vacant property built as a for sale condominium product.
Like our other deals we anticipate a quick lease-up and for a yield in year 2 in the mid to high 5s.
So through September we've acquired about $700 million of deals and our revised guidance for acquisition activity for the entire year is $1.25 billion.
So we must have a fair amount in the pipeline and indeed we do.
We're currently under contract for $500 million of assets all of which should close this year.
These deals are in Boston in New York in the D.C.
Metro area in Southern California and on the Peninsula in San Francisco.
And these opportunities represent cap rates in the low 4% to mid-6% range and we think they'll all make great additions to our portfolios in these core markets and also represent great trades for the properties that we are selling.
During the quarter we also continued to sell non-core assets and reduce our overall exposure to our nonCore markets.
We sold 7 assets for $210 million at a weighted average cap rate of 7.2%.
And we realized the weighted average unleveraged IRR of 8.2%.
Now this is well below the 11% unleveraged IRR we've achieved on the $1.4 billion of dispositions we've done in the entire first 9 months of the year.
And in this past quarter this lower result is due to having not done terribly well on some deals in Tampa Florida where we sold our last 4 assets and have now completely exited that market.
Now other sales included the deal in Portland Oregon which leaves us now with 2 assets there both of which are currently being marketed for sale.
Our current expectation for full year dispositions is now $1.4 billion which suggests that we only have about $17 million of sale in the quarter.
That trade has already happened with the recent sale of  an asset in Phoenix so while we continue to market assets in numerous markets across the country no additional dispositions are expected to close in the remainder of the year.
On the development side of our business we have 3 items to discuss this quarter.
And the first is that we began construction on a site in San Jose California for 444 units at $154 million total cost just under $350 000 a door.
We expect the low to mid-6% yield on current market rents on that transaction.
But we also sold or admitted an institutional partner for an 80% interest in that deal and we did that because inclusive of the 546 unit second phase the total development costs there will be $370 million and we thought it prudent to reduce our exposure somewhat and we have retained the right the build the second phase on our own.
The second thing to mention is our acquisition during the quarter of 2 land parcels.
Now the first in Irvine California represents 190 units for a total development cost of $50 million or about $263 000 a door.
We hope to begin construction on that opportunity in 2013 and expect a yield on current rents of 5.6%.
The second landside acquired during the third quarter was not actually an acquisition at all but rather a 99-year ground lease on the upper west side of Manhattan on the west side of Amsterdam between 67th and 68th Streets where we will build a 224-unit property beginning in just about a year from now.
I had a cost of about $506 000 a door and a stabilized yield we hope to achieve or expect to receive based on current market rent of about 6%.
And lastly we've begun initial leasing on our soon-to-be completed property at 10th Avenue and 23rd Street in New York City's Chelsea neighborhood.
Many of you have seen this property located directly on the high line and it will be completed by the end of this quarter.
When originally underwritten we expected the due leases on that property with rents averaging sort of mid to low 5s and deliver a stabilized yield in the 7s and I'm happy to tell you that we've already signed a handful of leases in the mid-6s and we fully expect to stabilize that asset with a yield on cost in the 8s.
So through the third quarter we've started 1 225 units with a total development cost of $325 million.
We're currently working diligently on 3 projects totaling another $300 million which will also start this year.
287 units in Seattle 360 units in Alexandria Virginia and 252 units in Pasadena California.
That means we'll start about $600 million this year which was our guidance in July.
The development team is also continuing to work on secured development rights representing nearly $1 billion in total development costs in New York in Southern California in South Florida and Seattle.
And we also continue to pursue new opportunities across each of our core markets some of which are under LOI.
For others we've submitted proposals that we hope will turn into LOIs and yields on estimated costs for those things we're working on that we don't yet have tied up are in the mid-5s to mid-6s range.
So I'll now ask Mark to take you to some financial highlights for the quarter.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's call.
And today I will discuss our Normalized FFO guidance and our dividend and then close with the discussion of our balance sheet in the debt markets.
On the guidance side I'm going to focus on our Normalized FFO guidance for the fourth quarter.
We expect Normalized FFO per share of between $0.63 and $0.67 in the fourth quarter and between $2.41 and $2.45 for the full year.
This is right on track with what we told you back in July.
In the revised guidance we issued last night we slightly lowered our expected disposition activity.
We now expect to sell $1.4 billion of assets instead of $1.5 billion.
We also slightly increased our acquisition activity to $1.25 billion.
It had been $1.15 billion coming so late in a year this will improve our 2011 Normalized FFO only marginally but it will benefit our 2012 numbers.
So armed with our 2011 Normalized FFO guidance we can accurately predict our full year 2011 dividend.
As you may recall last December we announced the new dividend policy for our company.
Under our new policy we intend to pay a total annual dividend equal to about 65% of our Normalized FFO applying the policy to our 2011 Normalized FFO number of between $2.41 per share and $2.45 per share our total dividend for 2011 should be between $1.57 per share and $1.59 per share.
The company has already paid out dividends of $33.75 per share for each of the first 3 quarters of the year and that totals up to a dividend paid-to-date of $1.0125 per share.
Therefore the company expects and this is all subject to the board's approval to pay a dividend in January 2012 of approximately $0.56 per share to $0.58 per share that will bring the total payment for 2011 to between $1.57 and $1.59 per share number I've mentioned a moment ago.
This is approximately an 8% increase over last year's full year dividend of $1.47.
On the balance sheet side certainly lots of scary stuff out there in the capital markets.
A lot of anxiety about Europe though that may be improving with this morning's news and slowing growth expectations for much of the rest of the world.
While no company including ours is totally immune from this turbulence we thought it was important to stress that our strong and flexible balance sheet means we are well-positioned to weather possible disruptions in the capital markets.
The most important thing we have done recently to strengthen our finances is to put in place last July a new unsecured revolving line of credit.
It matures in July 2014 it does have a 1-year extension at the company's option it has $1.25 billion of capacity and a strong diversified base of lenders and we did manage to slightly improve our financial covenants.
We are we are absolutely delighted to have put this in place just before all the capital markets volatility hit.
I also want to say a word about our credit metrics and the debt level that we think is best for running our business.
Our debt ratios at the end of the quarter and you can see those disclosed on Page 17 of the release are better than 4 years ago before the credit market collapsed.
The main reason for this improvement is that our EBITDA is growing rapidly because of its strong operating performance including great performance from new acquisitions and development and all this of course improves our credit metrics.
Additionally in August we used proceeds from our property dispositions to redeem the $482.5 million that was outstanding on our 3.85% Exchangeable Senior Notes so that was our convertible issuance.
The improvement in our balance sheet ratios from this redemption however will be temporary because we would expect to borrow this money back by the end of this year to fund investment activity.
We believe that we will have a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio at December 31 2011 of about 7.1x and 2011 full year fixed charge coverage of 2.6x.
We expect to be about $425 million drawn on our revolving line of credit on December 31 2011.
I stated on previous calls that we plan to raise debt at some point in the next few months.
Unsecured EQR 10-year debt pricing is considerably in flux today given the good news out of Europe spreads a few days ago would have been around 2.5% implying an all-in rate of about 4.75%.
The spreads seem to be coming in substantially though the treasury has sold off a bit as well.
But overall our unsecured debt cost seem to be improving.
On the GSE side we think EQR could get a 10-year interest-only deal done for a rate of about 4.25%.
We will consider carefully which debt market is most advantageous for EQR to access considering rate flexibility and ratings considerations.
Because of the timing and size of the issuance is not certain we have not included any incremental debt cost in our guidance.
Now I will turn the call back over to our operator Jo for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> David I'm trying to make sense out of what were very bullish comments about the market and particular with some of the trends you're seeing on renewals over the next couple of months with the guidance that was provided for the full year of 5% on the revenue growth line.
Because if you back into what that implies for the fourth quarter it would imply that the year-over-year revenue growth rate may be equivalent to what we just saw on the third quarter so sort of a flattening out of that revenue growth rate but that doesn't seem to jive with the very positive commentary I just heard on the call.
Can you reconcile those 2 for me? Sure David it's Santee.
Sure.
So it's really about understanding the cyclical nature of our business.
And if you think about -- think of our business in terms of lease expirations and it's just an arch from January to December it's an arch.
So what happens in Q4 is that you just have fewer transactions.
Yes we're going to issue 8% renewals or 7.5% renewals but those expirations are probably 40% less than what you see in Q2 and Q3.
Additionally because you have more renewals and less move-ins the transactional fees if you think of our income stream as there's rental rate and then other income those transactional fees actually go negative sequentially from Q3 to Q4.
So that sequential negativity on transactional fees offsets your rate growth to where if you look back at our sequential results for the past 10 years they have been either negative or flat 7 out of the past 10 years.
So it's just a normal occurrence based on the structure of our revenue stream.
Research Division</strong> So if I can just add to that so it sounds like there might be this pause going on because of some of the seasonality issues but as we get into the first half of next year we should all be assuming that your year-over-year revenue growth rate would be higher than the 5.5% that you're booking now? Well we've got to be very careful about giving any guidance for 2012.
But as David said in his kind of prepared comments fourth quarter is going to -- will be strong just because relative to what is the downturn that could happen in 4Q 2010 that wasn't happening now.
But yes we feel very good about what the next few years hold for us.
And our next question comes from the line of Rob Stevenson with Macquarie.
Just on Ross' question.
Can you talk about what the trend was on new leases and renewal spreads month-by-month during the third quarter and whether or not those have crossed and permanently crossed? Go ahead.
Yes this is -- would you repeat the question? Renewal increases and newly spreads? Yes month by month during the third quarter whether or not you've gotten to the point where you permanently crossed in terms of new leases being stronger than renewals or whether or not renewals are still stronger -- still in stronger growth than the new leases et cetera? Okay.
The renewals have been fairly consistent through each month at about between 6.2% 6.5% rate around there.
We ended I think quarter average was 6.4% and there really wasn't much variation between those months.
On the new lease gain which I assume by that you mean specific apartment to when it moves out what was the old guy paying versus the new one coming in after some period of vacancy? Right.
And that statistic is -- moves around a lot.
There's a lot of noise on that.
It could depend on the unit mix when that person moved in what they were paying previously if they decide to move in 2005 2008 or did they move in last year or 6 months ago.
So there's a lot of movement in those numbers.
We have seen -- because of the volume of transactions in the summer months that number was like a 5% and it trended down to in the 4s.
So we're pretty consistent between 4% and 4.25% and maybe 4.3%  throughout the third quarter on that statistic.
So renewals are still continuing to be higher than the new lease rate.
But let me make this point on that idea when we renew a lease we're renewing people to the market rent.
And so if the market rent is $1 800 they're going to pay $1 800 on the renewal lease.
When someone moves out the new person coming in regardless of whether the old person was paying they're still going to pay that same rent $1 800.
So we're achieving the same rent whether getting there by renewal or getting there by the turn of a vacant unit.
This replacement rent statistic and the new lease gains some people call it can be very misleading depending on just the legacy leases that are turning that particular month.
But rest assured we're getting -- achieving the market rate either way.
Just to say that assumes however that the rate we think we'll be marketing 60 days from now is in fact that rent.
Right.
Which could be higher.
It's possible the rent in 60 -- the spot rent in 60 days from now could the higher than what we are -- what we think the 60-day out rent is today.
Now hopefully we're being very aggressive on that 60 days out but it is possible the market could actually be higher.
Okay.
And then can you guys talk a little bit about what you're seeing on the expense side not the seasonal expenses but the sort of recurring consistent expenses whether it's taxes personnel costs utilities et cetera today versus at the beginning of the year? Is there any upward bias to that or are you still being at sort of meandering around? Well I think we're on track relative to our guidance.
We put into place some pretty significant programs at the beginning of 2010 that we're still seeing the benefits in the payroll line.
Utilities it continues to be the same story.
Water sewer rates continue to go up and that growth is offset by reduced costs in natural gas.
And then when it comes to real estate taxes I think we've raised our number just a tad to 1.31% for yearend which is slightly higher than we expected at the beginning of the year.
But we're in a period now where we know all of the variables.
We know we have all the valuations we have all the tax rates and a lot of the appeals have gone through the pipeline.
So we see expenses right where we expected them to be.
Okay.
So if you think about it beginning of the year versus today you're seeing an upward -- a downward slope but nothing that's a very strong slope? If I had to say anything was upward it would only be real estate taxes.
And our next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> David you gave some color on the acquisitions.
And I'm just wondering what is the going-in return I guess for the acquisitions you expect to close by yearend? I know you gave a range of cap rates but are you seeing opportunities to buy some B assets that you think you can upgrade to As or it is essentially mostly A assets? I guess there is a lot of the former Jay that we are working on some transactions that represent some sort of value-add opportunity.
We're also looking at some assets that we think are pretty good as is.
So again what we end up buying if we these things closed or not it remains to be seen.
But again I guess I just have to sort of tell you what the overall spread is.
And then we've given guidance as to what we think the delta will be on acquisitions for the full year versus dispositions for the full year and we'll just have to go on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess as I think about 2012 and I know there's certainly been some effort at giving some guidance there but as you think about maybe buying versus building would you expect to develop more next year versus buy? Again it remains to be seen obviously.
I will tell you that I would not be surprised if we didn't see more development opportunities next year than what we've seen in the last year.
I just think that the -- getting a sense that as challenging it may be as development financing might have been for some it might be incrementally a little more challenging.
So I've talked with our development guys about the possibility of actually seeing more development opportunity.
Now what that will be relative to acquisition opportunity I don't know.
But I'd tell you in the core sites that we'd like to build on we think that there was a reasonable amount of competition this past year and we may not have as much competition next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you help us think as well about the outlook for New York City as well as D.C.? I know in the case of D.C.
clearly its rents that have held up well throughout this cycle but help us think about the most recent quarter in New York and the outlook for rent growth there? Okay.
Yes this is Fred Tuomi.
New York is still hanging strong.
I mean the demand has been very strong through the summer and continues up through this week.
And it's particularly encouraging to see that demand is very strong at the high end.
The big apartments the penthouse the view premium units are all full and we've got a good strong demand there.
And even though there's a lot of talk about what's going to happen to the banking sector and the financial sector in terms of jobs as of today we have not seen any tangible evidence of our residents losing jobs and having to downsize or move out of the city.
And another interesting trend developed in New York is that the nonbanking sectors are growing.
We're seeing a lot of people coming in getting apartments from the entertainment from the legal technology leisure healthcare they're all growing new media.
It seems like almost everyone wants to occupy New York these days including these other sectors.
So a very strong demand in New York good rent growth.
We're well above peak there now the rents are up 12% year-to-date through this week 6% from last year 7% renewals.
So it's all looking very good in New York.
And really no supply issues.
And with no supply issues locally in each little neighborhood we're not seeing any concessions or OP deals except for a few small owners doing that.
Then D.C.
is still going strong.
I mean there's a lot of talk about ECG [ph] what's going to happen with the super community what's going to happen with government job losses what's going to happen with supply and all of that may become an issue here in the next -- late '12 or '13 or '14.
But in the moment D.C.
and Virginia is still going very strong.
All the indicators are looking good demand is there occupancy is 95.5% rents are up 8% 6% year-to-date 7% a little bit more than 7% this time last year renewals are 7%.
Nobody is buying homes traffic is still strong and a very good rent demographic there.
High incomes people with very good jobs so it's still going strong.
But now it's not to say that in the next couple of years it could be tough there.
If the government really does absolute cuts and we see some leading indicators of that in the jobs numbers they are softening.
But if they do absolute cuts instead of relative cuts meaning they're slowing the growth rate.
If that happens then it could be some downward pressure on D.C.
I think late '12 and into '13 and '14.
The supply picture in D.C.
is also something to be concerned about.
We have a little bit of a pause this year only 3 000 units they were all sold very quickly.
And next year we're going to see about 8 000 units coming in.
And this time a lot more in the district.
In the last kind of cycle we didn't see that many high-end luxury apartments built in the district because all of the sites went to condos.
This time around we're going to see some apartments delivered into the district in 2012 and then again in 2013 and beyond.
So we could expect about 8 000 units into the whole Metro area next year.
About half of those in Virginia a quarter of those in the district and a quarter in the Maryland suburbs and that about 9 000 units the next 2013 2014.
If the job continues to be strong as we've said before this will be absorbed very easily.
If not that could create some problems in a couple maybe 18 months to 24 months out.
But as we sit today we're still very very confident in the D.C.
Virginia market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just a final question.
Any thoughts on the ATM at this point? I guess you talked about the line balance by yearend but any thoughts on using some equity as you anticipate acquisitions? No.
I guess the financing Mark talked about is essentially just to refinance other debt that was taken down the converts that we called away which we were able to deal with just on cash on hand.
So there've been no discussion about that at the present time.
And our next question comes from the line of Swaroop Yalla with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> David there were a couple of proposals from the federal government on housing.
I mean it's a hot topic.
They introduced HARP 2.0 for making it easy for refinancing and also the proposal on turning some of the distressed single-family homes into rentals.
So just wondering what your thoughts are on that and if you are seeing any impact I mean how are you positioning yourself for these changes? Well let me say that we're seeing no impact and frankly don't expect to see a lot of impact.
I think it's possible in some markets like Las Vegas or Orlando and the Inland Empire maybe you might see some impact from that.
But just in the markets we're at -- we're in there's just not a big overhang of those single-family homes.
And just from a larger kind of perspective if those programs can help stabilize single-family home prices and I think that will be helpful for the economy.
But we're not looking at that as a big threat to what we do and not trying to position ourselves as a result.
Research Division</strong> Great.
In terms of your views on just having these programs at about scale do you see -- how do you see the economics working out? I mean if you're seeing anything I mean what are your views on the business model itself? I'm not quite sure I understand.
On the business model of an investor buying single-family homes to rent? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Again we've not thought a lot about it because we don't look at it in the majority of our markets as any sort of threat.
I will tell you just as an owner and operator of rental housing and I would tell you as someone who owned and operated the Lexford portfolio for instance which is low-density there's an awful lot of landscaping asphalt roofs and siding with each one of those individual units and I've encouraged people not to underestimate the cost of maintaining that investment nor of the cost of actually attracting and keeping any sort of reasonable level of occupancy.
I'm not suggesting that people can't do well with that.
But I would encourage you not to underestimate the cost of doing so.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just to follow up on the correction on New York and D.C.
when I look at year-on-year revenue numbers it looked like in the third quarter there was a slight dip in New York and D.C.
I mean how should I be reading this? I mean can you break it down by occupancy and rents by -- for these markets? Or is that just a little bit more noise relating to seasonality? Yes it's probably mostly seasonality.
In New York right now today we're sitting in Manhattan 96.9% occupancy very strong for this time of year if fact that's 60 basis points higher than the same week a year ago.
So in Manhattan a very strong 5% left to lease and the rents are up 12% year-to-date 6% year-over-year in renewals like I said are 7%.
The other part that we considered New York is the Gold Coast of Jersey that we have right there in Jersey City and they we're at 95.8% occupied which is 70 basis points higher than the same period last year.
So you can see demand has grown and has been sustained.
Rents are up 16% from the January.
They're up 10% from the same week a year earlier and renewals are just under 7%.
So again the Jersey City piece is going great and we have a couple super buildings right there near the Goldman headquarters and Goldman is still a steady source of great business for us.
So still looking good there.
So I think the most recent indicators are that we're going to have a very strong finish to the year in the New York market.
In the D.C.
I think I gave you those stats we're up 6.3% for the quarter in terms of revenue and that's continuing or getting a little bit better as we move into the fourth quarter.
And again rents are up strong renewals are up strong turnover was flat in terms of same quarter last year and home buying was flat.
So really I see nothing to be concerned about in the D.C.
market today.
It's more about the future.
And your next question comes from the line of Jana Galan with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> David provided the commentary that Southern California is continuing to improve.
I was wondering if you can give some detail on the various submarkets and what you were seeing for rents and occupancy in September and so far in October? Okay yes it's Fred Tuomi again.
Southern California is finally coming to the dance.
We're seeing some good momentum building and it seems to be sustained whereas before we had a couple of false starts.
And that really happened in August of this year.
So starting with Los Angeles really about -- the first week in August we saw a significant momentum picking up from Los Angeles in terms of demand prices renewals occupancy and everything.
So L.A.
is looking good.
We're seeing renewals of just under 4% rents are up 5% year-over-year we're sitting at 96% occupancy and at a very low forward exposure left to lease of only 6%.
Pretty much the same thing in Orange County.
August we saw a nice pick up.
It's being sustained.
Occupancy is 96% left to lease the forward exposure is only 5.7%.
Rents are up 9% year-to-date and 9% year-over-year.
So Orange County smaller market I think you're going to have a quicker rebound as things solidify.
So it's looking good in Orange County as well.
San Diego is kind of a laggard.
It's improving but I wouldn't say it's building rapid momentum.
Our portfolio has more exposure to the South County market and Mission Valley which has been kind of hampered by some of the military rotations.
So San Diego is okay it's just not as robust but we're happy to say L.A.
and Orange County are really building some sustainable Research Division</strong> And then just a quick follow-up on the expenses payroll leasing and advertising they were down quite a bit and I was wondering if this is a function of moving certain parts of the process online or to the website and maybe how much is left in savings there? Well the payroll -- a lot of that really has to do with our central business group initiative that we implemented really about well third quarter last year.
So all of that savings continues to flow through.
If you look at our property management expense you'll see that's elevated.
So a lot of that payroll savings is sitting in the property management cost.
Probably the most significant is really the leasing and advertising costs down 20% -- almost 22% year-to-date.
And that really -- I mean that goes back to kind of the demand conversation that we had earlier.
I mean we've kind of eliminated the use of brokers in New York and Boston.
We've reduced our paid search by 20%.
We're using fewer and fewer ILSs and all of that translates into 20 some percent reduction on leasing and advertising but we continue to drive more traffic.
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew McCulloch with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David just on external growth your stock's up 15% for the month and I'm not sure assets value have really done a whole lot over that timeframe.
Are you giving your acquisition folks more of a green light today given you're trading at a sizable prems NAV again? I guess Andy we're responding to every acquisition opportunity that we think that makes sense for us.
And look at those primarily in the current environment as trading opportunities.
So we still got assets we'd like to sell and if we can find assets into which we can redeploy that capital we won't hesitate to do so.
So for the present time it's really funding acquisitions with dispositions capital.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on acquisitions I guess.
There's been a lot news articles about the Palo Alto  portfolio that you guys are pursuing.
It sounds like that might be in your guidance.
Can you comment on that portfolio or at least give us some indication on when you'll be able to comment on it? Well I guess it's not a secret that we're looking at a portfolio in the East Palo Alto California the 1 800 units.
On the Peninsula -- great location on the Peninsula that we think could represent a terrific opportunity for us to make an investment on a -- in a large portfolio.
And -- but we're continuing to work on it and we do have an expectation that we could close on that this year but nothing is certain at the present time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on land value and construction costs.
Can you give any general comments about recent trends there? Well I guess construction costs we still think are down call it 15 or so percent from peak and maybe they're rising modestly and maybe only modestly because labor costs remain generally under control and land prices I guess have been competitive because we've -- looking at entitled opportunities in core markets and there's sufficient number of people that are interested in acquiring those.
So land prices or those types of deals have come back and come back pretty quickly.
But again we're looking at investment opportunity -- development opportunities relative to what acquisition opportunities are in those individual markets and some will do one and other markets will do the other and some markets will happily do both and we think we're getting properly compensated for the incremental risk that we take through the development process.
And our next question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on Ross's question as well.
Could you tell us how much you expect just your rental revenue growth to accelerate from the third to fourth quarters? So excluding the other income that you mentioned would be down on the quarter-over-quarter basis how much would revenue growth be in the fourth quarter versus the third? So if you're talking about a sequential rental revenue number it's probably up something like 20 basis points putting aside the impact of other income going down because of the transactional activity reduction that David Santee spoke of a moment ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess the fact that occupancy is up sort of 40 basis points year-over-year and the rental rate growth that you mentioned 7% 8% during the quarter seemed -- obviously it's higher than the 5.5% on same-store revenue.
I guess I would have thought there'd be a little bit more acceleration there but I don't know.
Is there is something we're missing other than just the number of expirations you have? Really I think it's all about the expirations and the number of move-ins.
If you just -- if you look at our just our September to October move-in those were down 2 000.
And so what you have to do is really look at the level of fees that you're talking about in such a short period of time.
So in many of our markets Florida we received $90 for an application fee.
In a lot of our markets we receive $300 $400 $500 nonrefundable move-in fees all of that flows into our other income.
So it's just a matter of the ability to impact that revenue with such few transactions.
And I'll say this as well in our business think of it in the world of yield management.
There's 2 formulas that we use as for demand and one is that arc the I spoke about.
Where if you take the northern part of the United States I mean the business cycle is more pronounced relative to that arc.
So in Boston in November and December you have very very very few move-ins versus the more bird-like pattern which is in the southern part of the United States where you have pretty much consistent demand all through the year.
So it's really just math based on the available transactions to impact revenue.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just on David's commentary and cap rates it sounds like they stayed pretty flat even through this period of renewed economic concerns but you would think at some point that CapEx passed your eyes [ph] just based on slowing growth or rising interest rates so just wondering when you think that might occur if that's sort of an early next year time phenomenon or that's going to happen later on when more supply hits.
It's obviously tough for me to say Eric.
I mean I guess I can tell you that in the marketplace today there are probably fewer bidders on assets because some have had to retrench or retreat for various reasons.
But there's still sufficient number of people looking at these transactions that pricing has remained fairly consistent.
Whether it's an inflection point or not I mean I don't know.
But I'll just tell you I think that at least at the present time but I'm not quite sure if it changes down the road for the types of properties that we've been buying.
I think that there's a shortage of sticks and bricks of the kind of quality that we've been buying relative to the amount of capital.
And our investment activity over the past year has been I want to sell the assets that we believe are most -- whose values are most at risk of rising interest rates and those are assets-to-markets we've been selling and we've been saying for quite some time that we think that those that we've buying are of less sensitive interest rate risk.
Certainly sensitive but less so.
Research Division</strong> David it's Michael Bilerman speaking.
You had made  a comment in the beginning that you believe housing is more viewed as consumption today than as an investment and so I'm curious as you think about your business and as you evaluate strategic sort of goals do you think there's an opportunity to create a subset within the portfolio where you're doing longer duration leases -- almost like a quasi-ownership where the tenant because they do want to have a little bit more security over their rent payments over the next 3 to 5 years they want to have security about where they live they don't -- won't have to deal with annual renewals or moving that you could take a subset of the portfolio especially in your higher end assets even some of these condo-turned rental buildings and create that.
Is that an opportunity also to create a little bit more of an income stream -- a stable income stream over time? I guess if you think that we're in a rising rent environment you'd like to have shorter dated leases than longer dated leases.
So I think that in most markets where in the convention is a year and outside of New York we're obligated to offer longer leases my guess is we'll continue to operate kind of with the convention with a view that rates will continue to rise.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But I guess over long cycles of time as the consumer is changing from one of investment to consumption there's certainly part of those individuals that do want a little bit more security and timing that you could create more demand and income stream that's less variable.
Well except you'd have the charge a rate that accounted for the fact it was a 2-year number and I will tell you that will be a pretty big rate and they'd -- you don't have to compare that to a one year number and I guess I just -- and also I will to tell you that some instance is almost an option for the tenant because in most of them -- 1 year out that they want they're going to kind of come and complain and pay the legislative -- mandated small fee to actually get out.
So I'm not quite sure that there's a lot of upside also in that kind of thought process.
Well when you go back to the age of our demographic 29 years old.
I mean a lot of these folks I think people are willing to pay more for flexibility than certainty.
So unless that dynamic changes I think it we'll probably continue on unless there's some huge shift in thinking on part of the customer.
And we do offer 2-year leases in New York in Manhattan and some people take it but most of the people still go for the 12 month lease term.
And there's a lot of smart people that are figuring it out.
And our next question comes from the line of Seth Laughlin with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on acquisitions.
I guess as you're looking at them today are you adjusting your underwriting given that we're kind of progressing through the cycle and that maybe peak growth rates are you becoming more conservative either on growth or IRRs? Well I guess we're still trying to underwrite to plus 8% IRRs.
And we still have an expectation of -- the ability to raise rents over the next several years.
So on a market-by-market basis it's possible the team is maybe rethinking what we may be able to do 12 for 24 months out.
But in any event I will tell you that there's good rental growth in our underwriting assumptions over the next few years.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then maybe just a quick follow-up on the tax question.
I guess just to help us understand the process what's the timing of the appraisals and sort of thinking about what time frame if you were to receive increases either in rate or appraised value.
When could that start to hit the expenses assuming that did occur? Well let me say this.
When we look back over 10 years of year-in real estate tax numbers the high watermark was in 2007 and 2008 at a 5% growth.
Most of the time the tenure average is about 2.5% to 3%.
So I mean typically what happens is that every state is different.
New York we have 421A step-ups.
Florida -- and then you have to look where we have vulnerability relative to rate.
New Jersey just passed a cap where values can't increase more than 5% versus the 10%.
And so it's -- I'm not sure how to answer your question but all of this as far as budgeting goes we're in constant contact with our third party sources in the field.
We pretty much know what to expect throughout the year and generally speaking by the time we receive those valuations and in some cases we don't find the actual tax rates until October or September then we need to make those adjustments.
Yes.
And let me just add.
There's some other items that should be thought about just so there isn't undue anxiety about the 2.6% quarter-over-quarter third quarter real estate tax number.
The prior period was down over 4%.
Also there was an adjustment we had to make an accrual adjustment of about $500 000 that's in that number otherwise that number would have been smaller.
And a good part of the remainder and you can see this in our New York expense numbers is due to the burn off of some abatements in New York City.
So these numbers on a quarterly basis are lumpy.
It's better to look at the 1.3% year-to-date number and that's very much in the wheelhouse -- I think absent these $500 0000 or so kind of accrual adjustment we made would have been rate on that 1% number.
So I don't know if we see very anything really different in real estate taxes beyond accounting adjustments and the like.
And our next question comes from the line of Dave Bragg with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on renewals.
What percentage of current residents are pushing back nowadays if you split it between those simply accepting the renewal increase versus coming in to negotiate? Yes that's a -- we're still seeing that most people are renewing at the quote about 60% or so and that number really hasn't changed.
And the only market that I've seen kind of an anecdotal and a little bit of measured evidence of people getting a little bit of price resistance is San Francisco to be expected.
We've had very strong growth there through this year.
But again it's not impacting our results or the performance of the overall demand there.
So really in terms of the acceptance of the quote and the -- there may be more negotiations but we don't see it in the actual numbers.
Research Division</strong> That helps.
And you want us through  expected acceleration for renewal increases for the portfolio as a whole into January but can you help us understand directionally the trends in the key markets what markets are seeing the greatest acceleration of renewal increases into 4Q from 3Q? And what markets are they flattish or maybe lower? Yes.
The strong markets in terms of renewals -- San Francisco leads the pack and we're currently achieving in the month of October north of 11%.
Denver at 8% Boston at 8% DC Virginia of 7% and New York at 7%.
So those are the strongest markets and that's continuing.
Actually the quoted percentages as David mentioned for November December January are actually going to be above those numbers and it's still -- we have to wait until we actually see what we've closed.
On the other side of the spectrum those that are pretty weak on the renewals.
Even Empire as you would expect is 3.6% -- L.A.
is below 4% and San Diego is right kind of right at 4%.
Yes.
But I just want to make sure -- go through again if you would David just what you're seeing in this renewal rents relative to last year because of what happened last year.
It's more about the comp here than it is currently.
Yes.
Probably the best example that I can give you is Orange County where if you look at last year we had the seasonal fall-off in rents.
But this year we see the exact opposite.
So when I look out to my LRO rents for 2 weeks out I see rent growth of 11.2% in Orange County okay.
So Orange County even though we've already issued those renewals 5 weeks ago rent growth in Orange County was only about 4%.
So you have this softening from last year but you have this significant growth this year  which is creating this wide gap.
So it's not unlikely that come January February March we could be issuing if this sticks we could be issuing 11% 12% renewal increases in Orange County.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to look at this from one other way.
I want to confirm that there are new markets in which you're sending out renewal increases today for 4Q into January that are lower than what you achieved in 3Q of this year? That's correct.
Yes absolutely.
That's correct.
Remember we price renewal on a forward expected prices.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then on development David.
You mentioned the lower level of competition potentially for development deals next year.
Hopefully you could expand on that a little bit.
What have you seen in recent months to cause you to believe that and then more specific to your company I think that you've traditionally said that $500 million $600 million of starts is around the maximum that you would do in any given year.
But given those comments is it becoming more likely that you could exceed that level at some point in the near future? I guess what I had said about the $500 million to $600 million David was I thought that was kind of a normal run rate.
It doesn't mean that that's a limit or a ceiling.
I guess -- and my only comment is that we talk to a lot of banks to a lot of capital sources.
I think we talked to one capital source the other day who said they were pulling back.
They were having a wait-and-see attitude.
And I just think that the marginals sort of local developer who might have thought they were going to get something done might be a little more challenged than what they had thought.
I think the banks potentially could be a little bit more cautious equity sources perhaps could be -- they can need a little bit more guarantee and or a little bit more skin in the game.
And that's all.
It was just a comment based upon conversations we've had with -- Mark and I had with various equity and debt providers who are leading us to believe that they were going to be a little more cautious going forward as they assess all this uncertainty.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question real quick Mark you mentioned 4.25 for tenure money from the GSEs.
Can you just compare where the life companies are today? Well they're running towards the end of their allocations for the year.
So again if we were going to do it at life company deal and size I think it might be better to just be the first deal out of the shoot in January than it would be the try and get some money now just kind of think a lot of guys have exhausted their allocation.
I think we'd be right in that GSE range with the kind of pools we do.
Another note is we'd have to choose assets that were very shiny in our core markets.
The Lifeco bid is certainly there for the kind of asset EQR owns.
But if we were to try to put assets in that we're in the future share in markets we own assets in still like in Orlando I think we get some pushback on that.
And I think if we put in and we have few of this but in core market assets that were maybe in slightly less desirable submarkets I think we get pushed back from the Lifeco too.
So I think they can match the GSEs I just think they're a little picky around their collateral.
And our next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly David.
On the last call you spoke a little more cautiously about acquiring and want to step up your disposition activity.
Certainly it seems like you're re-ramping up the acquisition activity.
Given the macro headlines almost seem worse today than they did with the second quarter call.
What's given you more confidence to be a bit more aggressive on the acquisition front? Alex I don't think it's -- we've been more aggressive we've just seen a little bit more product.
And I think that on the call -- the second quarter call I think I might have said that we might expect to see more product as we progress later into the year.
I also believe I've said I -- that I said 2010 and it didn't happen but we have an expectation that we'd see more product towards the end of the year and that has in fact happened.
So it's not being more aggressive we are just seeing more product.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you think that's driven just more by the recovery of NOI that sellers are more willing to let go because values have come up or what do you think? Or is it more potential people thinking about tax issues that -- tax law changes.
What do you think is driving it? I mean every single seller has their own reasons Alex.
They may have refinanced risk that they've decided that they don't wish to take.
They may have a desire to pay some taxes now before -- maybe it changes.
They may just feel like it can get any better than this who knows.
I think every seller has their own reasons.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then the next question is in New York just the 5 of 6 door that you mentioned for the upper West side that's the all in correct? That's not the -- your implied land cost correct? Yes that is without land cost.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what if you factored in the ground lease what's the implied per door for the land? Well that's good -- depending on how you do that I guess if you just do an NPV calculation over a 99-year ground lease that cost per door could get into the mid-8 -- mid $800 000 per door call it 860 $860 000 a door depending on how one did that valuation.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> You mean $860 0000 all in so it would be like another $350 000 a door.
Yes.
And I used as a comparison just to kind of put that in perspective that a property 3 blocks north of there at 72nd and Amsterdam Broadway called the Circle traded for something like $1350 a door -- per foot I'm sorry per foot.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay so to your earlier comment about values rebounding based on -- there's the Park Avenue site that you guys reported in with Toll Brothers and I think it's like $400 a foot.
I think that sounds like it's a fee deal.
But it sounds like in New York the land cost have now surpassed prior peaks.
Is that -- that seems to be for assessment? It's not passed pretty close again -- but we're talking about entitled ready-to-go product.
And so -- let me put some things perspective because I've got some numbers kind of garbled up here a little bit.
So $870 a door is maybe quoted a little more than $1000 a foot and that compares to the $1350 or so bucks a foot up at The Circle.
So yes I would tell you on -- entitled zone fully ready to go product in New York.
I would say the prices are -- will be back close to peak.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question is I want to go back to expenses.
I know you guys have been proactive in locking in costs proactively managing real estate expenses.
I'm not asking for guidance for '12 but if you think about expenses overall should we expect more normalized levels or -- and is there anything kind of expense horizon that you're getting a little bit concerned about right now? You don't have a lot of pressure on payroll.
But with the supply down -- I'm just curious as you look out over the next several quarters what you're seeing on the -- what you expect to see on the expense run? Well I think we have a few treats not tricks but I think you're going to see the benefits of our Central Business Group kind of flow through the system and probably see payroll growth turn to more normal levels probably the 2 plus percent range.
We've always discussed about real estate taxes that eventually we will see some pressure there.
Utilities I think it will continue to be the same story.
We will continue to see gains from lowered natural gas that offset water sewer and take those 3 categories and that's almost 70% of our expense formula.
So I think we have some things in the works that will still allow us to mitigate some of that growth and it's just a matter of how quickly we can get that done.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Second of all you had an LRO  termination in the quarter what was that related to? Well originally when we partnered with Archstone we had a 50% ownership interest in the intellectual property rights.
So I mean basically for the last 5 years we had turned that product -- both Archstone and us turned that product over to a company called Rainmaker and in the original deal if Rainmaker achieved certain revenue levels they had the right to purchase the intellectual property and so therefore everyone exercised their rights and now Archstone has full control I'm sorry Rainmaker now has full control and ownership of the LRO product.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final question just in terms of dispositions I think Dave you mentioned in the past about $1.5 billion left to sell and I was just wondering if your -- as you're going through the portfolio is that still a good number today? And as you think about disposition activity over the next 12 months is that something you expect to accelerate given where we're at the cycle or pull back on? Given you were at the cycle.
Well I would say I think that today Mike we have very little that we need to sell.
We've got assets we'd ultimately like to sell as we rotate into core markets and perhaps different product in the same market which we might want to sell some assets.
So I think you should expect $1 billion or $1.5 billion of disposition run rate for us for the next several years.
A lot of that though will be a function of will we find good investment opportunities under which we can recycle that capital.
But the product that we need to sell has generally been sold and now we think it's just more opportunistic trades.
And our next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
Big picture.
You mentioned the elimination of homeownership as an investment and I'm wondering why that matters? Actually that's not part of your competitors that the people aren't going to occupy a home.
In fact if anything the elimination of them keeps the overall housing market more affordable to the extent that whatever does turn.
So why is it that that's a good thing if they're not really leaving per se by definition? I'm not sure -- is that a trick question? The fact that people aren't having second thoughts about leaving our apartments they go buy a single-family home.
No that's not what I'm talking about.
I'm talking about -- you have an investor right? Who's not going to occupy a home he's just investing in it to -- rent it out or whatever? We why does that matter if that appetite is gone for you? No.
I'm suggesting that that appetite has gone our residents.
And that single-family home that investor wants to buy that exists as housing inventory whether it's owned by that person by original owner by a bank I mean I'm not sure who owns it's a housing unit.
My comments was about our residents no longer thinking that they need to buy these things because they were going to double every 5 years but rather thinking about as consumption thinking about the wisdom of putting every penny of their liquid net worth into a home borrowing money from their in-laws and we think that's just getting people stay longer in our apartments.
And it was from that perspective not from the perspective of an investor buying a single-family home and making it available for [indiscernible].
If one of your renters bought a home as an investment they may stay in your unit.
I guess I don't understand fully the connection between that angle of home buying and your business.
That's the part I just don't get fully.
Well I guess I don't fully get your question.
Probably we can talk later this afternoon.
I mean...
And your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just have one quick question.
I'm just trying to understand comments that were made about cap rates with acquisitions and now kind of 4.5% type cap rates and given your expectations of 8% IRRs wondering what you really have underwrite by way of NOI growth and also exit cap rates to feel comfortable with that idea of being able to hit that 8% IRR when the ingoing cap rate is just at 4.5%.
Well obviously every acquisition opportunity is different.
But as I did say that we have great -- pretty strong confidence in rental growth over the next 2 3 4 years.
And every residual cash flow against which 1 applies a cap rate has embedded in a great deal assumptions and certainly the exit cap rate that one uses is one has an assumption in that as well.
I guess I can only tell you that as we underwrite our acquisition cash flows it does produce sort of two facts.
One is what the entry price is -- an absolute numbers or price per door and what the exit -- what the assumed cash flow is and you assume cap rate that is used and when we look at those as a sanity check -- we look at those 2 points and in most instances the compounded average growth rate and the absolute value of those assets has a 3 handle on it.
So between revenue growth and some appreciation it's how you get to the at 8% IRR and some of that comes through compounded average growth rate of the underlying asset of about 3 plus -- with a 3 handle call it mid 3s.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mid-3% growth for -- over how many years and at what exit cap rate? Well again every asset is different and this is not a formula you jam property into but I'd say we've been buying out so I would say some of the assets we're buying we get value-added opportunities well we'll put $3000 $5000 $7000 a door into them and end up getting a low double-digit return on incremental capital so that is embedded in there as well.
So there's an awful lot of things that go into these individual assets but in general the expectation of the compound average growth rate between the absolute value going in and the absolute value going out is a mid-3% compound average growth rate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 1 other quick question.
In regards to the dashboard what would you need start -- what would you need to start seeing in others words kind of feel not as confident about the outlook for the apartment space on a going forward basis? Well I guess I would see increasing exposure and reduced applications which would start obviously putting pressure on our price.
Homebuying -- move out to buy home is still low.
I mean I don't see that changing anytime soon but certainly it could happen but other than that that's -- looking at the dashboard that's the critical item is really the exposure and what that does to rents.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark Biffert with Bloomberg Research.
Just quick question.
You had mentioned that the average household income for your residence was about $86 000 and if you take the rent that you're currently charging it's about -- we're still about 22% of their income.
How has that number traded let's say over the last 10 years for your portfolio? I want to make sure you're comparing 2 different numbers.
One is the average income of the $17 000 lease we did in the third quarter.
The other is what the average rent is across the entire portfolio today.
So front Fred you...
Yes.
In terms of the average rent as percent of income right now today we're sitting at 17.4%.
Yes the median is 22.7% but the average is 17.4% and the -- when we look at the income -- average monthly household income versus the rent actually since the beginning of this year our incomes have been growing just slightly faster than the rents which is very encouraging to see.
And this number really has not moved.
In January it was 17.7% July I think we mentioned in the last call it was 17.6% and today it's 17.4%.
So it's all kind of clustered right there -- and so over the last year or so has not budged.
Going back 10 years -- it's really not a valid comparison because our portfolio have changed so much.
We no longer have those -- the bulk of our portfolio in the Sunbelt and the markets with lower rents lower income.
So really -- in the -- our current portfolio the more relevant is like what's happening in the last couple of years and it stayed very healthy and then on the margin getting a little bit better.
So what was the peak number that you had say back in '06 where you had the higher end in '07.
What was that number at that point and before you started to see push back on rent or people moving to B-quality product? Yes.
I don't have that number handy but I can tell you that we don't see a lot of pushback on the rents.
Earlier I mentioned San Francisco is the only market that we see a little bit of that on anecdotal-basis and did show in our reasons to move out.
Again it's a very small move everywhere else very consistent.
As Dave mentioned earlier the balance sheet and the income statement of our residents is very strong and getting better.
The credit is good.
So we've got that demographic that has great paying jobs you want a great lifestyle in an urban setting and we're -- that's where we're enjoying.
Okay.
And then just lastly David you had talked a little bit about the DC market I'm just curious given growing concerns about deficit cuts and all these other items.
I mean you have any thought process in terms of reducing your exposure in DC maybe using those investments sort of in California where you're seeing an acceleration in rent? Well we did sell a large portfolio of assets in suburban D.C.
earlier this year for $250 million all paid in Maryland.
So we have done that.
And DC is a market in which we've sold older more outlined properties and reinvested that capital into a more into the district and in Northern Virginia.
But certainly and Fred went through I think a pretty good detail the way we're looking at D.C.
and thinking about jobs as well as thinking about supply and it certainly is market we're going to keep a close eye on.
And our next question comes from the line of Haendel St.
Juste with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones for me.
One I guess going back to your Palo Palto deal you're looking at for a sec that potential acquisition which we understand is more of an affordable nature would mark a meaningful departure from your recent focus on higher-quality assets over the past few years.
Is that primarily a function pricing opportunity or maybe representing more concerted effort to introduce more B-quality assets to your portfolio? I guess we'd think about that portfolio as workforce housing.
And I guess I think I tried to say and dealt over the last few calls that we're focused more on markets and while we did buy and will continue to buy if we can find higher quality product at prices that we think make sense.
Much of the acquisition activity that we've done since pricing has recovered has been in lesser quality product.
And so I think that this is looked at as -- looking at wanting to add assets on the Peninsula and here is a portfolio that we think if it can be done at the right price will represent a good opportunity to do so.
So I think we've been more about locations and markets and not simply about quality of asset.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one more just going back to your answer on a recent question for some clarification.
Looking across the spectrum of quality -- the quality spectrum for deals you're bidding on can you discuss any changes that you're seeing in the number of bidders as well as the type of bidders and have you seen any narrowing or change in the bid/ask spread? Well I guess I can only tell you -- is that our acquisition guys report to me that they are seeing fewer competitors but there's still a sufficient number of competitors to make pricing consistent over the past 6 or so months.
So while 6 months ago there might have been -- however many countries and however many tours and offers and people invited to -- in the best in finals they're are probably fewer in each of one those stages but they're still enough that the ultimate outcome is consistent pricing.
And sir there are no further questions at this time.
So I'll turn it back to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you Jo.
Just a couple of things.
I just want to make sure that we put the 11% in Orange County in perspective.
I know David said this and I just do want to reiterate that.
That comes from a function of increasing rents today but more from the fact that rents were decreasing a year ago.
So while that percentage of 11% or so potential sounds very high a lot of it has become is because of the downturn that we are experiencing a year ago in the comp period that that represents.
So we've talked about rising rents yes.
The 11% is relative to where rents were a year ago and they were decreasing.
So with that let me just say in closing I want to say a brief word about our dear friend Bill Acheson who was killed recently went struck by a car while riding his bicycle.
Bill was a long time REIT guy who covered EQR and other companies for many many years.
We really enjoy working with Bill.
We'll miss him in Dallas in a few weeks but we'll look forward to seeing everyone else there.
Appreciate your time in the call and we'll see you in Dallas.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using ACT Conferencing.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Equity Residential's Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Thursday February 2 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Camille.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's fourth quarter 2011 results and our outlook for 2012.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; Fred Tuomi our EVP of Property Management; David Santee our EVP of Property Operations; and Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn it over to our team for their comments I want to point out an error contingent of the release we issued yesterday.
On Page 12 of the release the data for our same-store year-over-year turnover is incorrect as we inadvertently calculated the numbers using 9/30 year-to-date data.
The full year 2011 number should be 57.8% instead of 44.4% and the full year 2010 number should be 56.9% instead of 44.1%.
Fred Tuomi will provide some color on our expectations for 2012 turnover in his remarks.
We apologize for this error and we'll issue an updated release after our call.
And we thank Dave Bragg from Zelman &amp; Associates for catching this error and bringing it to our attention.
Lastly let me remind you that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn the call over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
We're extremely pleased with the company's operating performance in the fourth quarter which wrapped up a very good year for Equity Residential.
And on behalf of everyone here we want to thank the thousands of our colleagues across the country that continue to deliver these very strong results for us.
Our same-store net operating income for the full year of 7.7% was nearly spot-on the high end of the guidance range we gave you exactly 1 year ago.
And this performance was a result of continued strength in fundamentals driven by a huge demographic of our population that is not just simply in their prime rental years but one that's currently shunning the commitment and financial risk of single-family homeownership and is instead embracing the optionality and flexibility the lifestyle really provided by rental housing.
At the same time new supply has been severely limited in some markets and almost nonexistent in others.
And this leads to tight markets with high retention low vacancy and rising rental rates.
So we're very confident that 2012 will be another very good year.
And Fred Tuomi is going to take a moment now and take you through the baseline assumptions for our key revenue drivers for this year.
Thank you David.
So as noted in our press release last night our guidance for 2012 revenue growth is between 5% and 6%.
And we continue to see strength in virtually all of our markets actually in all of our markets and the fundamental factors of supply and demand remain in our favor.
The combined forces of demographics household formations and the continued aversion to homeownership will ensure a strong demand for rental housing.
And this is further supported by gradual improvements in job creation especially within our younger college-educated urban cohort for unemployment now stands at 4.1% versus 8.5% overall.
Our resident base is very healthy due to its high level of employment good income growth and a demonstrated ability and desire to pay higher rents for quality rental housing.
On average as a percent of income our rent is currently 17.2%.
This is a very good number and actually down slightly from last quarter.
And this is versus the 33% threshold we typically use to qualify new applicants.
And the household income of new residents acquired in 2011 was 4.4% greater than those residents moving in with us during 2010.
So this year some of the strongest revenue growth will come from Boston New York and San Francisco.
And in these key markets we see continued stability in the financial sector and continued growth from technology new media business services and the health sciences.
The more challenging markets will include San Diego and to no surprise the D.C.
Metro area.
So regarding our 2012 revenue guidance I'll again discuss the 4 key drivers in more detail.
And those are: resident turnover; our physical occupancy; base rent pricing meaning net effective rates on new leases; and then our renewal pricing.
The first turnover.
One of the benefits we've seen from this renter nation phenomenon is structurally lower resident turnover and this has been evident since really late 2008 and 2009.
In 2011 as rents were recovering turnover actually increased slightly but well inside of our expectations that we gave to you last year.
So our turnover assumption for this year's same-store set is 58% which is up slightly from the prior year.
Occupancy.
Our occupancy assumption is 95.2% which is no change from 2011.
So with relatively stable turnover solid occupancy the revenue forecast really comes again down to rate meaning base rents for new leases and then the achieved renewal rates.
So base rent pricing.
Coming into 2012 what we said right now today our base rents are up 7% over the same time last year.
We feel very good about this and the forward trend for the next several weeks looks very encouraging.
Throughout this year base rents will follow the typical seasonal pattern this means that we'll have continued growth from Q1 and Q2 we'll strike an interyear peak in Q3 and then the typical seasonal softening into Q4.
So on average over the year 2012 we expect these base rents to run approximately 5.5% above the 2011 levels.
And this implies a narrowing as we approach the peak Q3 comp period of last year.
And finally renewal pricing.
We achieved renewal increases above 6% during the fourth quarter and this trend is continuing as we've turned the corner into this year.
January renewals are now done at 6.7%.
February is at 6.2% so far and we've booked 1 800 March renewals at an average increase of 6.1%.
So for the full year 2012 we expect average renewal increases of between 5% and 6%.
And this also implies a narrowing as we again approach the peak Q3 comp period of 2011.
So to recap our explanation of our guidance we expect turnover up slightly to 58% on the 2012 same-store set occupancy very steady at 95.2% average base rent pricing growth of 5.5% and average renewal increases of between 5% and 6%.
Therefore the revenue growth for the full year 2012 should come in between 5% and 6%.
David? All right.
Thanks Fred.
So as Fred said the midpoint of our 2012 same-store guidance then is 5.5% and that's actually 50 basis points higher than our actual results for 2011.
I'll have to say that 2011 had a much easier comp set than 2012 will.
So clearly we see continued strength in fundamentals across our markets.
Now in addition to delivering great top line growth over the last several years we've worked very hard to make our operations more efficient and that's following an extensive review of our operating model several years ago.
This has led a compounded annual growth in same-store expenses of just over 1 percentage point in each of the last 5 years.
And our guidance for 2012 same-store expense growth is 1.5% to 2.5%.
And David Santee is now going to break that down and give you some color as to how we're getting to this range.
Okay.
Thank you David.
For more color on our 2012 guidance for same-store property expense I'll start with the 3 key drivers that account for 68% of total operating expense.
These are real estate taxes utilities and payroll.
The headline for 2012 expense guidance can best be explained by this what the gas man giveth the tax man taketh away.
As expected real estate taxes are on the rise and account for 29% of all expenses.
On a GAAP basis for 2012 and GAAP is gross taxes net of all appeals and refunds we would expect to see a year-over-year increase of 4% to 5%.
1/3 or approximately 160 basis points of this GAAP increase of 4% to 5% is a result of our scheduled 421a tax abatement burnoff on 5 New York City assets.
Given our ongoing portfolio transformation Florida remains the only significant state with a potential to surprise and adversely impact overall expectations.
Utilities and energy which account for 16% of operating expense continue to move in opposite directions.
Water sewer and trash utilities continue to grow well above inflationary levels as municipalities scramble for revenue to deal with aging and antiquated infrastructure as well as finding alternative measures to dispose of waste.
It's also important to note that we recover over 83% of this expense on an annual basis through our Resident Utility Billing System or what we called RUBS.
Offsetting this growth was our decision to ride the natural gas market to new 3-year lows versus our execution of our annual rate lock in the deregulated Northeast markets.
By our measure lower natural gas rates should also lead to lower electricity costs as generation plants move away from coal as a result of more stringent emission requirements and a glut of natural gas.
Additionally our internal initiatives around waste management will also mitigate rate growth in this area in the near-term resulting in a year-over-year growth rate for all utilities of 1.5% to 2.5%.
For on-site payroll which represents almost 23% of total operating expense we expect a year-over-year growth rate in the 1% range.
Our laser focus on leveraging technology and automation continue to provide benefits that mitigate our annual merit increases and allow us to find optimal staffing levels across all asset types.
All other account groups making up the remaining 32% of operating expense contribute an additional 20 to 40 basis points of growth with property insurance up 6% to 7% and leasing and advertising costs down 7% to 9%.
Maintenance property management and other operating expenses combined are expected to be flat.
With that said we're extremely pleased with our ability to deliver another year of exceptional performance in managing our costs while continuing to increase our customer loyalty employee engagement and other internal quality metrics.
David? Terrific.
Thanks a lot David.
Well turning now to transaction activity you'll recall that we suggested at the beginning of last year that we expected our acquisition activity to be very lumpy and indeed it was having closed more than 50% of the entire year's acquisitions in the fourth quarter alone.
In the quarter we acquired 11 assets representing 3 669 units for $681 million.
4 of these were in Southern California 3 in Northern California 2 in Boston and 1 each in Brooklyn New York and Bethesda Maryland.
Lastly we also continue to sell noncore assets and reduce our overall exposure to noncore markets.
We sold 47 assets during the year or just under $1.5 billion at a weighted average cap rate of 6.5% and realized a weighted average unleveraged IRR inclusive of management costs of 11.1%.
And again a very lumpy activity with nearly 80% of these or $1.2 billion being done in the first half of the year when we aggressively hit good bids for our noncore assets after which time we had to take a breather and let our acquisition activity catch up.
We begin 2012 looking at the transaction market as very similar to last year and that means an awful lot of capital chasing relatively little supply in our core markets as well as continued demand for assets in noncore markets with a cap rate spread between the 2 that remains as wide as we've seen for quite some time.
Now brokers are telling us that they're being asked by owners to value more core assets which lead these brokers to believe that more product might be coming to market.
But I'll tell you we haven't seen it yet.
And cap rates on core product in our markets across country today remain in the 4s as investors continue to underwrite strong revenue growth for the next several years as well as enjoy a low interest rate environment.
With the acquisition market intensely competitive in 2011 last year was a big year for our development business.
We started construction on 6 projects last year totaling $656 million in completed costs.
Now of that $423 million is really our share because 2 of those deals that we started were done with a joint venture with an institutional partner.
We expect our 2011 development starts to deliver weighted average yields in the low 6s at today's rents and we started 3 of these in the fourth quarter.
The Madison in Alexandria Virginia $115 million total cost we have an expectation of a yield in the mid-6s on current rents in The Madison.
We started the deal in Ballard Washington our Market Street Landing property with a $90 million total cost and a low 6% expected yield on current rents.
And we also started construction on the second phase of a property in Pasadena California for $125 million total cost at a high 4% or low 5% expected current yield on that property.
During 2011 we also acquired 6 land parcels that entered into a 1 long-term ground lease all for future development totaling $725 million of new product.
4 of these properties or these parcels were acquired in the fourth quarter.
A property in San Francisco's Mission Bay area for 273 units $154 million total cost at a high 5% yield expected on current rents.
We also acquired a land parcel on Anaheim California for 220 units $52 million total cost and a low 6% yield expected on current rents.
And also a parcel in West Seattle Washington for 206 units and $62 million of total cost where we expect a 6% yield on current rents.
Lastly we also acquired a site in Manhattan the southwest corner of Park Avenue South and East 28th Street.
That property was acquired with Toll Brothers with whom we will develop -- co-develop a 40-story building on the site.
Of the $134 million paid for that land parcel $76 million was contributed by Equity and $58 million was contributed by Toll Brothers.
When completed EQR will own 6 500 square feet of ground floor retail and 265 rental apartments on floor 2 through 22 and Toll will own and sell as condos 99 units on floors 23 through 40.
Now Equity Residential's total cost or what we will own at the end of the day is $238 million.
That's $897 000 a door and a little more than $1 000 per square foot.
Well we've underwritten an expected yield on current rents in the mid-5s.
Now I'll tell you current rents of what we underwrote were rents in the mid-$6 rent per square foot and we're very pleased to report that our recently completed Ten23 asset on the High Line in Chelsea is at lease-up today and achieving numbers in excess of that.
And as described in the footnotes in last night's press release until the core and shell are complete we will own the land and building in a joint venture with Toll.
And as a result we will have to consolidate all the costs for that project while it's consolidated.
At that time though the core and shell are complete our interest will be converted into condominium interest.
They'll own their floors we'll own our floors each subject to a master condominium regime and we will no longer consolidate Toll's interest in the building.
So in 2012 we currently expect to be in a position to start 8 projects representing 2 014 units totaling $750 million of total development costs.
These land sites are all currently on our balance sheet but will be by the end of February.
We have 2 in New York City 2 in South Florida 2 in Seattle and 1 each in Southern California and D.C.
Current underwriting suggests the yield line costs in the low 6s on current rents on these assets and we're very excited to soon add them to our portfolio.
I'll turn then the call now over to Mark.
Thanks David.
This morning I'm really going to focus on 2 areas.
First our recent financing activity in our balance sheet and as you can see from the release we're very busy in that area this quarter as well as our 2012 guidance.
So we've been busy both refinancing our 2011 and early 2012 debt maturities and also lining up financing for our potential acquisition of an interest in Archstone.
So the first thing we really needed to do is to address our 2011 and early 2012 debt maturities.
Up until December of 2011 we had raised almost no money in the debt markets to finance 2011 debt maturities of about $1.1 billion so we had some work to do.
There were really 2 reasons for that.
Our large cash balance through most of 2011 as David said we were big net disposers early in 2011 and the existence of our interest rate hedges.
So through the third quarter of '11 we were such a large net seller that the substantial excess cash we had we invested temporarily in repaying our debt.
As I said in my third quarter earnings call remarks it was always our intention to reborrow these funds once acquisition activity caught up with dispositions.
As I also said on the third quarter call we expected a catch-up in investment activity to occur in the fourth quarter and that indeed is what occurred.
We also had about $750 million in interest rate hedges which locked in a borrowing rate for us.
So on to the specifics.
We did $1 billion unsecured notes offering in early December 2011.
These notes mature December 15 2021.
They have a coupon rate of 4.625% and an all-in effective rate of about 6.2%.
And that includes the effective fees and interest rate hedges.
And really most of that difference between the 4.625% and the 6.2% is the amortization of the $150 million in swap termination costs that the company incurred.
So we were very pleased with how the fixed income offering went.
We had a terrific response from our investors.
We had over $3 billion in solid demand and that allowed us to substantially tighten the spread and increase the size of the offering.
The remaining proceeds from this offering which sit now on our balance sheet in cash will be used to repay the $250 million in unsecured debt that matures in March of 2012.
And this prefunding will lower 2012 Normalized FFO by about $0.01.
Now just a comment on the ATM.
As many of you know we use the ATM primarily to fund our normal investment activity including our increased development activity.
So we did access the ATM program in the fourth quarter.
We issued about 828 000 common shares at an average price of $57.31 per share for total consideration of approximately $47.4 million.
And we did access the ATM again in January 2012.
We issued about 201 000 common shares at an average price of $57.87 per share for total consideration of $11.6 million.
And there is no other ATM activity contemplated in our 2012 guidance.
And now just a bit of background on how we thought about financing the Archstone acquisition.
In December when we made our offer we created a situation where we needed to have substantial and certain liquidity available if we were successful but we did not want to burden our balance sheet with the cash if we were not successful.
In other words we wanted certain but contingent capital.
To accomplish this we began by entering into $1 billion bridge loan and that was done simultaneously with announcing the Archstone acquisition in early December.
The bridge gets expensive the longer it stays outstanding so we very quickly replaced the bridge with a $500 million expansion of our existing unsecured line of credit and a new $500 million delayed draw term loan both of which are cost-effective contingent and could be available to us Archstone or not.
So just a few points on the expanded revolver and the delayed draw term loan.
The revolver expansion took our overall revolver size to $1.75 billion.
It did not change our July 2014 maturity date or any of the other important terms in that facility.
The cost in 2012 from the revolver expansion will be about $1.9 million and that will reduce Normalized FFO.
Now a comment on the delayed draw term loan which is a very interesting and useful financial tool.
It operates much like a bridge loan except it's cheaper more flexible and has a longer term.
At any time up to July 4 2012 the company can draw on the delayed draw term loan for any reason.
The spread on it is 1.25% over LIBOR and that's based on the company's current credit rating.
Our guidance assumes that we'll draw on this loan in July of this year July of 2012 until we pay at par the existing $500 million term loan that matures in October 2012.
And this is the only material debt activity that company is budgeting in 2012.
Fees from the delayed draw term loan will be about $1.9 million in 2012 and will reduce Normalized FFO.
And I just want to express the company's appreciation for the overwhelming support we received from our bank group in the revolver syndication process and the delayed draw term loan syndication process.
Both transactions were well oversubscribed.
So with these financing activities we created ample liquidity not only for our normal investment activity and upcoming debt maturities but also for our pursuit of an interest in Archstone.
A few more notes on the balance sheet and then I'll move on to guidance.
In 2012 we expect to have free cash flow from operations of about $150 million.
This is after capital expenditures including rehab spending and after payment of our expected higher dividend.
David Neithercut mentioned that we could start up to $750 million in development deals in 2012.
We expect to spend about $250 million on construction in 2012 including projects already in progress and projects slated to start.
That $250 million amount does not include any yet-to-be-identified land acquisitions.
We'll continue to be conservative in financing our development business.
We'll use proceeds mostly from dispositions free cash flow from operations and the ATM.
This increase in development activity will result in an increase in capitalized interest which I'll go over with you in a moment when we go through guidance.
As of today cash on hand including 10/31 escrow balances stands at about $375 million.
The revolving line of credit has about $1.72 billion in capacity and the $500 million delayed draw term loan is undrawn.
At the end of 2012 we expect to be on our line to the tune of about $200 million.
So let's go through guidance here.
Normalized FFO guidance range for 2012 is $2.68 to $2.78.
The $2.73 midpoint would be a 12% increase over our 2011 results.
As usual the biggest driver is our same-store operations and Fred Tuomi and David Santee have already capably described that.
But that same-store line will generate about $0.28 we think in incremental Normalized FFO.
Our nonsame-store properties led about $0.04 more of FFO to our Normalized FFO to our 2012 numbers.
Our interest expense is going to increase Normalized FFO by about $0.01 but there's a bit going on here and I just want to go through that.
We will benefit from the $0.04 per share of higher capitalized interest due to this increased development activity that both I and David Neithercut have referred to.
And we'll also have $0.04 of benefit from lower secured debt balances.
Almost all the debt that was repaid in 2011 was secured debt.
And that's going to be offset by about $0.06 per share of increased interest expense due to higher weighted average amounts of unsecured debt.
So again this prefunding activity this $1 billion issuance is going to create a higher unsecured debt balance for us.
It also includes the swap termination cost I referred to.
And we're going to have $0.01 negative from these facility fees from the revolver and the expanded revolver and the new delayed draw term loan.
So again about $0.08 to the good and about $0.07 to the bad nets out to about $0.01 to the good on interest expense for 2012.
The last big driver is share count dilution.
We expect our average share count to be about 5 million shares higher in 2012 than 2011.
This will cost us about a $0.03 drag on Normalized FFO.
This is mostly a result of employee stock option exercises in 2011 getting the share count for a full year in 2012 as well as expected 2012 employee stock option activity.
We also expect to issue 1 million operating partnership units which count as shares of course in our share count in connection with the planned 2012 acquisition and all of that is in our guidance right now.
A relatively small amount about $0.01 negative of the $0.03 negative is the result of issuance that has already occurred on our ATM.
As I said previously no further ATM activity is contemplated in our guidance.
Just a reminder all the numbers I've just gone through are on a Normalized FFO basis.
Our guidance on Page 27 in the press releases is also on a Normalized FFO basis only.
And on Page 28 we gave you all the information you need to reconcile Normalized FFO to either FFO as defined by NAREIT or to EPS.
And finally let me just reiterate that our earnings per share guidance FFO guidance and Normalized FFO guidance assume no impact positive or negative from Archstone.
Further because our Normalized FFO definition is designed to eliminate noncomparable items things like pursuit cost and break-up fees will not be included in our Normalized FFO guidance or results in any event.
Now I'll finish up with capital expenditures.
So guidance for total capital expenditures in 2012 is $850 per same-store unit without rehabs and about $1 225 including rehabs.
And in 2011 we spent about $850 per same-store unit without rehabs and we spent about $1 200 when we included rehabs so a slight increase this year.
And details on all of our capital expenditures are on Page 24.
We rehabbed about 5 400 units in 2011 and we expect to rehab about 4 700 units in 2012.
In 2012 we expect to spend about $8 300 per unit rehab and that's up about $1 300 from the $7 000 we spent per unit in 2011.
We're going to be doing more rehabs this year in higher cost markets like New York and we'll be replacing carpet with more costly hard surface flooring which we believe in the future will lower our replacement costs.
Now I'll turn the call back over to David Neithercut.
All right.
Thanks Mark.
So before we open the call to questions let me just say a few more words about Archstone.
And there's really not much I can say and certainly not much more than I can say than what many of you already know and we mentioned in the press release last night.
But let me say that the Lehman estate has always had the right to match our first offer.
They had an ace an ace of trump if you will and they played it.
And they did match our offer and they acquired the first half of the bank's interest that we put in play late last year.
We are currently now inside a 30-day window during which time the banks are obligated to contract with us to sell the second half of their interest in Archstone provided we offer to do so at a price that's no less than $1.325 billion.
That's the same amount that we offered on their first half.
Now I will tell you we've not yet made any such offer although I expect that we certainly would.
But we're not obligated to do so.
And any offer that we do make will again be subject to Lehman's right to match it.
And if they do we'll receive a break-up fee that's a function of the size of our bid.
And that break-up fee could be as little as 0 or as much as $80 million.
I'd tell you we continue to think that much of the Archstone portfolio would fit hand-in-glove with ours.
As Mark said we certainly have the capacity to pay for it.
Stay tuned more to come.
So with that operator we'll be happy to open the call to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from the line of Andrew McCulloch with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk a little bit about the trajectory of asset values in the quarter and if you saw any big divergence between markets and/or product quality? I'm kind of just looking at the momentum of asset values.
Of what we've acquired or just what we're looking at? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just what you're seeing in the market overall.
Well look generally let me tell you that we think that asset values today could be above peak levels in Boston in Denver in L.A.
and San Diego.
We think they're kind of back to peak levels in Orange County and D.C.
and they're still below in Seattle New York City and South Florida as well as the commodity markets in the Northern Florida Atlanta and Phoenix.
I'd tell you recently I don't think we've seen a great deal of change Andy in those values.
But I'll tell you that there hasn't been much transaction activities so the data set is reasonably small.
Our team led by Alan George thinks that we're probably within the range of values across those markets and will likely stay within the current range of values for some time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then on supply.
We know supply is not a big concern nationally this year.
But can you talk about any specific markets or submarkets that maybe you're worried about actually near-term? Yes Andy this is Fred Tuomi.
I can talk about that.
Really looking at this year there's really no markets that I'm concerned about this year and same for 2011.
And we had very good environment of low supply there.
But where there's concern is kind of the building pipeline in a couple of markets and most notably is the D.C.
market.
And there's a lot to talk about D.C.
and which ways it's going to go on the demand side as well as supply.
So D.C.
has demonstrated it can absorb a lot of units.
It absorbed a lot while the government was growing so if the government becomes a factor in terms of either stopping the growth or receiving then the coming supply pipeline is going to be an issue there.
So in D.C.
we see about between 6 000 7 000 maybe 7 500 units coming in 2012 depending on what actually gets delivered.
And then right behind that the next year you can see maybe another 7 000 8 000 units.
So D.C.
has got the #1 supply issue.
Beyond that there's really no real markets of concern in New York no; Seattle a couple thousand units but kind of distributed equally; San Jose a couple thousand units but I think we have plenty of demand to absorb that; and L.A maybe San Fernando Valley again but again small numbers.
So really it boils down to D.C.
is going to be the issue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one more question on capital recycling.
David you had mentioned you talked a little bit about cap rates in your prepared remarks in core versus noncore markets and that that spread is as wide as you've ever seen.
Given that you're planning over $1 billion in capital recycling in '12 does that mean you think that spread is still not wide enough? No I guess I'd tell you Andy what we've given you in our guidance not so much of what we think our budget is for sales or budget is for acquisitions but more to tell you that embedded in our guidance is that assumption.
Not unlike the beginning of last year we'll go into this year and we'll try and transact if it makes sense to do so and we won't if it doesn't.
So it's very difficult for us today to tell you exactly what we'll do on the buy side and the sell side.
Our expectation frankly is that delta will narrow that there just continues to be an awful lot of capital.
We think that capital will be forced into the noncore markets or lesser-quality assets and we'll see a little bit more competitive pricing on that and that will bring that cap rate down somewhat.
But again I'm not quite sure I said we thought that delta was as wide as we've ever seen.
We just said it's been the widest we've seen for quite some time.
I would tell you I think maybe 125 or so basis points is somewhat of a normal level over an extended time period we've seen that narrow to as little as 60.
It was 130 or so in 2011.
But I just do want to make the point that that was wide it was one -- on the wide as I remember [ph] but we do expect it could narrow during the year as capital gets forced into lesser core assets and noncore markets.
And our next question is from the line of Dave Bragg with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> A related question.
If we go back a year and think about your disposition activity at the beginning of '11 it seemed to be front end-loaded due in part to your view of a risk to higher interest rates over the course of the year.
And now the outlook is agreeably quite different.
Could you talk about how that plays into your strategy on the transaction front? Sure.
So we did start 2011 Dave -- and by the way thank you for your catch on our earnings release last night.
We did start 2011 with a desire to sort of hedge somewhat in what we thought could be risks of value of noncore product just as a result of Fannie and Freddie and uncertainty in issues like that.
I think we're in a point today where we've done an awful lot of that heavy lifting.
I don't think that while we continue to have questions about Fannie and Freddie we don’t think that there's anything imminent.
They did big volume last year and I'll tell you after being in South Florida earlier in January they continue to talk about doing big volumes again this year.
But I'll also tell you that last year we were seeing what we thought were very reasonable prices per door prices per square foot on that product.
And we went ahead and hit that bid.
I think that we'll continue to sell those assets or those noncore assets noncore markets today provided we find opportunities to reinvest that capital.
And as Mark noted one such opportunity is the development pipeline that will be up in 2011 and will be up again in 2012 and likely 2013.
But I don't think that you'll see the rush to transact that we started in 2011 just as -- that we did as a hedge to what could happen evaluations of those lesser-quality products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then shifting over to expenses.
On real estate taxes specifically can you talk a little bit more about the outlook in some of your major markets? You touched on New York and I think we could understand where you might lie on California.
But can you talk through some of the other major markets in terms of your outlook and the risk to that outlook given the different timelines in each? Dave this is David Santee.
When you look at the distribution of our increase 34% of our increase is coming from the 421a burnoff.
And then I mentioned the volatility of Florida.
When you look at these other states California especially -- beyond that there's just not a whole lot of risk.
But California we're subject to the 2% cap of the Prop 13.
And even in New Jersey and some other locations the ability to predict or at least understand what the ceiling is on real estate taxes from year-over-year is just much more transparent.
So in the case of Florida we won't know what actual rates are probably until October November.
And so we're having to make some assumptions there just as we make assumptions every single year on our ability to drive lower valuations or win appeals.
And then I'll just add an additional piece of color.
When you look back going back all the way to 2001 the highest increase in real estate taxes that we've had occurred in 2007 2008.
2007 was 5.6% and 2008 was 5.0%.
And so I think given that our industry really experienced a V-shaped recovery perhaps this year is just a recapture and we could see a little more stability after 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question on expenses.
Can you just put in perspective for us what you're doing on the payroll line? Perhaps talk about -- I don't know if you could relate it back to the number of people on site per 100 units or another metric such as that and then compare that to what those on a same-store basis might be seeing in terms of wage growth.
Just help us understand how this continues to be a flat line item.
Dave that's like asking me to give you the formula to Coca-Cola.
Now really it really is -- we continue to focus on specialization.
Our industry the folks at the site they're running little cities so they have to be well-versed in many different activities.
And basically when you're doing a lot of things you don't do anything great.
You just do a lot of things okay.
And so what we've really tried to focus on is carving out specialized groups whether it's procurement obviously the pricing.
We're in the final stages of centralizing our CBG group into Phoenix which is really that is the key driver of some of our payroll growth where we really just kind of peeled 400 some assistant managers out of the equation with an average salary of -- base salary of $35 000.
And we backfilled not all of those bodies but we did backfill some of that headcount with additional salespeople or customer service people with a base salary in the $25 000 range.
So we're still seeing some favorable impacts of that.
And then for this year we're even seeing efficiencies in that CBG group.
We started with 50 people in that group.
2012 we'll operate at about 36 folks.
So our ability to automate kind of -- instead of doing all the calculations the cash register does it for you.
We just continue to see benefits from this approach.
And our next question is from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that New York was one of your top markets this year.
But just thinking about what's happened on the compensation side across the major banks and financial institutions I'm wondering if you've started to see any sort of weakness in New York City markets or if there's any hesitancy you're seeing among the tenant base there.
Yes this is Fred again.
I'm happy to say no.
And I stay very close in touch with the New York market.
I love talking to our people there.
And still even though there's some -- more talk about cutbacks or lack of growth in the financial sector again in our properties our resident base we are not seeing any job loss and people leaving the market.
It's very solid.
And we're actually seeing growth in the area from some new sectors as I think I mentioned last quarter.
And that's the tech sector and the new media sector and some entertainment sector.
It's become very vogue for companies like Google and a lot of these other tech companies to be hanging out around Chelsea neighborhood in New York City having a presence there.
So we're seeing strong demand very strong demand at the high end.
Again our penthouse units our larger units our combined units and all the submarkets are well occupied they're full.
We're seeing very little kind of deviant behavior from our private competitors there meaning concessions and the broker fees.
There's still some of that in the downtown market but very few compared to the last couple of years.
And so I think New York is very solid and we're bullish on it.
The current trend is still very favorable.
And David mentioned Ten23 our building there on the High Line at Chelsea and we were very confident on that one.
I think we hit the timing just right with that one and it's a great building and a fantastic location.
And we took a little bit of a risk on the lease-up in that we decided to do it with no upfront concessions no discounts whatsoever where we just took the confidence route.
And we actually released our highest ticket units for the lease-up for the prelease-up.
We held the studios the lower-priced tickets back.
And fortunately that worked quite well.
And so we preleased over 20% of those units before we opened.
We opened right on time and so we're leased like 25% now and actually occupied about 15%.
And the kind of weird thing about that one is that the bigger the unit the higher the rent per square foot.
Our 3-bedroom unit that we leased was $8.90 a foot okay? But on average we're now at a little over $7 a foot.
And as you remember our underwriting on that one was about $5.60.
So we're thrilled with the demand there.
And again that's fueled by this cohort of the young people highly employed making good wages and from great sectors who want to live right where the action is.
Research Division</strong> Right that's very helpful.
I guess we're probably more biased on our end in terms of what we're seeing.
But just trying to get a sense of what the exposure is to financial institutions I mean do you track what percentage of your residence work at I guess those institutions? And is it a large number like a 10% to 20%? Or is it pretty irrelevant kind of like in the low single-digits? Anyone in business New York is going to be dependent upon to certain extent either directly or indirectly to your industry the financial services sector.
We look at that and we're not concerned about a heavy concentration.
In Jersey City at our 70 Greene building we do have a lot of Goldman employees.
But recently as last week they're continuing to bring people in.
So yes we have that exposure if there was a mass layoff in that sector but I think it's well-distributed amongst the firms and in the neighborhoods.
And again the neat thing is on the margin.
The marginal growth of our demand there seems to be kind of led by this tech new media entertainment lawyers business services in addition to the finance.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then last question for the Toll Brothers deal that you're doing.
I think you said rents were in the mid $6 a foot range or that's where you intended them to be.
Just curious whether it's going to be more expensive to rent there or just to pay a mortgage on the condos that Toll is selling.
Well I did say that we underwrote Eric $6.5 or so rents per square foot.
And who knows where the condos will be sold? I think it'll be quite some time won't be until 2014 2015 when those condos will be sold.
So my expectation is I believe it will be -- we'll continue to be cheaper to rent.
And our next question is from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I believe on the last conference call you had talked about renewal rates increasing I'm going to say I think it was 7.4% in November 8% in December 8.3% January.
And I know those weren't your full resident base that was rolling at that time.
But those actual renewal numbers came in for instance in the month of January I think was 160 bps [ph] lower.
Were you surprised at that sort of differential between where you saw things back in the last conference call and where you are today on renewals? Yes this is Fred again.
I think what you're referring to was our quoted rates versus the achieved rates and there's always a spread between those.
We priced our renewals forward-looking.
We see the trend where prices are going to be not where they are today.
So we'll price pretty aggressively and then we'll actually quote above that.
So it gives us plenty of room on the quote the forward quotes.
And then if rents escalate faster than we expected then we kind of hit right on the mark.
If they don't then maybe we have a little bit of a margin where we can negotiate down.
And we always give in the system just a little sliver of negotiating room for our folks to get the deal done to a point where we don't have excessive turnover.
So there's always going to be a gap a spread between what we quote and then what we actually at the end of the day on any given month.
So those numbers of 7.5% and 8% were forward quote numbers that we talked about last quarter and then what we achieved were in the mid-6s.
So that delta's going to be anywhere from 150 sometime some month maybe 200 basis points depending on the trajectory of the rents.
So that's continued what we see right now.
So I said we achieved 6.7% in January we actually quoted in January 8.7% so it's a 200 basis points spread there.
At February we're quoting an 8.1% and I mentioned we're so far it's not done yet and that would probably come up.
But so far we've achieved about 6.2%.
So again you're going to be anywhere from 150 to 200 basis points spread between quote achieved.
Research Division</strong> That's where I was going.
So for February and March those are about 6.2% and 6.1% numbers you gave those are actuals those are not the quotes.
Yes those are actual booked signed leases in the hopper right now against quotes in the high 7s low 8s.
And those are early returns so to speak.
And by the time we actually close out the month I think those numbers will move up a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay understood.
David you had referenced earlier in the call that you thought cap rates in core markets were in the 4s I think was your statement.
And when I look back over the last year on the $1 billion plus you've acquired I think it was around 5.2% or so.
How should we be thinking about reconciling the difference in those numbers? Have you just been that good of an acquirer? Or is there a little apples and oranges in those statements? Well I guess if you go back to prior calls we talked a lot about -- we were big acquirers of that core product in '09 in the first half of 2010.
And then that market got very competitive and we started to look for good acquisition opportunities that might not be the core stuff that a lot of this new money would be chasing.
And so we started buying some older assets some assets that needed repositioning.
We bought a very interesting asset in East Palo Alto California a 6.5% cap rate and $71 000 per door.
So we started doing some direct deals.
So when I give you this cap rate number I'm telling you Ross that that's what we're suggesting are the rates for recently built kind of core product.
And we bought some older product again some stuff that needed repositioning as well we've done some things direct that we think have maybe given us a little more yield than what the market might have provided.
Research Division</strong> That's perfect understood.
Last question when all is said and done on Archstone if I take the assumption for a minute that Lehman exercises their final ROFO ballpark where are your total cost on the transaction if I add up legal and advisory and financing? Do you have sort of a rough guesstimate as to where all those come in? So Ross it's Mark Parrell.
We gave some idea just historical cost back in our reconciliation page that's Page 26.
So we've incurred right now about call it $4.5 million worth of costs as it relates mostly to the financing activity but also the pursuit cost.
I would think if the transaction ended up the way you described we'd certainly have several hundred thousand dollars more of legal and other fees to get ourselves under contract go through the process with the banks and then be ROFO-ed away.
So I see that as almost certain that the cost would be kind of all-in $5 million to $5.5 million.
If the transaction goes another way of course then it could be a considerably larger amount of transaction costs.
But most of the cost really are sunk.
It was the cost to get up to speed.
Our deal under this option with the banks is to enter into a contract that's substantially the same contract that we've already negotiated.
So Mark's point here is that not a lot of additional incremental legal expenses to incur and he's outlined the financing charges that we incurred last year as well as those that we'll have this year as a result of the expanded credit facilities as well as the delayed term loans.
So there should not be a lot of incremental costs related to Archstone to go through what would be the step 2.
And our next question is from the line of Seth Laughlin with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question that was mentioned earlier that interest rate expectations have moved decidedly lower.
I was wondering if you could just kind of give us an update and sort of how that's impacting underwriting in terms of levered and unlevered IRRs both for you guys and also what you're seeing in the market.
I think what we're trying to get to is whether those have come down with a view that the debt costs are going to be much lower than they previously thought for longer periods of time.
Well I guess I've said several times on this call that I don't think that we compete for the core product that we would like to buy with people that are that sensitive to interest rates actual borrowing rates.
I think they're probably more sensitive to just with their alternative reinvestment opportunities are for those dollars.
We are more concerned about what happens with interest rates with respect to the deals that we're trying to sell and that's why we think we've continued to see an increase in valuation over the year of what we consider to be our noncore product.
But clearly I think that with interest rates being down and given the lack of alternative investment opportunities that's brought a lot of capital into the multifamily space to chase the few core assets that are available at any given time.
Just to give you a little color on what might affect disposition values which certainly the GSE debt numbers do affect that.
We see 10-year GSE money as between 3.6% or 4% right now so very inexpensive.
But the reason I don't think it's going to necessarily help that much more on asset values in some of those disposition markets for us is that the GSEs have rate floors.
So the fact that your interest rate is 3.75% they're underwriting at a 5% 5.5% rate so your proceeds aren't going up so your leveraged IRR isn't going up that much.
And so I don't think you're getting that as a seller in your price.
So again I think just some of the adjustments the GSEs had made lately to their underwriting means that I don't think asset values will go that much higher even if rates decline somewhat because of these interest rate floors that they use for underwriting.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then again just quickly what are you guys targeting? I know it's maybe noncore but in terms of levered and unlevered IRRs today.
Well I'd tell you everything we've acquired this past year has generally been plus 8% long-term IRR.
And that's why we've sort of had to back off chasing a lot of the core product.
And I'm saying that's an unleveraged number.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then maybe just one quick follow-up for Fred.
Do you have any color in terms of how you expect D.C.
to play out inside versus outside the Beltway in 2012 any meaningful differential in performance? Well it depends on which way it goes.
If you think about D.C.
we had a very strong run there both inside and the near-term the Beltway there while the government is growing.
And even through 2009 and '10 we're delivering 7 000 units.
I mean the absorption was just phenomenal actually record-setting absorption in there.
So we kind of motored right through that.
But we can't really expect that to be sustained forever because the government is not going to continue to grow at that rate at least I hope it doesn't.
So really kind of the watchword on D.C.
right now is we have to wait a few more months and see which way this goes because government jobs have slowed it actually declined.
There's a hiring freeze and loss through attrition that all the GSA functions.
The military is kind of in limbo right now.
And on the private sector we're still seeing growth from tech education health and business services but these contractors related to the government have kind of -- they're dealing with a great amount uncertainty right now so they kind of like stopped.
They're not hiring ahead anticipating the next big procurement contract whatever it is so they're just kind of stuck there.
So we're dealing with uncertainty on the demand side.
And then on the supply it's coming.
And it could be 6 000 7 000 units this year it could be more next year and then after that it remains to see how many deals will actually get delivered.
So I think it's going to impact over -- I think starting in the second half of this year late 2012 is going to impact in the district more as you're going to see more these developments all high-end competing for the same renter cohort whether it's U Street I Street the Triangle area all Northwest D.C.
is going to have these great buildings coming online.
And there's going to be a little supply issue there.
Perhaps at the same time we're going to have more slowing in the government sector.
So that's could be problematic for the second half of the year.
We just have to wait.
So I think by second quarter certainly at third quarter we're going to know how that's going to play out.
The closed-in areas Arlington Alexandria aren't going to have quite as much new supply.
Our D.C.
corridor will have a couple but mostly small buildings.
So I'm not as worried about those.
It's really the district.
Our next question is from the line of Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So back to Ross' question I guess on sort of cap rates and returns.
I mean how much are you guys willing to lower your initial yields for the right product? Hard to say.
It's difficult to say.
But again it's also a function of what we're getting for the assets that we're selling because we're really thinking a lot about it Jay as just a trade.
So what can we get for that next incremental disposition in pick your market and what are our reinvestment opportunities.
So we're really -- I mean that's really just sort of a -- it's a trading process for us and it remains to be seen on any individual asset.
I mean I just can't tell you anything specifically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I asked the question because you guys still feel pretty good about growth this year same as you were last year and you've obviously seen spreads compressed a bit in the last couple of months.
But we're just trying to gauge your appetite there.
And I guess just a second question you've mentioned as well rent as a percentage of income had actually dropped in the fourth quarter.
And I know rents were up 7% year-over-year.
Are you seeing income grow that much greater? And I guess speak to sort of credit quality of the tenants that you're seeing coming in the door today.
Yes this is Fred again.
All fronts we just feel good about our resident base like I mentioned in terms of their employment level the types of jobs they have where they're located where they want live and then their ability and desire to pay the rents including the increases for the people there.
Our average income right now is $8 288 a month.
That's just under $100 000 a year which is remarkable.
And if you look at the kind of the margin of people that moved into us versus people that moved in last year on a same-store set I mentioned that the household incomes are up 4.5%.
Now rents are up like 6% and the average rent as a percent of income over the entire portfolio stayed pretty flat actually improved just a little bit to 17.2%.
Southern California markets again are the ones where you're going to see the higher.
They're going to be in the low 20s but they've always been higher in California.
And then New York remains the lowest where we have the highest rent.
We also have even more so the higher incomes.
So again the credit quality is good.
I think we continue to get people with higher FICO scores.
That's the trend that continues this quarter.
We're seeing more automatic approvals which means slam-dunk applications are approved right there on the spot because of their FICO scores their incomes et cetera.
And we don't see any kind of a slowdown or hiccup or any pause at all to be concerned about on the credibility and the viability of the balance sheets and the income statements of our resident base.
Research Division</strong> And I know you mentioned tenants are shunning the single-family market at this point and homeownership is declining.
I guess with some improvement in consumer confidence are you expecting that turnover to pick up? I guess what's the catalyst to sort of turn things in a different direction at some point? Well eventually it's going to happen.
There's a pent-up demand for home buying.
We're not going to say it's never going to happen.
Although I wouldn't be surprised if it's going to be a long time before that paradigm shift is going to reverse.
And it probably may never in a generation get back to the way it was.
But we watch that closely.
And Q4 we just finished at 13.3% moveouts for home buying which is exactly equal to what it was a year ago.
So no real shift.
Within the markets kind of no surprise.
Phoenix is the only one that really moved up.
They moved up over 200 basis points and to a kind of a little bit of a higher number 21%.
Now in the heydays Phoenix probably would have been 35% 40% move up for home buying but still it's kind of remarkable that Phoenix is now kind of the first market to get back up with the 2 handle [ph] so it's 21%.
Other markets that moved up were Orange County Inland Empire.
Inland Empire is maybe just second to Phoenix they're at 17% and they did move up 100 basis points.
And so on those cheap cheap single-family commodity markets I think those are going to be the first ones you might see people eventually get tempted because the pricing is just so low well under $100 000.
But then in the core markets New York actually went down it almost got cut in half.
Only 4% 4.5% of our people moved up buying homes in New York which was down significantly as well as Denver and D.C.
So again on that front steady as she goes.
We don't see any leading indicator of home buying picking up in a meaningful market.
And then Phoenix and Inland Empire would be the only small exceptions but again not a big big move.
Yes.
I guess I'd also add that even at the lowest down payments required to get into a single-family home you're still talking about thousands of dollars that I don't think a lot of people might have.
And I think while it's appropriate to think about single-family homes and the number of our folks that could -- that might have a desire to own a single-family home I think that in a better economic environment I also think you need to keep one eye on the millions of 20 some-odd-year-old people that are still living with mom and dad where households yet to be formed.
Because I think we believe strongly that if and when the confidence of the consumer and the strength of the economy will allow people to leave our apartments to go buy single-family homes we remain confident that there will be ample backfilling of potential households that are still living with mom and dad.
Our next question is from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on Archstone and I'm not asking for you guys to divulge your strategy.
But in just thinking about it you haven't exercised the option yet.
The banks clearly want to sell -- Lehman has the ROFO right regardless of who tries to buy the bank's thing.
There's also the ride-along the tag-along right that they have.
So in this scenario that's existing you guys have the potential to get upwards of an $80 million break fee if you exercise the option the bidding goes through and they ROFO.
Is there a reasonable scenario where you wouldn't you'd let the option lapse? Well I guess I'm not sure how I could answer that question without divulging any sort of strategy.
But I guess what I'm trying to tell you that I think that there's an $80 million sort of payment sitting there on the table and I'm not quite sure how we'd go forward without taking it Alex.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes.
That's my thought.
I was just sort of intrigued that you guys hadn't exercised the option.
So that's why I asked.
Just switching to construction it's a sort of a two-parter.
One you guys are ramping up the development program pretty strongly.
Just curious if you're doing all this in-house or if you're sourcing some outside developers to help.
And then along those lines just given that construction lending remains really tight and a number of the merchant guys can't get financing for all their pipelines are you seeing more people more developers coming to you guys to either do presales or to ask you to come in on their deals? Well the answer to your first question Alex is we're doing this all on our own.
The only ventures that we've done are the ones in which we have brought an institutional partner into as a capital source to do the transaction with us.
And then as I said the codevelopment deal with Toll in Manhattan.
But we're not doing ventures where we're providing the capital and third-party developers are providing those services.
We're doing it all on our own.
I'd tell you that we have for some time tried to do kind of takeout deals for developers that owned land that are having trouble getting capital the debt capital or equity capital whereby our contractual takeout upon completion might enable them to go get the necessary construction financing and done a lot of talking but have not been terribly successful.
We continue to work on a handful of those deals.
But I can't tell you that any of them are imminent at this time.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay is there a particular reason that they don't -- is it that the developers want too much or prior experience gives you some caution about entering those sorts of deals? Well it's a lot of it is because we do get the developers pretty carefully before we consider them to begin with.
A lot of this is just the availability of the capital from the banks.
And the banks are interested in lending.
They'd like to do more development lending.
Many of them will say that to you and they have relaxed spreads and they have increased proceeds.
I think getting a 65% to 70% loan to cost construction loan is not at all that difficult.
But what is difficult about that process is you need to have a real balance sheet behind it.
The bank wants some principal recourse the bank wants to see that you have net worth the banks want to see that you have true liquidity and cash.
And those are the things that we see holding up developers from being able to do that.
Our next question is from the line of Rob Stevenson with Macquarie Capital.
David can you talk about what you see is the magnitude of the redevelopment or repositioning of opportunity in your portfolio given the earlier comments on buying older assets today? Well I guess there are 2 comments.
One is what Mark had talked about Rob with respect to our existing portfolio of assets currently owned.
And we continue to think that there are opportunities to put $7 000 $10 000 $12 000 a door into those units and get a good double-digit of return on those transactions and we've got a lot of history of actually providing that.
If your question is about acquisition opportunities to do likewise I'd tell you even those are becoming more challenging.
It wasn't long ago when institutional money was no longer pursuing value add but we're seeing a lot of demand for value-added transactions as well.
But we bought some older assets several on the Peninsula and we're doing pretty significant repositioning on -- by 3 or 4 deals on the Peninsula right now.
So we'll certainly do that but even those deals are becoming competitive to find.
Well I guess my question in essence is Mark said basically that you guys would do 4 700 units at $8 300 per.
So that's a little bit under $40 million in '12.
And given the historical returns that you guys and lot of the peers have been able to drive off of that type of program I'm surprised it's not greater given the lack of strong returns in either the acquisition or the development market today.
Well I guess that's kind of been a pretty normal run rate for us.
I think we've probably done $30 million to $40 million of spend in each of the past 3 plus or so years.
And we just continue to churn through that.
We haven't talked about ramping it up.
We've just been talking about consistently spending around that amount of money each year.
And I expect to do so for the next handful of years as well.
Okay.
And then turning to development.
Assuming that you could find the land I mean what's the upper end of your comfort range in terms of the size of the development pipeline going forward? A good question but one that's difficult to answer.
We have -- we will have a higher level of activity over the next last year this year maybe 2013.
A lot of that is because we saw opportunity to acquire land in '09 and 2010 and we're executing that.
I'm not sure that I'd expect that elevated level to continue.
But I mean it just remains to be seen what the opportunities are relative to the acquisition opportunities.
But I think we kind of historically had a $500 million or $600 million run rate and now we'll be maybe plus $700 million for a couple of years.
And we'll see what the opportunities are come 2013 2014 and kind of take it from there.
I think that if you've seen the assets that we built I encourage you to see Ten23.
I think we've got a fantastic team that's delivering absolutely tremendous product.
And if we felt that it was appropriate to build that up I wouldn't hesitate to do it.
Okay.
So it sounds like I mean assuming that you don't get Archstone there's probably not a high likelihood that you're going to take some of that $1 billion plus and either materially expanded the development pipeline from here or materially ramp-up or get more aggressive on your traditional acquisition program.
No.
I think that that -- the availability of that capital has always been available to us.
I mean it wasn't like all of a sudden it's newfound capital we just asked for it.
But no just because it's on or available we can mean draw on it it doesn't mean we're going to change our investment activity or philosophy in a world that does not include Archstone.
Our next question is from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
So what would you prefer as much as 1 600% return on $5 million investments to get an $80 million break-up fee or to own 26.5% of Archstone for like several years? What would be the better outcome for you? Look I guess I'll only tell you that we've not been in this for a break-up fee.
We've been in this because we felt that those were a good quality assets that one way or another we're at a time sort of in this life cycle that those they needed to come to market one way or the other.
And it was an opportunity for us.
So I mean it's not an easy answer to your -- question to answer but I can tell you we didn't do this trying to play for a break-up fee.
Okay.
I mean I wasn't suggesting that.
But okay just on the issue a question was raised about interest rates and timing of acquisitions and  dispositions.
Just from a pure modeling prospective would it be fair to just kind of straight-line acquisitions and dispositions unlike last year where it was more lumpy in the beginning and the end of the year? Yes.
Rich it's Mark Parrell.
Yes our guidance does assume that acquisitions and dispositions are evenly spaced throughout the year.
And again that doesn't necessarily mean we think that's how it's going to happen we're just telling you that that is what is embedded in the guidance that we've given you.
Okay.
On the topic of development a lot of talk here about expanding the development pipeline.
I guess what gets you comfortable 3 years from now or whatever when you ultimately deliver product that the market is going to be suitable to bring product to market? I'm thinking specifically about the Toll Brothers deal.
But I mean just generally speaking how do you have that kind of vision 3 years from now? Look I mean therein lies the risk of development but also therein lies the risk of underwriting even existing stabilized asset right? I mean we underwrite -- we buy assets today and we underwrite what we think rents are today and where rents are going.
So it's just a question of are you willing to own an asset at this basis for the next x number of years throughout this marketplace.
And while I'll tell you that I think that lesser capitalized companies have to really be more concerned about that I think that we're in a place where we deliver a great product in a great location in a market that we know long-term is going to be fantastic.
Whether or not it comes out of the blocks a little underexpectation is not the big worry for us.
We were trying to buy identify for acquisition or development assets that we think we're going to own happily for 15 or 20 years.
And what happens in the 6-month period that it gets lease up when it's delivered is not terribly important because we believe long-term we're building the right product in the right markets and we'll be properly rewarded.
If we had a smaller balance sheet or we were a merchant builder and all of our upside was dependent upon what happened within 1 6-month window 3 years out from now that would be a different story.
Right.
Okay that makes sense.
So like if you say a 15- to 20-year time horizon on any kind of investment you make be it a large portfolio or development I mean is there a timeframe from the completion of that project or the closing of the transaction where you would not want to see fundamental start to flow? I mean in other words if you take any portfolio you need at least 3 or 4 years of pretty good stuff happening before it starts to slow down? Or does that not matter? Well we've got land today that we're going to start building on in 2012 that we acquired before the bust that because of the carry -- and we're at a point where we probably have a carrying value for that land that is below real market value today.
And that's why I mentioned the 1 deal in Pasadena California will be a high 4% low 5% yield.
Well that's because legacy sort of pricing.
We could've started that earlier.
We can kind of start it later.
But again we felt when we bought the property years ago and frankly now we're going to start building on it we're quite comfortable that this will be a very successful project at the end of the day.
It may underperform relative to our basis but long-term we think we'll do okay.
But you just can't be as precise as I think you're suggesting one would like to be.
Right and very well said.
And then the last question is on the dividend.
I'm not so sure I'm comfortable or I like the fairly kind of I guess clever dividend policy of kind of paying out the leftovers at the end of the year.
It kind of demonstrates to me a little bit of a lack of commitment in terms of the full year.
And I'm just curious what would you say to somebody that kind of thought that way that just from the starting point you're kind of -- you never have a situation where you're going to have to cut the dividend because you're not committing to a full number at the very beginning of the year.
How would you respond to that? I guess I think you just did.
I mean we think an appropriate dividend policy is not to establish some number that if things go sideways you have to fight to defend because you're so concerned about ever having to cut it.
We think that like any partnership whatever we'll split the rewards at the end of the year.
We do acknowledge that at points in time we'll need to address how much of that we intend to pay in the first 3 quarters of the year.
We didn't want to set a situation which we were constantly changing that.
But at some point in time I'm sure we'll address what is the appropriate payment for the first 3 quarters what's the appropriate percentage it ought to be paid out in the first 3 versus the last 1.
But when we established this level we went back over the past 10 years of operations of the company and try to find something that we knew we would have been able to cover throughout some of the most challenging times.
So whether it's clever or not I mean we're not trying to be clever.
We just think it's frankly  more appropriate way to run the railroad.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> The legacy hedging there was that all taken care of with the offering in the fourth quarter? And also I believe you said a $250 million spend for 2012 without land purchases.
Can you give us the number you're kind of baking in in terms of your sources and uses for 2012? So the hedges that were terminated the $750 million of hedges had about $150 million of costs that we talked about in the script.
There are still a couple -- I think it's actually about $300 million worth of hedges that remain.
They have a negative value around $35 million today.
Those numbers sit in our deferred until we do our debt offerings in 2013.
So that's the current mark on that portfolio of debt.
In terms of the quotes on how much land we don't have any land purchases baked in except for one.
There is one land purchase that we are either under contract or LOI we're close enough.
We've decided internally that we did include it in the number I quoted.
But there are no other land purchases that are in our guidance.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Second of all I believe you completed a couple of acquisitions since the beginning of the first quarter there.
How much of the $1.25 billion has been identified? And also can you give us a sense of how much of the $1.25 billion of dispositions you guys are actively marketing at this point? There's been very little activity on either side of the ledger up to now.
I guess the guys will tell you that things don't get started until -- they've been slowed dramatically at the end of the year and don't start until after the National Multi Housing Council meetings.
But I'll tell you we had a lot of contacts and a lot of people there and we'll begin to see more activity there.
But there's a very small pipeline of transaction.
But there is 1 large acquisition we're working on and Mark noted that he had budgeted for 1 million OP units being delivered as part of that 1 acquisition.
But that's really what the limit of what the supply looks like today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Third question relates to Archstone.
I know you guys are in active discussions with the banks.
Have you engaged Lehman in discussions? Or can you comment on that? I guess I really can't comment on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
I thought I'd I try.
And then final question just to go back to your opening comments and also understand the underwriting.
As you're looking at this cycle how long do you think the benefits of lower move-out to homeownership how long do you think that could continue? And how long do you think that we can continue to see above-average growth in the multifamily space? Yes.
It's very difficult to answer that question.
But I just don't see any reason why we don't have several more years of above-average performance.
As we mentioned earlier and Fred acknowledged I'm sure we've got people interested in buying a single-family home in our portfolio but they either don't have a down payment they've got too much school debt or other debt and they can't get financing.
But if they do I'd tell you I think that there's an awful lot of people that 20-somethings that live with mom and dad are looking to create a household as soon as possible.
And I'd tell you I think that we'll see increased levels of supply this year and next year.
And I think -- but it's still well below historical run rates.
And I think you're really seeing the result of an awful lot of product being sort of held in inventory through '09 2010 2011 that's finally coming out.
And I think that you'll see an elevated level of supply again well below historical run rates.
And I think that that number will then drop off because people have got to be working now for stuff for 2014 2015.
And so I mean we're not terribly concerned about the supply side also because of the financing challenges that Mark said.
So I think the multifamily space is at a real sweet spot and will be there for some time.
LLC Research Division</strong> And are you assuming that sweet spot continues in the 8% IRR you're underwriting? Or are you assuming normalized kind of growth patterns? Well I would say a lot of the IRR is a function of what's your inbound kind of yield is.
But we're still going to try and target that.
I'm not suggesting that that number can't come down.
But as I mentioned earlier that's going to be a result if we're getting better disposition values on what we want to sell well that will influence what we'll be willing to pay on assets that we acquire.
And our next question is from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
I mean this year there's been some interesting trade between the homebuilders as well -- versus the multifamily REITs based on this whole expectations of Refi.gov.
And Obama put another plan where foreclosed homes can be sold to private investors and kind of issued out as rentals.
Just kind of curious one what do you think about this trade? And then two if some of these proposals what you actually think the impact of some these proposals could actually be to apartment fundamental? Look I think that on the one hand anything that can help stabilize the single-family home business or inventory is going to help our economy will be good long term for everyone.
To the extent that some of these programs allow investors to acquire properties and lease them to people we believe that most of the occupants of those homes will be those that had been previously dispossessed of their own home.
We've not seen a lot of people come running back into our apartments who left us during the heyday of '06 '07 '08 and we think they're still out there.
And if they're no longer in a home they own they're probably renting a home.
And also I think a lot of is limited to a handful of markets that have seen a significant oversupply or significant inventory of unsold homes.
And I don't think that's really a problem in the markets in which we have most of our capital committed.
And our next question is from the line of Swaroop Yalla with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you can tell us how you expect same-store revenues to trend for the year.
Fred mentioned that we could see some narrowing of comps in Q3.
Is that when you expect the inflection point to occur for the same-store revenues? Yes.
This is Fred again.
When we look at a year forward it's going to follow the typical seasonal pattern of our business which means we'll start in January and then we'll have gradual growth in February March and then come April start seeing demand pickup and therefore we see lift in our pricing both in absolute terms and relative to a year before.
So if you can imagine kind of the 2011 pricing curve starting off low and then it peaks and then it falls off that peak does happen sometime in the August timeframe.
So that's what I inferred when I said that peaking in Q3 and then the seasonal softening again in Q4.
So when you look at a year-over-year basis it's really that gap between those 2 curves and what's the distance between those lines.
And for this year the midpoint of our guidance kind of assumes that that gap is going to on average be 5.5% over the year kind of the area between those 2 lines.
Now this time last year as we looked forward into 2011 for the mid-part -- midpoint of the guidance last year which was between 4% and 5% we said it was base rents that would go up 5% kind of the same kind of the average for the year.
Now what happened is we actually did better than that.
We did 6% on base rent actually a little bit more than 6% almost 6.5% and then renewals were 6% instead of 4% or 5%.
And that's why we ended up at the top of our range instead of midpoint.
So could that happen again this year? Absolutely.
I think there's more of a chance that we could come out hotter than a chance that we would actually fall short on this.
So that's how we look at it.
But again for guidance it's kind of that midpoint was going to happen and then we'll know really when we update guidance at the middle of the summer kind of what the next leasing season is going to give us.
Because last year as we entered the leasing season that gap narrowed below 5% it was actually 4.5%.
But then once we hit like July -- actually no really in the middle of June to July we motored right on through and that actually expanded up to a 7% gap.
So that's why we came out at the high end in 2011.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
The other question I had was on Southern California.
I mean you talked about L.A.
and Orange County showing momentum.
If you can talk about the markets which are showing momentum.
And then most specifically San Diego you mentioned is challenging.
What markets -- and what is really driving that? Is it supply pressures? Is it military rotations? If you can just shed some light on that.
Yes San Diego is not a big market for us but it's just been frustrating in that it really hasn't had a powerful recovery yet.
We started off okay.
It was actually one of the last ones to really go down back in '09 and '10.
But I was expecting it to come back a little bit stronger and it has not.
The reason is military rotations.
Okay the big Navy base there.
We've got all 3 of the big aircraft carriers are out either on maneuvers or up in Bremerton for repairs.
And that is a big sucking sound to the economy of San Diego when those things pull out.
And all of them are out at the same time right now.
And we don't expect any of them to be back until next year early next year.
So it's going to be kind of -- it is lower than average still positive still growth but still lower performer in San Diego for the rest of this year.
And we saw that as they call it go out we saw immediate increase in military lease-up breaks.
Almost half of our lease breaks were military and then we have some corporate nurses.
And that's affecting the South County and the Mission Valley markets in particular.
And we have a big presence in our portfolio of South County and Mission Valley in particular there with La Mirage and others.
The central business district Downtown San Diego continues to be hot.
I mean our Vantage Pointe deals is great.
We're basically all done with the lease-up there and then our 1 same-store property there is doing extremely well.
So we kind of have suffering from our concentration.
And then North County with the Pendleton base is doing while they're building all that housing on base.
But now it's done so all these soldiers are moving on to base.
That's really the military thing.
The other sectors biotech tech healthcare education in San Diego are favorable but they're not big enough to overcome the military.
And then L.A.
and Orange County just continue to do good.
The momentum we talked about last quarter continues.
Orange County is going to have a good year L.A.
is finally seeing some job growth.
And I think it's going to have a good year especially the downtown and those areas.
Research Division</strong> Mark can you just -- last question.
Can you talk about the secured and unsecured financing costs you're hearing based on your discussions with GSEs and life companies and your bankers? Sure happy to do that.
On the 10-year side the unsecured market is actually a little bit more expensive right now.
I would say EQR would issue debt about $200 million over the tenure while I see on the secured side we'd be issuing more like $180 million over the 10-year.
So that's not surprising that's a pretty common relationship for secured to be a little bit cheaper.
That relationship very interestingly changes when you talk about 5-year debt.
The GSEs are not particularly fond of 5-year debt so they would price a 5-year note to us probably at $220 million over which would give you about 2.9% to 3% note rate whereas the unsecured market likes shorter paper likes 5-year duration.
And they would price it to us more like 2.6%.
So again the GSEs for a lot of reasons don't like 5-year paper.
They also give you less in proceeds all things equal on a 5-year versus a 10-year deal.
So again for us that's how we see.
The life companies are active they're in the market.
There are selective about what they price.
They like the core markets more than they like the noncore markets.
The GSEs are beginning to skew some of their activity by submarket.
They are still active in every market but there are submarkets they're less active or less interested in.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you all for your time today.
And again as a reminder there will be an updated release out later this afternoon.
Thanks so much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Equity Residential Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Equity Residential Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today July 26 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks George good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's Second Quarter 2012 Results.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; Fred Tuomi our EVP of Property Management; And Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
David Santee our EVP of Property Operations is also here with us for the Q&amp;A.
Let me remind you that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain to economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn the call over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
We're very pleased to report what has not been a terribly well-kept secret and that is that the operating fundamentals in the multifamily space continue to be very strong.
And based on the activity we're seeing today across our portfolio we see no reason why strong fundamentals shouldn't continue for quite a while.
As reported in our earnings release and supplemental last night we delivered second quarter results which came in very much in line with our expectations and which produced results for the first half of the year of 5.5% same-store revenue growth and 7.5% same-store NOI growth numbers that are right on top of the midpoint of the full year guidance that we gave in February for both of these metrics.
So all in all the year is shaping up pretty much as we have forecasted and Fred's going to take a minute now to share a bit about what we're seeing as we begin to wrap up our primary leasing season.
All right.
Thank you.
As David mentioned we are very pleased with the first half of the year and we're confident that the full year 2012 revenue growth will be very close to the midpoint of our original guidance which was 5.5%.
So far the peak leasing season has shown very strong demand allowing us to build occupancy and grow rents across all of our markets.
The fundamentals of our business are solid and the outlook for the future remains very positive.
And I'll now give you a quick update about each of the drivers of our revenue.
First is turnover.
As we continue to grow base rents through this cycle an increase in turnover is expected and especially from those moving out due to rent increases.
However we're still able to offset this turnover by refilling vacant units with qualified residents at higher base rents.
The markets with the greatest increase in turnovers still includes San Francisco and Boston where we have had very strong rent growth and not surprisingly the greatest level of move-outs due to rent increases.
Denver is another market where we have seen a significant increase in turnover lately.
Denver is interesting in that it recovered earlier than most markets and has seen over 2 or really 2.5 consecutive years of very strong rent growth and its single-family market is very healthy.
So Denver may actually be an indication of other markets in the very near future.
So Denver we're now seeing more price resistance on renewals and coupled with an increase in home buying.
Now the good news is we're refilling these move-outs very quickly at current base rents.
And today Denver is 96.2% occupied the highest occupancy in several years and 6.1% left to lease the lowest level of left to lease in several years while still growing base rents at a nice 10%.
So clearly this is an example where there's ample demand in Denver to refill vacancies due to rent increases and home purchasing at the current high base rents.
At the entire same-store portfolio move outs due to rent increases grew 50 basis points in the second quarter to 14.7% of move-outs.
And notably sequentially it actually declined from first quarter by 10 basis points.
Move-outs due to home buying again picked up slightly to 12.9% for the quarter which is still well below past normal levels.
So for the full year 2012 we now expect same-store turnover to finish about 200 basis points over 2011 which should be around 59.5%.
Next is our occupancy.
At the end of Q2 our year-to-date average occupancy is 95.1%.
And this compares to 95.2% for the same period year to date in 2011.
We've had very strong occupancy gains across all markets over the past 90 days which spans the end of the quarter reaching to 96% occupancy as of today with a very healthy 7% left to lease.
For the full year 2012 we still expect occupancy to be 95.2%.
Next takes us to base rents.
Due to higher turnover and vacancy experienced in the first quarter we held base rents basically steady through April and began pushing rates again in May as the leasing season demand kicked in and occupancy grew.
So as of this week this week base rents are up 7.5% since January 1 of this year and they're up 4.2% year-over-year compared to the same week in 2011.
And by the way that happened to have been the peak pricing week that we experienced in 2011.
As expected the year-over-year growth in base rents has moderated since Q1 due to tougher comp periods.
We still expect base rents to average 5.5% over 2011 levels over the entire year.
Our strongest base rent growth continues to come from the Northwest.
And again as of this week San Francisco is up 16% year to date meaning from January and 11% versus the same week last year year-over-year.
Denver is up 12% year-to-date and 10% year-over-year.
And Seattle is up 10% year-to-date 5% year-over-year with the CBD and Eastside submarkets significantly higher than that.
The Southwest continues to lag.
However Los Angeles and Orange County are finally improving both in occupancy and rent growth.
Now regarding new residents' willingness and ability to pay these higher rent levels we experienced very strong leasing velocity as base rents began to accelerate late May and into June indicating a willing acceptance of these new pricing levels and many of which now are above peak levels of mid-2008.
The average rent as a percent of income remains steady at 17.2% and this I think still remains a very healthy level.
So all income and credit quality indicators are keeping pace with the rents of our portfolio.
Finally renewals.
Renewals remain strong and in line with current base levels -- base rent levels.
Recent achieved renewals have been April 6.9%; May 7.0%; June 6.4%; July 5.8%.
Because we price most renewals at market levels renewal increases will track closely to the year-over-year base rent growth.
This means renewal increase percentages will also moderate as we enter tougher comp periods but still average around 5.5% for the full year.
So overall the fundamentals remain solid and right in line with our original expectations of a narrow range around the midpoint of our guidance of 5.5% total revenue growth for the full year of 2012.
David? Thanks Fred.
So as noted by Fred the strong performance we're delivering is really the result of continued demand across our core markets today.
And despite continued concerns about job growth I can tell you that we're not seeing any reduction in demand for these apartment units.
We're certainly seeing as Fred noted more people moving out today because they're unable to afford higher rents but at the same time seeing no slowdown in new prospects able to pay market rents and willing to take immediate occupancy.
That said longer-term we're certainly mindful that rents could be rising faster than incomes particularly given the level of high unemployment in the domestic economy today.
But we remind you that unemployment rate of the college-educated is only 4%.
And as a Fred noted our average rent to household income ratio is currently only 17%.
So we think we have plenty of runway yet on this particular metric.
We're also mindful about the risks of new supply to longer-term performance.
And while starts will certainly be up this year and next the numbers seem to be bigger when looked at on a percentage basis than they really are when looked at on an absolute basis.
We've done a lot of work looking at new supply not on the top line national numbers of course but by focusing on our specific submarkets within our core markets across the country and by looking at it on an absolute basis.
And what we've done is by starting with our teams across the field in these markets and others' forecast for actual deliveries over the next 3 years focusing on projects that are actually under construction today.
And we compare that to new supply -- that new supply to the expected marginal rental demand in those markets.
And we get there by looking at projected household growth in these markets and applying it against that a conservative multifamily capture rate of about 20%.
And that helps us come up with an estimate for incremental future demand.
And in general when we compare future deliveries to that expected incremental demand we see markets able to absorb this new supply with no long-term disruption to the marketplace.
Now that's not to say that if we operate an asset near a new delivery that we won't feel the impact of that new supply.
But we think that absorption will be quick and overall our markets will remain healthy allowing for continued strong growth in rental rates.
Turning now to our transaction activities.
In the first half of the year we've acquired 5 existing assets for $670 million.
And much of that activity occurred in the second quarter with 2 very large acquisitions for $511 million.
The largest of these 2 acquisitions was the Beatrice which was pictured on the front of last night's earnings release.
This represents 301 units on 6th Avenue in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood.
The project was built in 2010.
And what we acquired was the top 30 floors of a 54-floor high rise.
We acquired that in a condo structure and the other condo user representing floors 1 through 23 is a very popular hotel named Kimpton hotel named the Eventi.
We acquired our 301 units for $280 million which represents a purchase price of $930 000 a unit and $1 340 per square foot.
And that asset was acquired at a 4.76% cap rate.
Rents in the building currently average about $7.25 per square foot and this is really truly an exceptional asset with great location and unparalleled views.
This quarter we also acquired 510 units in Chevy Chase Maryland in an asset built in 1996.
This was acquired for $231 million or $450 000 a door at a cap rate of 5.2%.
During the quarter we sold 9 assets for $130 million totaling 1 662 units.
We sold 2 assets in Phoenix 2 in Atlanta 1 in Orlando.
And we also sold a portfolio of 4 properties in various suburban Boston markets which were encumbered by highly structured debt from the Massachusetts Housing Finance Authority.
We've kept our transactional guidance for the year at $1.25 billion of acquisitions and $1.25 billion of dispositions.
Now despite a competitive marketplace we're about halfway towards that acquisition goal.
Clearly though with respect to dispositions we have some ground to cover.
But we sold $385 million of product year to date.
We have another $320 million of product under contract and several hundred million more in various stages of marketing.
We'll have no issue meeting our disposition guidance if we can find suitable reinvestment opportunities because the demand for the assets we would sell to fund reinvestment into core assets remains very very strong.
That's the good news.
The bad news is that this demand for these noncore assets is a function of how competitive it is to acquire the core assets say that we'd like to buy because there remains a great deal of capital chasing very few core deals in our markets today which is creating a very competitive acquisition environment.
Development side of our business we continue to look for new opportunities.
Yet we've only acquired 2 land parcels this year both in the first quarter that were each fully described on our April call.
So while we did not acquire any new land sites last quarter we are moving towards closing on 3 sites this quarter 1 in Southern California and 2 in Seattle.
And we have several additional sites that could close yet this year.
For the full year we've reduced our expected starts to about $525 million.
This is down about $225 million from expectations at the beginning of the year because we've had 2 potential starts that will not likely go forward this year because we've created much of the expected value in getting these sites fully entitled and we might simply monetize that value without taking any additional risks.
Our core underwriting of our development deals those both underway and proposed suggest yields on cost in the high 5s and low 6s on current rents and the mid-7s on stabilized rents.
So I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on today's call.
This morning I'm going to cover 2 topics.
I'm going to give you some detail on our same-store operating expenses and I'm going to explain the changes to our full year normalized FFO guidance.
So first on the operating expense side.
Year to date same-store operating expenses are up about 1.9% which is right about in the middle of our 1.5% to 2.5% guidance range that we put out in February.
We still expect expenses to grow at about a 2% rate so we have not changed our same-store expense range.
And this is just a terrific number on its own but its especially impressive on top of the modest 0.6% or 60 basis point increase in same-store expenses we had in 2011.
However we have had some additional pressure on the real estate tax side since we've set guidance in February which has been offset by utility and property management cost savings.
And I do want to give you a little color on those 3 important line items.
First on the real estate tax side we have said for some time that we expect property taxes to rise more sharply as assessors recognize the recent improvements in apartment values and that time has certainly come.
We originally anticipated our property taxes to be up about 4.5% this year.
We have seen rates and values come in higher than expected in some markets.
And as a result we now expect our property tax expense to be up about 5.5% for the full year.
We have however benefited on the utility side to offset some of that property tax increase.
We now see lower utility costs and we see them as flat or slightly negative year-over-year and that compares to the up 1.5% to up 2.5% thought we had on utilities back in February.
This year we decided not to hedge our natural gas costs and that certainly ended up being a good decision.
And as a result our energy costs especially these natural gas costs should be modestly lower than we thought back in February.
But we do continue to feel some upward pressure on water and sewer costs.
Another favorable expense variance is the important property management expense line item.
And there we continue to benefit from our efforts to centralize bookkeeping and our other property accounting functions.
So when you put all this in a blender same-store expenses are well under control and about where we thought they would be back in February.
And also just a quick note on the changing makeup of our same-store expenses property taxes are becoming a bigger slice of our expense pie.
In 2009 property taxes were 27% of our operating costs.
That now is 30% of our operating costs.
And because the growth rate of taxes will be higher than that of our other expense line items the share that real estate taxes take of our operating expenses will continue to grow.
I'm going to chat for a moment about our normalized FFO guidance.
Our normalized FFO guidance range for the year is now $2.73 per share to $2.78 per share meaning we've moved our midpoint up by about $0.03 per share.
I'll quickly highlight the 3 major variances from what we thought back in February when we gave you our original guidance.
First off we see property NOI or net operating income is about $0.01 higher than we thought in February.
It's mostly due to lease-ups and other non-same-store activities.
We see interest expense is $0.01 lower than we thought back in February and that's mostly due to our application of the $150 million in Archstone-related termination fees to our revolver balance.
We currently expect outstandings on the revolver to be $700 million at December 31 2012 if we do not transact in the debt or equity markets.
As always we will be opportunistic in accessing the capital markets with an eye towards minimizing our long-term cost of capital.
Final reconciling item is the series end preferred redemption.
On July 20 we called for redemption of the $150 million of this outstanding of our 6.48% Series N preferred shares.
Our guidance assumes the funding of this preferred redemption using the line of credit.
This will increase 2012 normalized FFO by about $0.01 per share.
We will take a $5.1 million noncash charge in the third quarter for the write-off of the original issuance costs.
This charge will run through EPS and FFO and will not run through normalized FFO.
And while we're on the topic of accounting I want to provide a quick housekeeping note on the Archstone fees.
While we have previously disclosed that we received $150 million in termination fees in connection with our pursuit of Archstone all or part of the fees must be returned if we acquire all or substantially all of Archstone within a 30-day period.
And that 30-day period applies to the $70 million we received from Lehman Brothers or a 120-day period and that applies to the $80 million that we received from Barclays and Bank of America.
And all those time periods are measured from the June 6 2012 date that Lehman acquired the Bank of America and Barclays interest in Archstone.
Because this condition was not satisfied by the end of the second quarter meaning that we were not yet at the June July 6 date that we would have fully earned the Lehman $70 million fee the entire $150 million in termination fees were recorded as deferred revenue in our second quarter financial statements and placed in the other liability section of our balance sheet.
And that's why you see the large increase in other liabilities.
The time period for that first $70 million fee portion from Lehman Brothers has passed and those funds will be recognized in our third quarter financials in interest and other income and we will relieve our other liabilities down by $70 million.
We will recognize the remaining $80 million fee from Barclays and Bank of America in the fourth quarter assuming no transaction occurs.
Neither of these fees will be included in normalized FFO.
I will now turn the call back over to George the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to make sure I understood the point you were making on Denver and how that could be the model going forward.
I think you were basically saying that even though you expect turnover due to home purchases and financial reasons and everything to keep moving up that you're confident you can replace those tenants with rate increases.
Is that the point you were making? Yes this is Fred.
That's exactly the point we're making.
Looking at the kind of metrics across our portfolio Denver just kind of popped up.
On one hand it was worrisome in that the -- in its high turnover.
It was growing.
It was due to rent increases that are due to home purchasing.
But then on the revenue side it's one of the top performers there as well.
So we have great rent growth but then also very strong leasing velocity through to this leasing season high occupancy low left to lease and it just continues to grow.
So it looks like even though that market has recovered the single-family is healthy people are buying homes there's plenty of demand for our product from our profile and they're ready willing and able to lease apartments at the current rents that continue to grow and refill those vacancies.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Understood.
And so I guess also as part of that we should probably expect to see turnover keep rising in your markets.
I mean is that an expectation that we should have? Or is that just sort of you're saying we might see this in isolated cases in certain markets like Denver? I think clearly this year you're going to see turnover increases over last year.
In the last couple of years it's been kind of low.
It will normalize probably I would say probably after next year.
But yes turnover will continue to grow from increased rents and from home buying.
And Denver just happens to be an example where we're seeing both at the same time.
Other markets with big increases in turnover like San Francisco and Boston we're not seeing home purchasing.
They're too expensive or they're hard to get.
And other markets where home buying is picking up the rents are low and we're not having the increased pressure.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
All right.
That's helpful.
And just last question.
You also made the point that your rent-to-income ratio is only 17% so you're pretty confident you can keep raising rents.
But I guess if you only have 17% why would turnover trend up? I mean I would think that if people are only paying 17% of the income out in the form of rent that they would be more inclined to stay where they are and renew their lease.
I don't know if there's a different dynamic going on there but that would just be what I thought what happens.
Well the situation on that that 17% is the marginal resident.
Those are the residents who have moved in.
The actual residents who've been there for a few years we don't have way of keeping up with their income after they moved in.
So I think a lot of the turnover you're seeing now because of rents are being too expensive.
One of them is just really just the reaction to 2 or 3 years in a row of big rent increases.
Then the other is during the downturn when rents were down 10% 15% 20% a lot of people were able to afford a nicer apartment at the same rent.
So as that rent recovers back to a normal basis they either are going to choose to or not be able to pay that rent and they will just go to a less costly housing alternative.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So the 17% is the incremental renter not the average renter? Yes it's not the entire install base correct.
Because someone who's living there 5 years.
We have their income as of 5 years ago.
We don't have recertification of income each year.
And our next question comes from the line of David Toti with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> You guys were pretty clear about markets that you sort of find attractive for various reasons and markets that you're exiting like Chicago.
Strategically what are your thoughts on markets like Vegas and Phoenix in particular? Counter-intuitive markets that offer higher cap rates and potentially [ph] higher rent growth? Is it hard to get into those markets? No.
We've not been in Chicago for quite some time and we've not been in Vegas for quite some time.
But I think that you should continue to expect our investment activity to track very closely to what you've seen us do over the past half a dozen years.
We think that focus has served us well and notwithstanding the fact that we may be getting better going-in cap rates in some of those markets today.
We think those are more trading markets and it's difficult for us to kind of play that game.
We think our total return will be better achieved in the markets that we've been focused on.
Research Division</strong> You guys mentioned the OP usage in the period.
Is that just an aberration? Or is that something you think we're going to see more of in coming quarters? Well I guess it's in aberration because we haven't done it in quite some time.
And frankly I've been surprised about that.
But this was just a situation with a family selling an asset that they had owned for many many years for tax planning purposes.
Taking OP units made sense for them.
But I have expected for some time and I have been wrong frankly in this expectation that the OP units would be a security that we use in more acquisitions.
But so far I've been surprised that we haven't.
But I would have an expectation particularly in a rising tax rate environment that we could see more OP unit issuances.
And frankly I've been surprised that we've seen so little thus far.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I was thinking in the context of potentially a political change that that would have some effect.
David just quickly my last question how was the residential [ph] performing in the last couple of quarters.
I know we haven't focused on it much because the market's been strong.
But how does the performance compare today versus let's say if we go back to 2007? What are the primary differences in how [indiscernible] is performing? This is David Santee.
And the first obvious answer is I mean it works the same day in and day out whether it's an up market or a down market.
I think it's more about what levers we decide to pull how much we decide to intervene from a strategic position.
We have executive level reviews myself Fred a couple of other folks every other week.
And that's where we kind of determine what levers we want to pull to achieve specific goals in specific markets.
So I would say that historically we have intervened more and being aggressive with the rate increases that LRO has put out.
And I would say that at this stage of the game we're probably letting LRO run more independently and letting it address the various markets.
And our next question comes from Rob Stevenson with Macquarie.
You made a previous comment on turnover moving up et cetera.
Can you get into the lower foot traffic environment going forward? Does that sort of force you to reign back on the rental rate increases? Well I guess what I would tell you is is that foot traffic has remained fairly constant.
It was up 5% in Q1.
Again it was up 5% in Q2 over last year.
The difference is really the outcome of that traffic whereas in Q2 we saw a result of 7% more applicants.
And then those 7% more applicants turned into 9% more move-ins.
So that's how the numbers work for Q2.
But I guess in terms of the sort of overall operating strategy I mean normally apartment companies once you start getting into the fall or trying to hit the fall with a higher level of occupancy it starts reigning in rental rate increases anyway.
Does this cause you to have to start that process a little other sooner than you otherwise would have? Well I would say that there's just a natural seasonality in our business.
A large percentage of our leases don't make it to term people get transferred what have you.
And when that happens in Q4 so to speak you're throwing unexpected supply into the market.
And your less sophisticated operators people that don't have LRO smaller operators they're just going to kind of turn to the concession or drop rate because perhaps their ownership structure just requires a higher occupancy which really just puts a whole pressure on the market.
And so I would say that every year since we've been operating LRO we've seen that seasonality and that seasonal softness and so it's really just a matter of to what degree that impacts our business in Q4.
Obviously we want to be in a position especially in the northern markets Boston New York where people just don't choose to move.
People that are moving in those markets in Q4 Q1.
Those are people that have to move for some reason or another.
I guess the only thing that I would add to that Rob is the fact that notwithstanding this increase in turnover our net exposure our left to lease is still reasonable at this point in the season.
Okay.
And then David given your comments on the difficulty in the acquisition market and the ability to still sell significant amount of assets I mean how willing are you to see the spread in terms of gross dollar valuation -- dispositions and acquisitions widen? Given the fact that you may sell some development sites and you're not spending as much on development these days is there a tolerance to do $1.5 billion of dispositions but not do any more acquisitions and just take the dilution on the near term on that? No Rob.
I mean I guess what we look at and we talked about it in our weekly investment committee meeting is the trades that we're making between selling certain assets and having the opportunity to reinvest that capital into other assets.
So there's no magic in our minds as to what that going-in delta might be but rather what's the long-term total return and how do we feel about selling certain assets and rotating that capital into other assets.
I tell you as we look at the assets we're selling today and look at what the prices per door are today and what those yields are we don't believe we're in a position where we're terribly concerned about those values going forward.
So selling those assets today at a high 5 and low 6 and putting the money in the bank and taking that dilution doesn't make that much sense because at an absolute dollar basis absolute price per pound basis we think that those values are solid and we can always sell the asset next year if it takes until then to find an appropriate reinvestment opportunity.
And our next question comes from the line of David Bragg with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the trends on new move-ins during the course of the quarter and in July? Yes.
David what do you exactly mean by new move-ins? You're talking about the rates? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So you're percentage gains on new move-ins over the prior lease on the same unit so that we can compare those to renewal gains? Okay.
Like the new lease replacement rent? Yes basically the way we look at that is the most important thing to look at is what are your base rents doing? What are you getting on new people coming in? And like I mentioned we're still going to average 5.5% for the year.
We are at 6.5% for Q1 and about 4% in Q2 and we are at 4.2% today and which matches up with the peak of last year.
And because we price pretty much at the market that's really what we look for.
So we're at 5.5% for the year 6.5% first half 4% right now and that might grow up a little bit through the end of third quarter.
So that's really what you're going to see it grow to.
That actual statistic it moves around a lot.
We've talked about that before.
There's a lot of noise in that actual measurement.
So really we like to look at just what are the base rents doing and you're going to -- right now we're at the 4% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that 4% is specific to July? That's 4.2% right now this week.
It was 4% for the quarter.
And I think Q2 we're at 4.2% today.
So basically in theory if someone moved in exactly last year and paid market rent and they moved in they moved out and somebody moves in that same apartment identical apartment at the same point now a year later you're going to see a gain of 4.2%.
But noise in that number comes if they're different units different unit types different lease terms different amenities on the units.
There's lots of other noises in that statistic.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Understood.
Just trying to think about your same-store revenue growth guidance range for the year.
It's very precise.
So I want to make sure that we understand some of the components of that.
You touched on many of them.
But I was surprised that you expect occupancy to dip back down to only average 95.2% over the course of the year.
Is that accurate? Or do you expect a big dropoff in the fourth quarter? Well we expect some dropoff in the fourth quarter.
As David just mentioned there's definite seasonality to this business.
Right now in the moment in this leasing season things are a little bit hotter than we kind of expected but it's not over yet.
So we're like I said we're 96% right now 7% forward exposure very healthy numbers.
So could that number be higher? Yes it could it could be.
But we're not going to let it get too high because we're going to -- our bias -- and our company is biased towards rate versus occupancy.
So we're not going to -- you're not going to see us kind of post these big giant occupancy numbers over a long period of time.
So could it be more than 95.2% for the year? Yes.
Will it be significantly more? No because we’re going to crank up rates to manage it.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then on leases expiring in September October what are the renewal increases that you're asking for? Okay.
For let's see August we ask 6.8 got a 5.2; September we asked a 7 and we'll probably achieve north of 5.
In October it's really kind of early to talk about October but we're going to probably quote in the high 6s and probably get in the low 5s I would say.
So too early for that.
Just a few have been put out so far.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One final question.
David you mentioned an interest in analysis or study in your opening comments.
And could you just talk about how the results of that compared to your investment decisions? For example you're selling assets in Orlando and Phoenix but those happen to have very strong job growth in very little multifamily permitting activity right now.
I'd have to imagine that they stack up very favorably as compared to your markets as a whole.
Yes.
But that's also -- those are very easy markets in which to start new product.
And they're also marked so I think there are far more risks to single-family home right? So we've not really done much of that work on those assets -- on those markets that -- more commodity-like markets but the focus has been on the high-barrier markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's a much longer-term perspective that you're taking than maybe a favorable relationship over the next couple of years? Well I mean we have a long-term bias for the higher-density higher-barrier markets.
But the analysis we've done here is just a 2- or 3-year analysis really focused on the starts that we know are the -- the developments that we know will actually take place.
And our next question comes from the line of Jana Galan with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Thank you for the earlier remarks on how your thinking about future new supply and absorption.
I was wondering if you could comment on the D.C.
market in particular and if the spring summer leasing was better or worse than you had actually budgeted or expected? Yes Jana this is Fred Fred Tuomi.
D.C.
kind of as reported in the first quarter continues to surprise us on the upside.
I mean we had lower expectations.
We thought things would be moderating consistently and maybe a little bit faster by this point of the year.
And good news is it's not.
I mean we're 96.8% occupied in D.C.
today 8% left to lease.
Rents are up from the beginning of the year over 10%.
And they're about 4% year-over-year right now and renewal is at 4.5%.
So we're in a very healthy state right now in D.C.
and we kind of cover all the good submarkets there.
Now I'm still concerned because of 2 things.
One is just the job picture there.
In the moment the jobs are great.
I mean we still have job growth last year and this year.
Unemployment is at 5.3%.
That tells you something about the federal government.
They're going to take care of themselves.
So it's looking very good.
Demand is high.
Labor market is still growing although there's still a lot of uncertainty and anxiety about what's coming next.
But that shoe has not started to fall yet.
So in -- well with respect to supply that we kind of worry about it.
We know it.
So there's significant supply coming in D.C.
Everybody knows that 8 000 units this year 10 000 in 2013.
And then the pipeline shows if everything gets delivered which it won't you could have about another 10 000 coming in in 2014.
And most of that is clustered in the good areas Mt.
Vernon Triangle NoMa Silver Spring RBC Corridor [ph] Carlyle et cetera.
Very competitive with our portfolio.
So today what we're seeing which is encouraging on this the leading edge of the supply wave is coming at us right there in the district.
We've got several high-profile lease-ups but they're doing extremely well.
Those lease-ups in the Mt.
Vernon NoMa markets are doing 40 units a month each of absorption.
That's very strong.
So the absorption -- D.C.
has always proven to be able to absorb a lot of units quickly.
So if we don't see a big reduction in government employment a big reduction in defense employment I think we could moderate through these next couple of years with very little disruption and through strong absorption.
But time will tell.
So far so good I would say.
And our next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
I want to ask a little bit about the 14.7% of move-outs because of rents being too high.
It seems -- it occurs to me that that's a really big number.
And then -- and so isn't that so kind of beginning not the end but at least some kind of deceleration in rent growth? I mean that has to happen first.
I mean that's the kind of way we're looking at it.
And then you tack on 13% of home buying as just being the turnover so those are your 2 kind of kryptonites right? So like should we -- is it fair to say you're taking your foot off the gas a little bit David by not starting those 2 developments because of these 2 factors? That's not what's driven this development decision whatsoever Rich.
But I guess I'll just kind of go back to Fred's comments about Denver.
Yes we have seen an increase in people moving out because of pricing and it's higher than it's been at a historical context but it's not a crazy number though.
And we've noted we're seeing some people move out an increase and people buying single-family homes.
And as a percentage that might be high but it's still low in historical context.
And then just again using Denver as that example notwithstanding increases in both of those areas we see Denver at the highest occupancy that we've seen in last several years and the lowest left to lease in the last several years.
So I guess what we're sort of suggesting to you is we think that the incremental demand is there that these markets can absorb this activity.
Right.
But how long can that shell gain last right? I mean you are in fact growing successfully but I mean how long would this typically go on? There is this demand to stop up of all these people moving out because the rent is too high.
Rich this is Fred.
A #1 reason for move out is people's job situation changes job change job transfer.
And that continues to be #1.
And how big is that? And that's in the 20 -- 20 range.
And then you have -- the top 3 have always been job change or job transfer home purchasing rent increase.
And then it drops off significantly from that from a myriad of other reasons okay? So depending on where you are in the cycle we're going to be jockeying for position for what's going to be #2 and #3 because #1 is always going to be job change and job transfer.
It used to be home purchasing was up in the 20 range.
Now it's down in the 12 13 range.
So naturally it's going to be the rent increases is going to be floated up to #2.
So really it's kind of a mix of what people give us as a reason of moving.
And don't forget we had a lot of people move in to apartments that got really good rates during the downturn and now they're going to reach a point where they're going to think you know what I think I'll just do something different.
So I think it's a healthy sign of the market that people are moving out because of rent increases.
If it ever slows down and our absorption slows and leasing velocity slows then we'll back off and you'll see that number kind of shift back.
And the other thing we look at is the fact that people are moving out consistently because of job opportunities.
That's a good sign of our resident base that they're employed they're active and they have job opportunities.
Just a little color on -- all of these are not due to rent increases.
I mean some of this is a result of life changes with people.
If you remember we talked about we only measure people's income when they move in.
So I mean when we see this activity spike in a market most of you know we go right down to the transaction level and we can see that yes someone did get an increase but it was a 2% increase.
But their life circumstances just changed and perhaps they had -- got a new job in the last 2 years that doesn't pay as much.
So this isn't all about rent increases.
It's probably 50-50 about changes in their life circumstances.
Okay.
And then just one last question for David or anybody.
Renting single family that's kind of become in vogue with a lot of participants looking to get involved in that opportunity.
How do you see that as a trend for opportunity for EQR? Or is it kind of a non-issue at this point? Embedded in that question perhaps is 2 separate questions.
One is what kind of threat do we see these single-family homes being acquired by investors and being offered for rental? What kind of threat do we see those -- that to our business? And we don't see it as a terribly big threat.
We think that those units are occupied by people who have already elected to make that sort of lifestyle change.
And most likely those homes are now be rented by people who have been dispossessed perhaps of the home that they had previously owned.
And then with respect to any involvement or participation we might have or interest we might have in being that owner we work very hard to really narrow our focus and operate very efficiently by sort of gaining size and scale in smaller footprints.
And I think that it's going to be a challenge for these investors to operate these properties the way that they had hoped and I would not expect us to have any interest in being involved in purchase and ownership of single-family homes for rental.
Yes this is Fred.
I'll add that just from a feedback from our site people it's not even in our radar.
You never hear about it.
And in the markets where you think you would like Orlando Atlanta Phoenix Inland Empire San Fernando Valley area perhaps.
If it comes up in conversations at all it would only be 3 bedrooms.
That segment that is a very small piece of our unit base.
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew Schaffer with Sandler O'Neill.
I have 2 questions.
First in regards to Beatrice acquisition I was wondering how much the going cap rate is affected by the 421a tax abatement? The 4.7% -- 6% or so cap rate is impacted by that.
I would tell you that -- and our guys would suggest to you that if that property did not have that tax abatement that would easily sell with a 3-handle.
Okay.
And then secondly going forward are you looking to do additional deals with the home builders or hotels? And do you see value in that structure? Or is it just another way for you guys to mitigate your risk? We didn't build this deal with this hotel operator.
It was built by a third party and built with it -- with the 2 different uses themselves.
And we were willing to acquire the apartments with the hotel below because we do have experience operating a mixed-use structure like that.
The only deal that we have done -- well I guess we've done 2 one in Jersey City in which we did a joint development venture with the K.
Hovnanian company.
And then most recently we'll start construction soon on a property in Park Avenue South in New York with Toll.
I think in very expensive product mixed-use product if we believe we can make a smart investment and lay some of that off to someone like we did with Toll or work in venture with Toll I think that we'll be happy to do that.
But you'd seen that in markets in which the cost for land is so expensive that hedging that risk ensuring that risk is smart to do.
I would think that there's some conversations perhaps about doing something similar in Boston today.
So I think in those very high-density very costly markets you could see us do that kind of thing Bob.
And I would say I mean it's not a focus but again if there is opportunities to build the right product the right market and it makes sense to do so with a third party we'd certainly consider it.
And our next question comes from the line of Andy McCulloch with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question -- on the 2 acquisitions what are the unlevered IRRs? We have an unlevered IRR expectation on the Beatrice in the high 7s.
I'll tell you I would expect to achieve better than that just because that $1 340 per square foot for the units on such high levels of those floors with the views that they've got retail condo product sells well in excess of that today.
On a pure rental value we've looked at it in the high 7s but I think that we should exceed that.
On the property we bought on Chevy Chase we're in a low 9s.
That is a property that we will do some significant investment into for some rehabs and we'll get some benefit from that.
So high 7s on the Beatrice and the low 9s on the deal on Chevy Chase.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just generally on unlevered returns that you're targeting for your kind of core deals in the markets that you're going after have those moved around all that much? No no.
We've continued to -- on most product -- be in that high 7 range really as a floor.
Mostly -- frankly it's been mostly 8s and above.
And the Beatrice I think it has -- given the fact that it's a brand-new product it had -- it would be high-floor product.
But that was something that maybe got us a touch under 8 on an IRR basis.
But generally everything else has been plus 8%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On Archstone are there any blocks of assets that are being marketed? We've heard about assets for sale that Archstone has got out there.
And perhaps -- but there may be more coming.
And our next question comes from the line of Philip Martin with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I'm interested in the change and the nature of the underlying credit and what the household makeup in your community is the last several years certainly given what's going on and has gone on in single-family housing and et cetera.
I'm interested as to what this may mean for future CapEx gains.
Are your tenants and households demanding something a bit different than they have historically because of the change in the household makeup within your communities? Well I guess I would first start by saying that half of our apartments are really occupied by one person.
So it's not like a lot of families are flocking to our communities.
I mean we -- our supply of 3 bedrooms are very minimal across the portfolio.
And as we continue to shift to our core markets the percentage of studios and smaller one-bedrooms really don't accommodate families.
On the credit side again much of this could have to do with our portfolio shift.
But we continue to see the percentage of people with credit scores above 720 increase each and every quarter.
And then those folks below 500 that number is decreasing.
So it's definitely a sign.
It coincides with what we're saying in that we have good qualified residents coming to backfill those that are moving out.
They have higher incomes.
They have higher credit scores.
And that's the goal that we're trying to accomplish.
Research Division</strong> So from a higher income profile I'm assuming maybe a high -- an older tenant and obviously paying higher rents that may be competing more closely with single-family home ownership in the future.
Would you expect to see your CapEx demands potentially go up if you're dealing with a tenant that's wanting more amenities in the unit or at the property community level? Your question has both sort of long-term and near-term aspects to it.
But the near term aspects to it are we left our CapEx guidance alone on Page 22.
And we expect to spend $1 225 a unit all-in and we spent about $1 200 last year in that the same area.
And certainly these are higher-touch properties we're purchasing and our residents have a very high expectation of us consistent with their higher rent.
But I'll also point out that a lot of these high rises operate very differently than our garden-style apartments in terms of the kind of capital we spend money on.
And the rent ticket is just so much higher that CapEx as a percentage isn't necessarily going up.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave could you give a little more color on the developments specifically which ones you guys have looked to cancel? And also just an update on what you guys expect to spend total for the year on development given the land parcels that you mentioned? Well the deals we have contemplated in starting this year that we do not expect now to start were a couple of land parcels in South Florida.
Again I think we've made considerable profit in the entitlement [ph] work that we've done down there.
And rather than complete that we decided we think we might just explore going and monetizing that value today.
And what I talked about in starting $525 million of starts this year but just in terms of land acquisitions this year will be about $42 million -- incremental from this point forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second of all just going back to leasing what's the average lease duration? Have you seen any change in that? As you're pushing the rent and that [ph] pricing is it still running at 12 months? Or have you seen kind of a pullback on that? Well our typical lease term probably 87% of our leases are 12-month leases.
In New York we have a larger percentage of 24-month leases as those are required by law.
And then really all the rest are just a function of how LRO prices.
I mean there could be some days where a 10-month lease is less than a 12-month lease.
But the bulk of our targeted leases are 12 months.
As far as people staying with us we continue -- even with the turnover we continue to see our average length of stay increase.
So in Q1 our average stay was 1.8 years.
That's what it had been in the previous 2 or 3 quarters I believe.
And then in Q2 we saw that inch up to 1.9 years.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Then the final question just in terms of as you're looking at underwriting today obviously you've captured quite a bit of the pent-up rent growth there just to get back to market.
You expect rent growth to remain above average I think in your comments you put in the press release there.
But when do you expect to start to see -- as growth rates slow over the next couple of years when do you expect to start to see cap rates rise? Are there any markets today where you're seeing upward pressure on cap rates? I guess no.
I think in our markets we're either seeing generally seeing cap rates in our core markets really sort of stabilize.
So we've not seen them continue to go down nor are we seeing them reverse.
And I think what it sort of suggests then is we just think that absolute value continues to increase that the absolute price per pound continues to increase.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you're seeing more price per pound than underwriting on cash flow? Well no.
What I'm saying is that if cap rates are staying consistent and bottom lines continuing to grow then valuation can continue to go up even though cap rates don't continue to compress.
So even though cap rates have been fairly stable across our markets for the past 6 months values have continued to increase because bottom lines have continued to increase.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you haven't seen any changes in actual underwriting the growth rates being underwritten are still the same? Well I guess we continue to expect in the next several years better-than-trend bottom line growth certainly top line growth.
But in every pro forma we'd expect to sort of trend -- get back to historical levels somewhere in the 2 or 3 years out.
But again I have an expectation that we could continue to run above trend for a while but we'll get back to what we think trend would be in the marketplace.
At least in our pro formas maybe by year 3.
And our final question comes from the line of Seth Laughlin with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on revenue guidance.
When you guided this year in February I guess we were looking at [indiscernible] and compare that to today the last 3 months have been under a hundred thousand.
Is that original guidance just conservative on your part allowing for a possible slowdown in the economy? Or is it really a matter of your markets just holding up much better than the national average for that? Yes I think I heard that.
Just talking about the expectations of job growth has moderated.
And I'm sure everybody gets the same or similar economic reports.
And overall the expected job growth for 2012 has been reduced in many markets.
But most of all it's been shifted into 2013 so the 2-year total is very close to the same.
But you have to look at it market by market and really kind of core area by core area.
And some good -- for example New York.
New York had -- lately has been a job production machine.
I mean that was revised dramatically up not sideways or down.
And in fact New York New York City is back above its peak employment of several years ago and back above peak population right there in Manhattan.
So other markets San Francisco very strong on the job front.
Boston is very strong on the job front.
We had good revisions up.
Other markets like maybe -- I think it was L.A.
revised down.
Orange County revised down but still positive.
So it's a mix.
You really have to look at it market by market.
But we are blessed with the portfolio that is heavily weighted on the economic centers that continue to produce jobs and employ people who are college-educated in the urban core who want a rental lifestyle that we deliver.
So it's really kind of on that basis versus the macro overall global or U.S.
economy.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then in the interest of time just one quick one that I had.
Is there a formulaic relationship between your turnover and expenses in other words a relationship where 100 basis points of turnover equals x percentage of expense growth? This is David.
Turnover all of our L&amp;A spend for the most part is Internet-driven.
So I'm to the point where I kind of look at that as a fixed cost.
And then our turnover the actual painting the cleaning the shampooing of carpets what have you I mean that averages $234 of move-out in our portfolio.
So even though we do see increased turnover the impact on expenses ends up being very very minimal.
And I'd now like to turn the conference back to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much for your attention today and we look forward to seeing everybody in the fall.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Equity Residential Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded October 25 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Alicia.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's third quarter 2012 results.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; Fred Tuomi our EVP of Property Management; and David Santee our EVP of Property Operations.
Mark Parrell our CFO is also here with us for the Q&amp;A.
Let me remind you that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn it over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today for our third quarter call on which we're very pleased to report that we continue to see favorable fundamentals across our markets.
And this continued strong demand for rental housing produced same store revenue growth of 5.8% for the quarter ending September 30.
As we sit here today with almost 10 months in the bank and a good handle on expirations or renewals for the balance of the year we're confident that same-store revenues for the full year 2012 will come in at 5.6%.
This is just slightly ahead of our expectations at the beginning of the year.
And this is a very strong level coming off 5% growth in 2011.
And this will represent the first time in our history that we will have had 2 consecutive years of 5% same-store revenue growth or better.
And I'd like to thank the hard-working teams across the Equity nation for doing all that you do each and every day to deliver these terrific results.
Looking into next year we currently expect same-store revenue will grow 4% to 5% in 2013 which will continue a string of some of the best operating performance in the company's history.
As we sit here today a half of that growth is already embedded in our existing rent roll.
So that if we maintained our current occupancy and every existing lease renewed at the same rent as we're collecting today we'd see same-store revenue growth in the low 2s next year.
And that's even if we didn't have any rent growth at all next year which of course we certainly will.
And to give you some perspective on that I'm going to turn the call over to Fred Tuomi our friend our colleague who will be retiring next year after nearly 20 years of leading our property management team.
And Fred is going to address not just what we're seeing today but what we're seeing for the balance of the year and how we expect to start the new year.
Fred? Thank you.
As David mentioned the fundamentals of our business still remain very solid.
We enjoyed a strong leasing season and remain confident for our full year 2012 revenue growth will finish at 5.6% and by the end of the fourth quarter we'll be well positioned for yet another year of very strong revenue growth for 2013.
And I'll now provide an update on the key drivers of our revenue in terms of how we will finish this year and then more importantly how that would carry over into 2013.
The first turnover.
We had a trend of higher turnover that we saw in the first half of this year and that has reversed course.
And we now saw that on the third quarter turnover we had levels below those of the third quarter a year ago in 2011.
We expect this trend to continue into the fourth quarter resulting a full year 2012 turnover now at 58.2%.
Turnover for the year 2013 should be in the range of 58% to 58.5%.
Now the markets with the greatest increase in turnover compared to 2011 still includes San Francisco and Denver where we had very strong growth of base rents and not surprisingly high level of move-outs due to those rate increases.
But for the entire same-store portfolio move-outs due to rate increases have moderated moderated to 11.9% which is down 210 basis points from the third quarter of '11 and down sequentially by almost 300 basis points.
So this moderation indicates further acceptance of our pricing by our newer residents and reflects the seasonal moderation of our rents.
Move-outs due to home buying I have still nothing to report here.
This measure stayed basically flat sequentially from Q2.
It's at 13% which is up 110 basis points over the same quarter last year but still well below our normal levels.
So our customers renting in high-quality urban core buildings are showing very little desire to purchase a home.
Now moving on to occupancy.
We maintained strong occupancy through the leasing season and we're now well positioned as we enter the final 2 months of the year.
Occupancy is 95.6% as of this morning which is 60 basis points higher than the same point last year.
Our exposure is very healthy and we have a 7.1% left-to-lease today.
The normal softening through the fourth quarter has already begun and we expect occupancy to trend down and close the year at about 95% a starting point for 2013 which will be 30 or 40 basis points higher than the starting point we had coming into this year 2012.
And that leads to base rents.
The strength of our demands in the leasing season allowed us to keep pushing the base rents through late August.
We actually peaked for the year -- the intra-year on August 20.
So this intra-year rent peak came 30 days later than it did in 2011 which is an indication of the strong leasing velocity we enjoyed through the summer of 2012.
Now normally -- naturally since then rents have moderated according to our normal seasonal patterns.
The strongest base rent growth continues to come from the Pacific Northwest.
Again as of this week San Francisco base rents are up 10% year-over-year.
Denver is up 7% year-over-year and the base rents from Seattle were up 6% year-over-year however with Central Business District and the Eastside submarkets significantly higher and of course Tacoma significantly lower and actually slightly negative.
Southern California base rents continue to improve.
Los Angeles is up 3.5% year-over-year as of this week.
Orange County is up 4%.
And however San Diego is still lagging with base rents up 2% year-over-year.
Regarding our new residents' ability to pay higher rent levels the average rent as a percent of income remains very healthy at 17.6%.
And all other income and credit quality indicators are keeping pace with rents in our portfolio.
So as we finish 2012 base rents will be about 4% above December of '11.
This gives us an excellent starting point for further base rent growth through the cycle of 2013.
Therefore we believe base rents next year will grow between 4% and 5%.
And finally renewals.
Renewals remain strong and continue to support our revenue growth through the fourth quarter.
Recent achieved renewals have been: August we booked 5.3%; September 5.7% and October renewals finished up 6.1%.
We're quoting November and December well above 7% and expect to achieve increases booked renewals for these 2 months at or above 6%.
So for 2013 we expect to sustain renewal increases in the range of 4.5% to 5.5%.
So in summary we're very confident the balance of 2012 will position us for another solid year of revenue growth in 2013.
And as David mentioned we have embedded growth for 2013 north of 2%.
Again what this means is that if we were to freeze all rents and occupancy as of the first day of 2013 and applied no further increases in base rents and absolutely no increases on any renewals we would mathematically achieve more than 2% growth in revenue.
Of course that's not going to happen.
So based on our current expectations of continued growth if base rent and renewal increases coupled with steady occupancy for next year and in-place seasonal lease expiration schedule we foresee the resulting revenue growth for 2013 of 4% to 5%.
Now David Santee will discuss our expenses.
David? Thank you Fred.
As we've discussed previously payroll utilities and real estate tax account for 68% of our total expense with real estate taxes being our largest expense line item at 30%.
As expected our core property level expenses meaning everything but property management costs and real estate taxes should essentially end the year flat as we continue to leverage technology and find creative ways to reinvent our operations.
Innovation and then executing on that change has become a hallmark of our organization and I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge the efforts of all of our employees both here at Two North and across the country for allowing us to realize our 22nd consecutive quarter of expense growth below 3%.
Over the last 3 years it's no secret that apartment fundamentals have improved dramatically.
This continued improvement coupled with the ongoing economic challenges of states and municipalities has not escaped notice of the tax man either.
I'd like to take just 1 minute to walk you through our 2012 real estate taxes and also provide some insight as to what the next year may look like as we have re-forecasted our 2012 tax growth from 5.5 to the upper quartile of the 6 handle.
Because most actual tax bills are not determined until Q3 estimating full year real estate taxes is both art and science.
Relying on historical outcomes is key to estimating future taxes.
However present economic circumstances are in no way reflective of historical actions by states and municipalities.
Consequently the actions by 3 states far exceeded even our most aggressive forecast.
The State of Washington far exceeded rate forecast resulting in a 6.1% increase.
Both Florida and Virginia issued back-to-back annual valuation increases with 2012 being more aggressive than last year.
Historically when valuations are aggressive tax rates are softened.
This scenario did not play out for this year which resulted in an 8.8% increase for Florida and a 15.1% increase in Virginia.
As for the Q3 expense of 9.3% had we known in January what we know today we would have reported a consistent quarterly expense in the high-6% range.
To achieve our year-end forecast the 9.3% reported in Q3 is the accounting adjustment needed to achieve a fully loaded year-to-date and revised full year expense target.
Now as we think about the 2013 environment we see a very similar scenario playing out for both core operating expenses and real estate taxes minimal core growth and another 6-plus handle for real estate taxes.
Now again a key driver about 150 basis points for both 2012 and 2013 real estate tax growth is directly attributable to our 421a tax abatement burn-off for our New York City portfolio.
The balance is based on our projections of value and rate increases by market.
And for now our assumptions are more influenced by 2012 and 2013 realities versus historical norms.
David? All right.
Thanks David.
Let me turn now to transactions which as we've said for quite some time now is really a reinvestment process for us as we continue to sell assets in our non-core markets and redeploy that capital into our core markets that we think will provide a superior long-term risk-adjusted total return for us.
So in the third quarter we acquired 4 assets for $236 million each great additions to our portfolio 1 in Manhattan and 3 in California 2 in the North and 1 in Southern California.
We acquired a 98-unit property on 37th Street in Manhattan between 9th and 10th Avenues.
This project probably was completed this year and originally intended to be condo product.
As such it has a very high quality with terrific finishes.
And unlike most of the other condo deals we've acquired this one was actually fully leased and was acquired for $84 million $771 000 a door at a 4.9% cap rate.
We acquired 241 units in downtown San Mateo about 16 miles south of downtown San Francisco.
This property was built in 2 phases an older property first phase in '64 and the other in 1972.
It was acquired for $93 million or $386 000 a door.
This is a value add deal in which we intend to invest another $35 000 a door which will result in a sub-4% yielded in the first year but will produce a 5% return in short order and will soon deliver 6%-plus returns.
We also acquired a small property on Bluxome Street in downtown San Francisco.
It was built in 2007.
And I say small both because it's only 102 units but also because the average unit size is 233 square feet.
It's perfect for our target demographic.
The property has average rents of $1 750 per unit per month which is hundreds of dollars below rents on larger studios in the area.
The property was acquired for $23.9 million $234 000 a door at a cap rate of 5%.
We've added to our terrific portfolio in downtown Los Angeles by acquiring a property that was originally built in 1925 and was -- got renovated and converted into apartments in 2006.
This property contains 99 units was acquired for $35.5 million which is $328 000 a door at a cap rate of 4.2%.
On the disposition side through the first 9 months of the year we sold $617 million of non-core assets $281 million of which were sold last quarter.
And so in the quarter just ending we sold 2 153 units.
This comprised of 3 assets in Orlando and 1 each in Phoenix Atlanta and Maryland.
And our last 2 assets developed by joint venture partners 1 in New Jersey and 1 here in Chicago which represents our complete exit from our headquarter city.
We've reduced our transactional guidance for the year on each side of the trade by $150 million.
So we're now down to $1.1 billion of acquisitions and $1.1 billion of dispositions for the year.
Now having sold only 56% of our disposition goal through 9/30 we will have a lot to do in the fourth quarter.
But so far this quarter we've sold or have under contract $160 million of product.
We have another $140 million under letter of intent and another several hundred million more in various stages of marketing.
So we do think as we sit here today we'll be able to accomplish that.
On the development side we continue to be very pleased with the results of our new developments recently brought online the rate of unit absorption remains very strong and net effective rents are in excess of our original pro forma in every case.
We continue to look for new opportunities to add high quality assets in great locations in our core markets through development and acquired 3 new parcels in the third quarter to do just that.
These 3 sites will produce 794 total units at a total development cost of $270 million with a weighted average yield on cost at current market rents in the mid-5 range and these are in markets where high quality assets trade today in the low 4s being Seattle and coastal Southern California.
We started one project in the third quarter.
That's the third and smallest phase our Westgate project in Pasadena containing 88 units for $54 million.
And we have 5 additional projects that are slated to start yet this year 2 in Manhattan 2 in Seattle and 1 in Washington D.C.
There's certainly no guarantee that we'll get each of these started this year and if we don't they'll likely get underway in the first quarter of next year.
But assuming that we do however starts for this year will total 1 051 units $543 million and deliver a 6% yield on current market rents which we think will provide a stabilized yield of 7%.
Now we currently own sites for an additional 3 500 units with the development cost of nearly $1.4 billion in great locations in Boston San Francisco Seattle and Southern California and continue to pursue opportunities for several billion dollars' more development.
So with that Alicia we'll be happy to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for all the detail on 2013.
I'm a little surprised that you provided so much detail so early on.
So just curious what prompted you to put out the revenue guidance earlier than you normally would? Well look we got a pretty clear sense out there that there's a lot of questions about 2013.
And we felt that there was a lot of uncertainty a lot of questions.
We just felt that we had a clear enough sense about where we were headed that it was appropriate to let the investment community know.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just trying to dig into that 4% to 5% revenue growth projection a little bit more.
You said that you're going to get like 2% or just over 2% from the earn in from last year and then you're going to get 4% to 5% on base rents 4.5% to 5.5% on renewals.
I think that's what you said at least.
Shouldn't that bring you sort of closer to 5% revenue growth or are you expecting a little bit of a dip in occupancy next year? No Eric.
This is Fred.
We're assuming that it's constant occupancy and maybe a slight uptick in turnover but you can't just do that math that simply.
You have to take into consideration the seasonality of the lease expirations.
They don't all expire January 1 and we can move everybody January 1 nor do they all expire conveniently exactly in the middle of the year.
So you have to roll that through the actual expirations that we anticipate throughout the year both those that are according to lease expirations and those that may terminate early.
So it's not quite that direct.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then I guess just from a seasonality perspective you would expect things to sort of trend the same way that you're seeing this year? Or is there any sort of change...
No.
We're definitely back to a normal market intra-year seasonality curve.
Maybe for the years of recession and the first-year recovery was a little bit different but really not materially.
But this year clearly was -- we ramped up Q1 really pushed things during the leasing season separate from the comps so you really get aggressive on the rents and then we start moderating as demand moderates.
So you really have to follow the demand cycle and demand cycle is certainly is seasonal in this business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question on supply.
We've obviously seen the starts number continue to decline I think 260 last month.
When you look at that number is there a certain level that starts concerning you? I know it's very regional for you.
So maybe if you think about it just for your markets like what's the level that starts concerning you looking forward? We don't really react to an overall number.
Just per our core markets I did look at that.
In 2012 we have 37 000 units coming in which is the lowest we've ever seen it other than the 2011.
And for '13 we see 54 000 units coming into our markets and just for comparison back in '09 we had 67 000 and in '08 we had 57 000.
So still below those years.
But that's really not that important.
What's more important is that on a market basis and a submarket basis and really down to the street basis where are those new deals coming out? How are they pricing? How are they incenting their absorption lease up schedule through concessions and what's the impact on our specific properties? You really have to build it from property level up.
Yes and you also have look at the demand sides also Eric.
I mean we look at expected household formations and job growth in those markets and look at what historical average institutional-grade apartments sort of capture rate of that growth is.
And frankly in many of these markets we don't think that new supply will meet that incremental new demand.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Bragg with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Research Division</strong> Another question on the 2013 outlook that you provided.
Can you talk about the markets that will be positive contributors to revenue growth in terms of better revenue growth in 2013 than 2012 and the markets that you expect to see the biggest -- the largest deceleration from 2012 into 2013? Yes Dave this is Fred again.
We're not going to give market-by-market guidance.
We really don't give it even later in the process we're certainly not going to give it now.
But you can just kind of look at the trends.
The trends are very strong.
In the strong markets those trends will continue because we have that embedded growth that's going to carry us forward and the markets that a little bit weaker less so.
And I would say just generally in terms of deceleration the only one I would worry about would be Washington D.C.
We've talked a lot about D.C.
It's still holding up quite well right now.
In fact it's looking great.
But we all know there's 2 big things coming at us; the big supply coming at us in D.C highly focused on the district and close in.
And then the big question mark of the fiscal cliff or the sequestration which if it happens could be very disruptive to that market.
So I would expect D.C.
really to be the only market concerned about a deceleration not negative but certainly deceleration of growth.
The others I think you just look at the current trends will continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the lower turnover what does this tell you -- that seeing these trends which I don't think you necessarily expected.
Does it mean that the renters that came in at -- during 2009 and '10 at discounted rents they effectively traded up? That they have departed and now you're working through a resident base with a higher income and a better ability to take on these increases? Thank you.
I couldn't have said it any better myself.
Yes that's exactly it.
The turnover being 58.2 that's right really on top of our original expectation for this year.
But we did revise that expectation up after we saw turnover increasing in early part of the year.
And I think that exactly kind of reversed itself due to -- as newer residents coming in they're used to paying those levels.
They don't have the historical perspective of "Gee I was paying much lower rent back in '08 '09 and '10." And so it's not as much of a shock.
And of course the incomes they're moving up nicely as well.
So I think people are set and they're not buying homes.
They are staying put with this urban core great assets great walk score where they want to live.
They're not buying homes because if they were to buy home today they have to go way up the burbs and fight the inner city.
So we're seeing very good stability in our resident base and our retention.
Research Division</strong> And just one question for Mark.
Mark can you talk about the plans to address the line balance? Yes.
So the line balance is about $850 million.
It'll get paid down about $250 million just because we're going to have a lot more in dispositions in the fourth quarter to meet our guidance numbers than we've had to date.
So the real amount of issue here is really something like $600 million.
Most of that is the term loan that we just recently paid off which was floating rate debt.
So we do want a portion of the revolver to stay outstanding and have a floating rate debt component.
And finally we still do have our hedges in place.
We have about $200 million in swaps-to-fixed that protect us.
So it isn't a matter of if it's a matter of when we access the unsecured market.
But it won't need to be a particularly large deal and doesn't need to be particularly soon because I do want to have some floating rate exposure.
And with the line we can maintain exposure around 13%.
If we termed it all out we would end up having floating rate exposure of 5% or 6% and I just don't think that's quite the number we're looking for.
It is certainly a very attractive market to term debt out right now.
Our next question comes from the line of David Toti with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> I just have a quick question.
I'm not sure if you can answer it but I just want to talk about some of the acquisitions and dispositions and kind of the math.
If we look at the assets that you are buying in aggregate in the quarter what would you estimate the sort of 3-year growth rate would be on those rents roughly? I can't tell you what the 3-year average weighted growth rate would -- is going to be on these but I will tell you that we will -- and these assets will be -- we're buying in the 4s and we'll quickly be in the 5s and moving towards 6.
So -- but again on a dollar weighted average basis I wouldn't have it off the top of my head.
Research Division</strong> Understandable.
And then on the stuff that you're selling in the 6 cap how would you put the -- how would you characterize the growth on those rents maybe on a comparable period whatever that might be? Well I guess we don't really look at it in that short of increment David.
We really look at over a longer period of time.
And while some of those markets may have very strong growth in the next year or so new supply will quickly put an end to that.
We just think over an extended time period which is really our investment horizon that we'll have a better overall total rate of return by making these trades.
We're also looking at just where we're trading assets not simply on a cap rate basis but on an absolute basis and where those dollars are relative to replacement costs in those markets.
And we think that the absolute price per pound makes sense for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My last question and I apologize if you covered this.
I jumped on a bit late.
Are you seeing any -- in your transaction sort of pipeline acquisition pipeline are you seeing any upward movement in cap rates in some of sort of secondary tertiary market that might come across your desk? Well on the acquisition side we're only in the primary markets what we're acquiring.
I probably see maybe a little bit on the D.C.
side.
But generally I think on average cap rates have held fairly close been fairly stable through much of this year.
And because of improvements on the bottom line you've seen modest increases in value during the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And actually that wasn't my last question.
I want to squeeze in one more.
Are you seeing any change in the let's say on the buyer side for the assets that you're selling relative to how those parties our underwriting assets going forward? If there's no movement on the cap rate are you seeing any additional conservatism on the part of the buyer relative to their outlook? No.
I'd say I think a lot of this is sort of lender-driven.
I'm now -- turning now to the assets that we're selling.
I think that a lot of what people can pay is a function of Fannie and Freddie but they're out there they're lending.
They're going to have big books this year.
They're as busy as can be and that's providing capital that actually allow us to continue to sell these assets and allow us to get disposition prices that are in the high 5s to mid-6s.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob Stevenson with Macquarie.
Maybe one for David or Mark.
If I heard correctly you guys were talking about 6% real estate tax growth in 2013.
Did I get that right? That's correct.
Okay.
And then sort of flattish to up slightly for the other 70% of your expense load? That's how we're seeing it today.
Okay.
So that's going to basically put expense growth somewhere in the 2% to 3% for next year? That's how the math works.
Okay perfect.
I wanted to make sure that I had all of that right.
Okay.
And I guess the -- a couple of quick other ones.
The land parcels that you guys bought this quarter is it -- is there still a lot of work that needs to be done there is why the construction is not starting there for another 18-plus months? Or is it something that you guys are looking at where you don't want to deliver supply into those markets in according to with the bulk of what's happening there? Well most of what we've acquired Rob is zoned and entitled and we just need sort of plan review and it just takes a little while to get that stuff done.
But there's not a lot of risk in getting consents and approvals it's just getting plans done and plans reviewed and approved.
Okay.
And then I guess lastly what's the size of the redevelopment opportunity in your sort of ongoing core portfolio today that's over and above what is just sort of general sort of maintenance CapEx which would actually be revenue-producing in terms of -- whether or not it's kitchens and baths or more wholesale stuff on well-located stuff that maybe just has a little bit of age on it? Yes.
I think you should expect to see us -- we have something along the lines -- and we talk about that a little bit on Page 22 -- something along the lines of 4 000 to 5 000 units a year in a portfolio give or take 100 000.
So I mean a lot of our locations are just terrific locations and you just need to keep the product up-to-date.
So I'm not sure that there is a cumulative number I can give you which is I think what your question was.
But I think a run rate of us doing rehabs that are fairly material on 4% or 5% of the portfolio is probably what we would end up doing.
And I mean is that just what you think that you can do or I mean is there the opportunity for you guys if the acquisition market starts to become less attractive that you could deploy capital there faster than you would otherwise would have or is it just mutually exclusive that that's what basically your opportunity that is.
I appreciate the question but just on order of magnitude we spent $40 million on rehabs.
And though the returns are very solid they're -- I mean that's one asset we would acquire.
So I'm not sure that toggling rehabs even doubling them to a company of our size is going to make a great deal of difference.
Our next question comes from the line of Jana Galan of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I think you have a small handful of assets that cater to students.
Given the increase in student housing communities marketed for sale I was curious if you're looking at those or would want to expand in that business? I'm sorry to increase our exposure or decrease our exposure? Increase.
Research Division</strong> Increase.
No.
I think that we certainly got -- have assets and even assets that we have acquired in urban locations that do have some students but the percentage is certainly smaller.
We do have properties for instance in Orlando which would be part of assets that we'd likely sell in the near future.
We also do have some development sites in Berkeley California which we intend to build which would certainly be attractive to students.
So it's not a big part of our strategy.
It would really be just on the margin.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Fred thank you so much for your comments on the supply in D.C.
I was just curious if you could talk a little bit about what you're seeing in Seattle? Yes Seattle is doing great right now especially downtown and the Eastside.
Snohomish is just a little bit softer.
And then Tacoma -- we do have a fairly large portfolio in Tacoma and it's still kind of underwater.
But Seattle has a great run.
I mean tech employment is very high.
Amazon is hiring a lot of people.
Microsoft has a lot of different projects going on hiring a lot of people.
Google is moving in big time into Seattle.
The biotech is great.
So it's really a great story in Seattle all the way around.
But the supply is an issue.
We've got 3 000 units this year 5 000 units next year and that supply is pretty much concentrated in the downtown area and the fringe of downtown in places like Ballard and some are even in West Seattle.
But the absorption is strong.
And there's a lot of people in the renter demographic that are coming into the city.
A lot of people from the other areas are moving into downtown and doing a reverse commute.
So we think the absorption is going to be there to meet that supply.
And if it doesn't we may have a little bit of an issue in certain -- those concentrated areas primarily the CBD but it's going to be short-lived.
So the supply for '13 and '14 -- I would say it's a moderate issue but not a big issue because the demand should be there to meet it.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess I'm just curious if the 2013 revenue growth number is there a certain job growth expectation in that? No.
We don't go from macro to micro.
We consider the macro environment but we build these things from the ground up what's in place and the trends and asset by asset.
So we don't really take a headline number and then peg our operations based on that.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
Andrew Schaffer here.
I'd first like to ask you about -- I think I heard you had $200 million of -- around unassigned hedges and I was wondering what kind of effect that would have on the all-in rate of a 10-year or a 30-year unsecured issuance? So that 10-year hedge is about $200 million or $44 million to the negative right now.
So basically you'd take the $44 million divide it by 10 and then whatever the amount of the notional is.
So I'm not sure I'm going to do that math in my head right now but it's probably on a $400 million deal something like 1%.
Okay.
And does that change the way you think about the -- issuing 10-year versus 30-year paper because I know in the past you said you kind of prefer to shy away from the 30-year? The hedges don't really have anything to do with our thought process on 30-year debt.
The hedges are there to just allow us to access the market at an opportune time.
Our concerns about a 30-year debt have a lot more to do with just having covenants that are real and substantive continue on for such a long period of time.
To handcuff our successor-successor-successor with those kind of important and substantive covenants on leverage is just something we need to be careful about.
and to this point we haven't had any appetite to do.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You talked a little bit -- you gave quite a bit of detail on operations for '13 and you also talked about development starts in the fourth quarter.
Can you give us a sense just as you're putting the plans together what you're thinking on the development side what you could start for '13 as well? Well again a lot of it is just timing and what can actually be started in the year what might have to be pushed into the next year.
But as we look at our agenda today we've got $700 million of product that could start in 2013 Mike.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's in addition to the $540 million you talked about in the fourth quarter? That's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question you had a 170 basis points spread during the quarter.
And I know you've talked about looking at price per pound as well but at what point does that spread become too wide? Well again it's more value.
Look we have -- we're on record as having said that we're going to exit certain of these markets and try and redeploy that capital.
And when we find assets to buy that we think makes sense for a long-term investment standpoint and can match that up against sales that we think make sense -- and it's not just simply cap rates.
I mean we certainly do pay attention to that delta but it's also just where can we sell assets on a price per pound versus what we think replacement costs are on those markets and we try to decide if that makes sense.
So I wouldn't focus so much on the 170.
A lot of that is just the complexion of what happened to be sold in one quarter versus what happened to be acquired in one quarter.
Historically we've seen that delta to be about 125 basis points.
It'll be a little wider now because we've seen more aggressive pricing where we want to invest and cap rates I think being held up a little bit in the markets we want to sell.
But we really -- we do look at the absolute values in those markets and still do think that those represent decent prices for us to exit that.
LLC Research Division</strong> But as you're underwriting these transactions have you changed your rent growth assumptions at all in the last 6 months? Well I guess -- I've been asked that question a lot.
And I will tell you our 2013 sort of rent growth assumptions are probably pretty consistent with what they thought they -- we -- they were going to be back in 2010 and 2011.
So as we look forward 12 months today they're probably less than what we look at 12 months forward 12 months ago.
But I don't think we're looking at 2013 today any differently the way we look at 2013 for a while.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the final where could you issue unsecured paper today? That one is probably for Mark.
And then I'm just curious for your '13 outlook what your expectations are for Southern California? Seems like you had a pretty decent ramp-up there.
I wonder if you expect that to continue into '13 and if you expect Southern California to be among your better performing markets there.
I'm going to address the debt issue.
It's Mark.
Right now I think we could issue 10-year unsecured paper at something between say 3% and 3.1%.
On the secured side just by means of comparison I think that would be more like 3.3% right now.
And I'll push it back to Fred for the SoCal question.
Yes.
Southern California continues to improve.
You can see that in our numbers.
I wouldn't say it's like screaming back.
But it's good steady consistent improvement whereas 18 months ago we were complaining that it was start/stop 2 steps forward/1 step back kind of lumping [ph] kind of thing.
So it is consistent improvement in moving up.
I'd say that both L.A.
and Orange County have some good job growth rate now.
L.A.
is a little bit more back-loaded this year so it remains to be seen.
But Orange County has some good broad-based steady improvement on the job front.
So rents are still below the peak levels.
We still have a little bit more juice to get back to those levels.
So I think it's to be expected they'll continue to be one of our better performers I wouldn't say maybe the best but one of the better performers next year.
Now there's 2 risk areas.
The biggest risk is just California.
It's still very messed up as we know and they've got some serious fiscal issues in the state of California and some legislative things coming up here in this next vote which is really going to be an issue.
If California has to really cut expenses then there could be some severe cuts in government jobs and education et cetera.
So that could take some of the growth fervor out of it.
And then also we have a little bit of supply coming into L.A.
On a macro basis it's not a big number based on the size of that market but it's highly concentrated in downtown Wilshire and San Fernando Valley again.
So maybe a little bit of issue there.
Orange County looks great.
San Diego has always been the laggard but it's got a lot of good things going on broad base good job growth.
But the military and defense sector overhang there is a little bit of a concern.
It's going to keep San Diego I think still in third place.
Our next question comes from the line of Philip Martin with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> A question on just the overall Equity Residential portfolio.
Nationally or by individual market are you experiencing any meaningful shift in average length of stay by the tenant? This is David Santee.
We look at that every quarter.
I would say that -- well as we continue to transition our portfolio typically high-rise buildings have much lower turnover than garden communities.
When you look at on a market-by-market basis the average length of stay in say a New York a New England a Boston a San Francisco is double that almost 3 years versus the commodity markets like Phoenix Atlanta Orlando which is about 1.6 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And when you look at the 17.6% rent -- average rent as a percent of income take us back over the last call it 5 to 10 years and what has been -- kind of pre-crisis what was that number and how has that changed over the last 5 years or so? This is Fred.
I can't give you that number going back 10 years.
But since we've been focused on here the last several years it really hasn't changed.
It's 17 range.
The median is 21 22.
And it's been fairly consistent and if there's been any movement it's just getting more favorable.
Again related to what David mentioned about our portfolio shift we're getting better assets better locations better residents better incomes and much higher rents.
So I think it's very steady and stable and if anything improving on the margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
My last question.
In terms of the new supply it sounds like in certainly your core markets the supply -- existing and new supply coming on is not of this institutional quality where yours is.
Is that a fair statement? Because I mean again I know it's property-by-property as opposed to market-by-market but I'm just trying to get a sense of -- because we hear "new development starts " and it may look high but is it really competitive product when compared to your institutional quality product or your location? I'm just trying to get a better sense of the competitive supply.
Right.
Yes.
I understand.
We look at it really asset-by-asset and what's coming into its location is going to be a competitive threat to our existing assets.
Now in some markets you do see a headline numbers like say Boston is going to have 3 000 units delivered.
Well if you look at those we're not really too concerned because a lot it is out in the suburbs and a lot of it are small properties and a lot of it are affordable product.
So you're right.
So a lot of these are smaller in-locations that don't impact institutional assets and are affordable nature that don't compete with our resident set.
But I can tell you too that we do have an issue.
D.C.
a lot of these products coming out are right in our wheelhouse.
I mean they're institutional grade high-quality great located buildings are being developed.
So I'm not going to say we're not going to have competitive threat but you just can't react to a headline number.
Our next question comes from the line of David Harris with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Excuse me if you did not cover this because you've already made reference to these points.
But NAREIT over the summer David you referenced to some elements of conditionality regarding the Archstone payments.
Those no longer are relevant to the second payment that -- what you've referenced is being likely to be included in the fourth quarter.
David it's Mark Parrell.
That expired about October 4 that conditionality.
So we will recognize the remaining $80 million in income in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then one final question on the acquisition and sales to meet your full year targets it looks like you've got to be looking to buy about $200 million and sell $500 million is that right? That's the math.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's the math.
Any idea or timing on some of that David? Well it will be in the fourth quarter David.
I mean are you looking for November 17? LLC Research Division</strong> Well I don't know where I'm going with that question.
It's always good to introduce levity into these rather [boring] [ph] conference calls I have learned after all these years.
The -- where I'm going with that is are any deals this side of the election or are any people expressing any sensitivity either both buyers or -- you as a buyer or potential sellers around the election? No I don't think so at all David.
I think that certainly you can see changes in activities result of year end.
But I don't think -- we've got nothing that's contingent on the election that would change the sellers' mind or our mind.
That's -- we're running our business we're going -- doing what we can do and are not concerned about the election.
Our next question comes from the line of Josh Patinkin with BMO Capital Markets.
On the development side you're underwriting projects to 5.5% yield on today's rents.
Just trying to get a feel for if project costs or material costs are going to move commensurately with rent growth or how you're viewing that? Well we do trend increases in construction costs from our underwriting to the time that we would expect to be able to start pricing jobs out.
And I'll tell you that we think construction costs are still maybe down 10% from peak but are rising.
And most of our markets will be up sort of mid-single digits this year.
And how about labor costs or is that part of the whole picture? Well that would be part of that calculus.
Okay.
Great.
I believe Rich is on the line with a question as well.
Let's assume for a second that the housing recovery is real and that we don't go to 59% homeownership rate.
Tell me what the opportunity is from your perspective the multifamily perspective considering that people getting a job rent -- building a home for example may not be your target tenant? I'm not -- I mean people that are getting a job and building a home? Yes.
I mean everyone is saying "Well this is great because it will create job growth " but are those the types of people that are going to rent an apartment from you? And I'm just curious if there will be downward pressure in that environment from people [indiscernible].
I think that improvements in the single-family space is just good for the economy.
And whether or not the guy who is now hanging drywall is our resident or not I think that's good for the economy.
And that will be good for everyone.
So...
But as good as good -- I mean a moderation should be expected correct even in that improving economy environment? A moderation of what? Of growth rent growth.
Well we just said we're going from 5-plus to 4 to 5.
That's really not moderation.
That's rounding or kind of...
Well call it whatever you want.
I mean look we think that multifamily supply new incremental multifamily supply will not meet what we think will be incremental new demand.
We obviously targeted on this 80-million strong echo boomer generation and we think they are interested in buying a single-family home while they may want to they'll act on that later.
David Santee told you what the average occupancy is in our units.
So we don't think the single-family homes are a huge threat to us.
We don't think multifamily supply maybe outside of D.C.
and San Jose and maybe a little bit in Seattle short-term will be long-term threat.
We think that the space today is pretty well-positioned to perform above -- well-above trend for some time to come.
I mean I can't tell you that's -- what level of moderation that sort of means but we're certainly not suggesting 2013 will show the same percentage growth we've seen the last couple of years.
But still we think very strong on a historical basis.
I would think that the majority of people who are going to be the first to jump and buy a home are probably those renting homes today not living in apartments.
And those that are come back onto the payroll from the construction jobs and other homebuilding-related recovery I don't think they're going to go from unemployed to employed to homeownership.
Okay.
And just an unrelated question.
Is -- in your mind putting aside your involvement in Archstone is an IPO from that company good for the space or bad for the space in your opinion? I guess I'll leave that up to the analysts like you and to the investors.
We -- they're hell-bent on going public.
We continue to think and have thought as you know for a long time that it made sense to maybe do something with us.
But looks like they're going to go public and the market will react to that.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I'm good.
I'm showing no further questions in the queue at this time.
Please continue.
Well good.
Thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to seeing you in San Diego in just a few weeks.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Equity Residential Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded February 6 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Alicia.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's fourth quarter 2012 results and our outlook for 2013.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; David Santee our EVP of Property Operations; and Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn the call over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
As we reported our earnings release last night for the full year 2012 Equity Residential delivered same-store revenue growth of 5.5% and NOI growth for the year of 7.6%.
These results are slightly above our expectations at the beginning of the year and are among the best numbers in our 20-year history.
We're very pleased that for the very first time ever we've had 2 consecutive years of 5% same-store revenue growth or better.
So we're very pleased with our operating performance last year and we wanted to acknowledge the contributions of the Equity team across the country and here in Chicago that delivered such strong performance for us.
And I'm pleased to say that as we sit here today we continue to see favorable fundamentals across our markets and expect to achieve yet another year of operating performance above historical trend in 2013 and now will continue to string some of the best year-over-year results in our history.
Clearly though with same-store revenue guidance of 4% to 5% and NOI guidance of 4.5% to 6% we're not expecting our same-store result to be quite as strong this year as they were last year.
But things are still very good across our markets.
Occupancy is currently 95.1% which is very strong for this point in the season.
We put 5.1% more money in the bank this January compared to January 2012 from our current same-store set of nearly 108 000 units.
More than 4 000 January leases were -- lease renewals were completed up 6%.
Nearly 3 500 February renewals have been completed up 5.4%.
And a limited number of March renewals have already been done up 5.1%.
So thus far the year is setting up pretty much as we expected.
To give you more perspective on our operating outlook for 2013 I'll turn the call over to David Santee who as most of you know has been responsible for building and running our centralized operations platform which has been so important to our past and will be to our future success.
And with Fred Tuomi's pending retirement David has taken on the added responsibility of overseeing our day-to-day on-site property management business and I know that Fred agrees with me that he's leaving the business in very very capable hands.
David? Thank you David.
As noted in last night's press release same-store guidance for 2013 is based on an expected year-end unit count of 80 120 apartments versus the 107 870 we have today.
The vast majority of the 27 750 units which by the way was the size of the company when we first went public slated for disposition are expected to close prior to or shortly after quarter end which gives us the confidence to provide you the impact to year-end results today.
The net change as a result of these dispositions is favorable to improve revenue growth neutral to total expense growth and significantly lowers our forecasted resident turnover.
What this all means is that we expect same-store revenue growth to improve modestly as a result of the change in our same-store pool.
But our number will still be within the range so we are leaving our 2013 same-store projected revenue growth unchanged from our earlier Q3 guidance of 4% to 5%.
Fundamental factors of supply while increasing appear to be manageable while demand continues to be steady as the economy continues to pick up steam fueling increased job growth and household formation.
As we have discussed previously we expect short-term disruptions to pricing power in specific neighborhoods in Washington D.C.
North San Jose and Seattle.
However the combined dynamics of favorable long-term demographics and the continued aversion and economic challenges to homeownership will ensure steady demand for rental housing for the near term.
Seattle proved to be a testament to this model by absorbing almost 8 000 units in 2012 while increasing occupancy 120 basis points.
Move-outs to buy homes purchased homes for our Seattle portfolio only increased by 65 for all of 2012.
For all of our core markets this is further supported by recent improvements in job creation especially within our younger college-educated urban cohort were unemployment dropped from 4.1% last year to 3.7% in January.
Our resident base remains very healthy with rent as a percent of income remains steady in the 17% range and the percentage of FICO score is above 720 continuing to grow.
For 2013 revenue guidance I'll now address the 4 key drivers in more detail.
Those are resident turnover; physical occupancy; base rent pricing meaning our net effective rates on new leases; and renewal pricing.
For 2013 we expect adjusted same-store turnover to be approximately 160 basis points lower to 56.2% from 58.2%.
This reduction is a direct result of exiting higher turnover Sunbelt markets like Atlanta and Phoenix.
We would expect turnover in our core markets to remain virtually unchanged or slightly lower as move-outs due to renewal increases continue to decline as renters reposition themselves at their appropriate price point.
In other words residents who have experienced back-to-back double-digit renewal increases have since moved on and been replaced by higher-quality residents who on average will receive a mid to high single-digit rent increase going forward.
Our occupancy assumption of 95.3% is not impacted by dispositions and is identical to full year 2012 actual although we are trending ahead of target by 20 basis points for both January and February.
As David mentioned renewal pricing continues to be strong and we would expect renewal rents achieved to exceed 5% on average throughout the year.
And finally base rents.
As we sit here today base rents for all 107 000 same-store units are 3% higher versus same week last year as we begin to gradually move them up from their normal seasonal lows.
For the full year we would expect base rents to average 4% to 4.5% growth with lower growth in the first and fourth quarter and higher growth during peak leasing season.
This is no different than years past.
So to recap resident turnover will decline to 56.2 as a result of higher turnover at market exits; occupancy of 95.3% identical to 2012 actual; renewal increases in excess of 5% for the entire year; and base rents to average 4% to 4.5% for the full year.
For expenses guidance on adjusted same-store unit count of 80 120 units is 2.5% to 3.5% which is no change to our full 107 000 units same-store unit count.
And this is in line with our discussion on our last call in Q3.
As we've discussed previously real estate taxes payroll and utilities make up 68% of total operating expense and there is no change to this percentage as a result of the expected dispositions.
However the percentage of real estate taxes to total expense does move from 30% to 33% offsetting a 30 basis point decline in growth from 6.5% down to 6.3% to really achieve a net 0 impact for full year same-store expense growth.
Utilities will have marginal growth of 2.5% as we continue to invest in green initiatives like LED lighting retrofits and upgrading and optimization of central systems.
Payroll should again be well under control at sub-2% while all other core operating counts are flat to down as we continue to find innovating ways to leverage our platform optimize costs and realize immediate benefit to our same-store portfolio as a result of adding the Archstone assets.
With that said I'd also like to recognize everyone for the tremendous effort put forth over the past several months and especially those who are involved in the huge disposition effort.
We are all energized by the tremendous amounts of activity and even more invigorated and excited about what lies ahead.
All right.
Thank you David.
Normally at this time I describe our investment activity and try to give a little color as to what we've acquired and what we've sold during the quarter.
Clearly with the Archstone announcement and all that's been going on around here last 6 months there's been very little normal activity taking place here.
Now in just a moment Mark Parrell will go through the specifics about the capital market activities necessary for us to move towards -- forward towards the late February closing of the Archstone purchase along with our partners AvalonBay.
But in addition to the capital market execution there remain another critical part of our funding plan that I want to talk about and that was frankly a very significant but manageable execution risk for us.
And that's the disposition of approximately $4 billion of noncore assets representing 40% of our $10 billion share of the purchase of Archstone.
But this was among the most important strategic benefits of the entire transaction for us so not only acquire a portfolio of high-quality assets in our targeted high-barrier markets but to do so with proceeds from the sale of assets in our remaining noncore markets and the sale of often older more suburban or otherwise nonstrategic assets in our core markets.
And thereby complete the last piece of the transformation of our portfolio which will soon be comprised nearly entirely the best assets in high-barrier markets with housing cost far in excess of the national average which we believe will provide superior long-term total returns.
So for the last years we'd worked to acquire all or some of Archstone we had identified the assets that we would target for sale should we be successful in our pursuit.
We did all the work necessary to understand the value we might realize from their sale and we readied those assets for an immediate sales process.
Throughout the fall as the possibility that we might be successful in our pursuit of Archstone increased we slowed our acquisition pace and prepared for the launch of an accelerated level of dispositions.
At the time of our late November announcement of our partnership with AvalonBay to acquire Archstone and as we discussed during our secondary equity offering the funding strategy call for the sale of $4 billion of assets.
And that activity is projected to take place ratably over the year averaging about $1 billion per quarter.
Now since we will be borrowing at historically low floating rates to finance this disposition plan the longer it took to sell the assets the more positive arbitrage we'd enjoy in 2013.
And during which time this portion of the Archstone purchase will be very earnings accretive.
But the longer we took to sell the assets the more overall market and execution risk we faced.
While we are ready to bring assets to the market upon announcement I'm happy to say the reception to our offerings has been very strong.
We now expect to close nearly $3 billion of dispositions in the first quarter another $1 billion of dispositions in the second quarter and $500 million in the second half of the year significantly mitigating the execution risk of our purchase of Archstone.
Now I'm a very pleased to say that all of this disposition activities has been done at our expected pricing.
So this accelerated activity and risk mitigation did not come at a discount to any value whatsoever.
However as noted in the last night's press release it's a fact that this accelerated disposition activity reduced our expectations for 2013 Normalized FFO by $0.13 per share from what we thought at the time of announcement of the Archstone transaction.
It's equally important to note that the timing of these sales will have no impact on 2014 performance.
On the development side of our business we continue to be very pleased with the results of the new properties brought online or soon to be completed.
The rate of unit absorption remains very strong and net effective rents are in excess of our original pro forma in most every case leading the pack with our Ten23 project in Manhattan which is now 97% occupied.
At rent they're 13% above our original pro formas.
During the fourth quarter we continue to look for new opportunities to add high-quality assets in great locations in our core markets through development and we acquired 4 adjacent parcels in Los Angeles located around the Howard Hughes campus on the west side of the 405 Freeway.
These sites are entitled for 970 total units.
And at the present time we plan on building 545 units on 2 of the parcels at a cost of approximately $194 million at yields on current rents in the mid-5s and the expected stabilized yield in the high-6s.
And at the present time we'll either inventory the other 2 parcels for future development or consider selling them.
We did start 1 development project in the fourth quarter last year.
That's our co-development project with Toll Brothers 400 Park Avenue South in Manhattan.
When completed we will own and operate 269 apartment units on floors 2 through 22.
And Toll Brothers will offer for sale its condominiums 99 units on floors 23 through 40.
Our share of the development costs are approximately $252 million.
Project is expected to be ready for occupancy in late 2014 and our expected yields on cost at current rents is in the high 5s with stabilized yields in the high 6s.
We currently own 14 land sites and control 2 others representing a pipeline of about 4 800 units with a development cost of nearly $1.8 billion in great locations in New York Washington D.C.
San Francisco Seattle and Southern California.
And in addition to the 6 projects currently under development by Archstone we will also take ownership of 4 land sites and gain control of 2 others that we would expect to acquire.
5 of these 6 sites are in the San Francisco Bay Area and the other in Washington D.C.
and have a total development cost of $1.1 billion.
We have the potential to begin construction this year on as many 7 of the EQR land sites.
Several of which we're ready to start last year but we put them on ice while we dealt with the execution of the Archstone acquisition.
And with that now well in hand to our dispositions our starts this year on EQR owned or controlled sites could total more than $500 million in New York Seattle San Francisco and Southern California.
Several of the Archstone land sites may also be ready to start in 2013.
But like our own pipeline we'll address all potential development starts on a case-by-case basis with an eye on appropriate sources of funding.
So we remain very excited about our development pipeline and that which we will acquire from Archstone and think we'll be able to add great assets to our portfolio in key locations continuing to create value for shareholders through our development business.
So now I'll ask Mark to take you through our capital markets activities and our 2013 guidance.
After which we'll be happy to open the call to Q&amp;A.
Thank you David.
I want to take a few minutes this morning to review our recent capital markets activity and then give some color on our Normalized FFO guidance and our disposition and funding strategies impacting our Normalized FFO numbers.
I will also discuss how we expect our balance sheet our credit metrics and liquidity to look post Archstone and give you some thoughts about accessing the debt markets.
I will end with a couple of accounting housekeeping items.
So we've had an extremely busy few months getting ourselves positioned to fund the Archstone deal.
So just a quick review of that activity.
Immediately after the deal announced that we began our public equity offering in which we sold 21.9 million common shares at a gross price of $54.75 per share for net proceeds of approximately $1.16 billion which is about $53.11 net per share.
We are very appreciative of the support of our investors in this extremely successful offering.
In January we entered into a new $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement with a group of about 25 financial institutions.
This new facility matures in April 2018 and has an interest rate of LIBOR plus a spread which at our current credit rating is 1.05% the spread is and has an annual facility fee of 0.15% or 15 basis points.
This facility replaced the company's existing $1.75 billion facility which was scheduled to mature in July 2014.
The bank syndicate is broadly diversified and all our existing banks renewed and increased their commitment in Equity Residential and we added several prominent financial institutions to the syndicate as well.
At the same time we entered into a new unsecured $750 million delayed draw term loan facility with the identical bank syndicate.
The maturity date of the facility is January 11 2015 and it's subject to a 1 year extension option exercisable by the company.
The term loan has an interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.2% at our current credit rating.
The facility is currently undrawn and is available in 1 draw made on or before July 11 2013 and can be used to fund the Archstone acquisition or for any other corporate purpose.
With the completion of these financing activities and along with the cash on hand that we have the company has sufficient capital to fund its portion of the Archstone acquisition cash price also fund transaction costs and required debt pay-downs at closing.
So we were comfortably able to terminate our $2.5 billion bridge loan facility commitment.
So with the capital markets activity understood I want to move on and speak a little bit about guidance.
Year in and year out the performance of our same-store pool of properties is the biggest driver of our Normalized FFO.
But in 2013 there certainly are a couple other important pieces to the puzzle that can move our 2013 Normalized FFO numbers materially.
First as David noted the timing of dispositions to fund the Archstone transaction and the use to which we put those disposition proceeds will have a major impact on 2013 Normalized FFO.
And second new store activity in the form of net operating income from the Archstone acquisition will constitute more than 20% of our total operating income in 2013 and will be a major factor in Normalized FFO.
But of the course it will not show up in our same-store annual set numbers.
So now just a quick reminder on our funding strategy for the Archstone acquisition.
Our plan for funding our $10 billion of the transaction has not changed.
We already sourced $3 billion of equity from the public markets and from Lehman.
We expect to obtain $4 billion from dispositions of noncore assets which as David Neithercut just said is a process that we have well in hand.
We plan to use our new expanded revolver and our new term loan to fund this portion of the deal these dispositions until these disposition transactions close.
And the final piece is we will assume slightly more than $3 billion of Archstone fixed rate and tax exempt secured debt for a total of $10 billion.
While our funding strategy for Archstone has not changed since the announcement of the deal our expectation of the time it will take to complete our disposition plans has.
By taking advantage of the strong market bid for our noncore assets we have greatly reduced funding risk that does cause an increased amount of dilution.
To be able to do the dilution calculation you need to understand how we plan to use the $3 billion of disposition proceeds out of the 4 I mentioned before that we expect to receive after the Archstone closing.
We anticipate taking $1.5 billion of the $3 billion of disposition proceeds and using them to pay down our revolving line of credit.
At the end of 2013 we expect that the revolver will have a balance of slightly less than $200 million.
We have included in the guidance the use of $1 billion of these disposition proceeds to pay down $800 million in principal of Archstone secured debt that would otherwise mature in 2017 that we are assuming along with the related $200 million prepayment penalty.
This payoff reduces our 2017 debt maturities to a more manageable level.
Otherwise our 2017 debt maturities inclusive of the Archstone debt we're assuming would have increased to a number slightly over $3 billion.
But prepayment penalty and the related write-off of the unamortized mark-to-market premium are detailed for you on Page 28 of the supplement.
The remaining $500 million we used for various corporate purposes including retiring the $400 million in unsecured debt that the company has maturing in April 2014 -- or 2013 pardon me.
We are planning on leaving the entire balance of the term loan outstanding from closing until the end of 2013.
Because of the accelerated pace of dispositions and because of the new term loan we no longer anticipate assuming any short-term floating rate secured Archstone debt.
As David said it was very important to us that we derisk the Archstone deal as quickly as possible.
The steps we took with regard to the financing of the deal were done with that goal in mind.
The actions we have taken on the capital market side and the expected dispositions leave as very pleased with our balance sheet with our debt maturity schedule and with what our liquidity will look like at the end of 2013.
Measured at year end 2013 we would expect to cover our fixed charges at about 2.5x to have a debt to undepreciated book value of assets ratio of about 40% and have a debt-to-EBITDA ratio of about 7.0x.
Without the Archstone transaction we would have expected that our debt-to-EBITDA ratio in 2013 would have been in the mid-6s and our fixed charge coverage ratio would have been around 2.8x.
We expect liquidity at year end and that will be mostly in the form of undrawn capacity in our $2.5 billion revolving line of credit to be substantial at about $2.2 billion.
We see development spending in 2013 of about $500 million which has been factored into the liquidity planning and all of the credit metrics that I just discussed.
Overall we think it's wise to match the long duration of our expected ownership period of the Archstone assets with a set of liabilities that have a similarly long duration.
Over time we will look to extend or term out the $950 million in Archstone debt maturing in 2015 -- or 2014 and the $1 billion in Archstone debt maturing in 2017 that we are assuming.
We will be opportunistic in looking at the unsecured market and we'll also take advantage of the favorable extension terms offered us by the existing lender on some of the 2017 debt and we'll also consider the preferred market as well.
And finally just a couple of quick details to cover on the accounting side.
Just as our normalized 2012 FFO did not include $150 million of Archstone termination fees our normalized 2013 FFO will not include approximately $189 million of primarily Archstone-related transaction costs or any prepayment penalties that we may end up incurring.
On Page 28 of the release we have added a new disclosure schedule that lists 2013 noncomparable items.
The dollar amounts on Page 28 tie to the per share numbers at the top right corner of Page 29.
We think this disclosure will help investors bridge the larger-than-usual gap this year between our Normalized FFO guidance and our funds from operation as defined by NAREIT.
Now I'll turn the call over to Alicia for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of David Toti with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> I have one question for you David.
It's kind of more of a strategic one around obviously commentary that your sales have accelerated beyond your expectation which is a great sign.
The question then is why not be a bigger seller in this market? Why not take the portfolio and distill it even further and intensify that quality in that growth profile from your current projections? Well $4 billion is not enough for today.
Look selling these -- our disposition program this year will put us in a position where we will have exited Tacoma Jacksonville Atlanta and Phoenix.
We'll still have some exposure in some markets such as Orlando and the Inland Empire and sort of what we call our non-Boston New England portfolio.
So we'll still have some product to sell.
And as we get further in the year we'll see what the market brings.
But we acknowledge we have a little bit more to do.
We think we can be -- do that over more extended time period and perhaps be more strategic with that.
But I think $4 billion is an awful lot of dispositions.
And again most of them will be done the first part of the year we'll just see what that -- what happens in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I won't argue that's not a big number.
Are there other markets that you would say would be potentially flagged as kind of the second level of exit? Could you disclose something like that? The second level of what? Research Division</strong> Of exit.
Are there markets that you'd say "Okay if we get down to the number...
No I think we're getting to the point where most of the dispositions will be sort of noncore assets in our core markets so more older suburban sort of things that frankly we'll be able to rotate out of in the new assets at a much tighter spread than when you're selling noncore markets and allocating in the core markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just have a follow-up question relative to the dynamics in some of your markets where the affordability inversions are somewhat extreme like in Atlanta and the Southern California.
Can you just comment relative to those 2 markets on turn rates and move-out rates? And in some cases you're seeing some rents strikes and those dynamics don't really make sense to me on the surface.
Dave this is David Santee.
You cracked up on me a little bit at the end.
As far as Atlanta goes Atlanta is doing very well.
I think that's more about -- we've sold down that portfolio.
Historically we were an outside perimeter organization early in the 2000s we acquired assets in Midtown Buckhead area and that's really the last of our remaining assets there.
So I think Atlanta is probably no different than any other market.
You're seeing an urban attraction people looking for great walk scores.
And so those properties are doing well and Atlanta is -- they're doing a -- billing a 6 year-to-date so far.
Southern California is a very vast area.
And I would say that the rent income really hasn't changed there.
It's been 20.
It's always been 20.
We continue to have assets up in Santa Clarita.
We have a lot of new store assets that are more urban near more urban centers L.A.
West L.A.
what have you.
So again I think one of the more important things to remember is that L.A.
Orange County San Diego those rents are still not at peak levels that we saw in 2008.
So I think we still have a lot of runway left in Southern California.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just some quick questions here.
First big picture and then just some guidance stuff.
Archstone obviously spent a lot of money establishing a brand.
You guys have gone the opposite route and not gone the branded strategy.
Now that you're going to have all these Archstone communities and have Archstone plastered everywhere are you going to keep that brand for a while and see maybe if it is worth keeping? Or your view is "You know what let's just bring it -- let's just rename all these properties to a generic?" Well I'll answer that question in 2 parts.
I'll let David talk about our perspective about branding.
But I'll just start out by telling you that our arrangement with AvalonBay is the name will be off all of the Archstone buildings by the end of 2014.
So the Archstone brand itself will not continue.
And I'll let David talk a little bit about the way we thought about branding.
Yes.
So I've been to most of the Archstone communities.
I would tell you that -- I mean in their structure I think they had probably 14 different marketing regions so to speak.
And each property is branded to varying degrees.
I would say the more high-end communities are more hotel-like.
I mean there's not a lot of Archstone logos everywhere.
But then again some buildings have pretty significant Archstone logos and what have you that we're currently having our marketing folks go property-by-property assess what we need to do and then we will make decisions over the course of next year and then most likely execute into 2013 or 2014.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay that's helpful.
And then second just a few quick guidance things.
Does the guidance for the year does that reflect the accounting treatment for the Archstone acquisition? As best -- it's Mark Parrell.
As best as we can determine it.
And I make that answer for this reason.
Because the accounting rules require us to book the acquisition at fair value.
And because fair value includes our stock price the $2 billion or so of stock that we gave to Lehman will be repriced on the closing day and issued to them on that day.
And so that will have a big impact on how all the assets and all the rest of the things look.
And on certain fair value adjustments we make to like things like retail leases I'll tell you at the margin it doesn't matter much and we gave it our best guess.
But there could be a little bit of noise there as well.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But as far as the debt coming over and what have you I mean all that basically the numbers are pretty good.
There may be some tweaks it sounds like.
And then just finally on that front what is the impact to Archstone on a same-store perspective if you have your guidance the 4.5% to 6% Archstone you expect to do better than that worse than that on par? This is David Santee.
I mean basically when we're head-to-head block-to-block say Manhattan say D.C.
I mean we would expect those properties to perform very similar identical to our own properties.
Again we've had a long-term relationship with Archstone.
We know what their previous performance has been.
It hasn't been too dissimilar from our own.
So on the revenue side we would expect to see similar performance compared to similar geographically located assets.
And on the expense side Alex and some other things it's just not comparable because the companies have different capitalization policies and things like that.
And they're just really -- and plus when the acquisition occurs real estate taxes will be repriced and things will occur.
So a same-store kind of expense comparison won't really make any sense.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Bragg with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> On G&amp;A is $14 million a quarter an appropriate run rate going forward? Or is this outlook for 2013 inflated temporarily as you work through this integration of Archstone? Yes.
No that's not -- it's Mark Parrell.
That's not a correct sort of -- I mean the guidance number that we put out there of $55 million to $58 million it is going to be front-end loaded because of some accounting conventions that we use mostly related to compensation-related grants.
So you can spread it evenly.
But I'll tell you that the number will start up higher and will end up so call it in the first quarter maybe $16 million.
And by the end of the fourth quarter it will end up something like $10 million.
So it will go down quarter-by-quarter over time and we think end up right in the middle of that range.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
That makes sense.
And then on a related note Mark.
The property management cost as a percent of revenue I think over time you've been successfully pushing this down to now below 4%.
Once you have the dispositions executed on and Archstone integrated where does that ultimately settle out? Yes.
I think that goes -- and this is again there is some variability here.
So that probably goes from about 3.75% to 3%.
And some of that has to do with just revenues going up so much.
But property management costs in total are very well in check as David Santee has said.
They will go up in total this year.
So property management costs in their totality not the same store but in totality will go up somewhat this year.
But as a percentage of revenue because revenue is growing so well it will go down in approximate sort of call it 3.5%.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And the last question is on development.
Last quarter on that call you suggested near-term start potential of about $450 million and then an additional potential $700 million of starts in 2013.
Now you're talking about $500 million of potential starts in 2013.
So is this pullback on development solely due to the focus on Archstone? Or are you finding development to be less compelling right now? No.
I would -- certainly it'd be the former Dave.
We slowed down as I said in my prepared remarks we had development deals on our inventory that could have started in 2012 which we've postponed unwilling to make the capital commitment that capital obligation with all of the execution risk we were looking at as part of the Archstone transaction.
And so we just sort of postponed that but we continue to think that development makes a lot of sense for us.
As I said in the past I don't think you'll see us ramp development up as a percentage of our balance sheet as some of our peers.
But I think you can count on us as a $500 million to $700 million or so annual starts on an average basis.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Wolfe with Citibank.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the great demand I think that's how you put it in your press release last night for the assets and how this has allowed you to sell assets a little bit earlier than you thought.
Just looking beyond the Goldman-Greystar deal can you talk a little bit about the buyer pool you're seeing for your assets and how this might compare to what you were seeing last year? Well I guess on a one-off basis or small portfolio basis I don't think it's changed at all.
It's a lot of local and regional people many of whom have got access to institutional money to do smaller transactions.
The one thing that did change as a result of selling so much property was we had a lot of big buyers come to us people that might not be interested in a $50 million one-off deal but be interested in deals of size.
So that did open up the buyer pool somewhat for us and that did lead us to doing the Greystar transaction.
But most of the deals are being done on a onesie-twosie kind of basis to the same kind of local and regional fellows that might have been buying these assets back in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And I guess these bigger buyers that you refer to I mean these are institutional buyers that are always active? Are they sort of I guess new buyers who are looking to put new money to work? Is there a way to sort of qualify those types of buyers? Well I guess these are kind of more financial buyers that are looking for almost any kind of real estate in size or they need to play in size which has made it difficult for them to play in the multi-space.
And obviously we're not selling as much as we did.
They came knocking on our door.
We were reluctant frankly to do a big deal because we did not want to get ourselves in a position where we had a lot of eggs in one basket.
But we had enough going away from Greystar that we were comfortable to do this transaction with them and they were willing to do it in a structure that gave us confidence that they would be there at closing and they have $150 million up at risk.
So but again there's -- these are financial buyers who needed transactions of size and this was an opportunity for them to get into multi because many of them are short multi today.
Research Division</strong> Right understood.
And then just in terms of the pricing you said that the pricing was in line with your original expectations.
It sounds like from commentary from you and your peers cap rates really haven't moved up all that much which I guess is a little surprising because growth has slowed.
So I'm wondering kind of why you think that's been the case that your cap rates have stayed somewhat stable even as growth has decelerated a little bit.
Obviously it's still very very strong but it has slowed as you mentioned in your remarks.
Well look these are still huge spreads to underlying treasuries.
And on a spread to financing cost it's the best arbitrage even at these rates that people have seen in their careers.
So you can finance it in the mid to low 3s today.
So even at this rates these continue to be very good leverage returns.
And frankly there's a shortage of product and I think there's a competitive bid for product.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And but the financing on the private side I mean have you seen that change at all? I mean as you've gotten more aggressive in terms of leverage or it's just been -- is it just literally just the dearth of supply out there of quality assets that's making people chase a little bit? Well I'm not sure I could comment.
It's Parrell and all the buyer motivations.
But on the debt side I mean Fannie just announced a record year at $33 billion or so of -- and I understand that Freddie has done something pretty close to that number.
So I think the unsecured market is just -- the GSE market is just very good.
And when you can borrow for 10 years in the low to mid-3s maybe not have many amortization for a couple of years the cash-on-cash return when you're buying product from us is 6.
It just makes a ton of sense and I think it's compelling in a world starved of yield.
So I would say to me none of this is really all that surprising.
Fannie's rates haven't changed their advanced rates.
They've just tightened a few things but not materially.
And so Fannie and Freddie continue to be very good sources of capital for our buyers and almost all our buyers are utilizing GSE debt at this point.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob Stevenson with Macquarie.
Mark in your same-store expense growth of 2.5% to 3.5% can you talk about what the underlying sort of major bucket there are? I mean it seems kind of low given less than 25% or so of your assets are in California and sort of limited from a property tax standpoint by Prop 13.
Just what you guys are doing to control expenses around the other buckets? Sure.
Well I think David Santee is going to give some specific color.
But I can talk about a couple of the line items.
I mean he's talked a lot about real estate taxes and that is certainly the negative.
That's the item that's going up the most.
In general schematically everything else is kind of well under control.
And then you've got insurance which is a small line item for us about 3% of our expenses.
That's going to go up again.
And our budget this year is 12% to 13% increase in that line item driven by probably a 15% or so increase in our property insurance premiums which renew every year in March.
So I'll let David Santee give you some commentary.
But we don't -- again we didn't see a difference in expense results between I'll call it current same store of a hundred and some thousand units and new same store of 80 000 units the year-end same store of 80 000.
So David do you want to? Yes.
Well as far as real estate taxes go on the original same-store set of 100 000 units we were anticipating 6.5% growth and really almost half of that comes from California as well as our 421a abatement or burn-offs in New York City.
Everything else is very small percentages so that's kind of the key driver on real estate taxes.
And then when you look at the 3 groups when you take real estate taxes payroll and utilities which is 70% -- or 68% that group is growing at 4.2%.
And then everything else -- so as an example selling all of our garden communities in Phoenix and Jacksonville and Atlanta I mean there's pickup in grounds expense.
But it's just they're small numbers so I think we're very comfortable with our expense range.
And really just like 2012 real estate taxes is the key driver.
How much is real estate taxes as a percent of the operating expenses? If the charge is 3% what is taxes? In the current same-store set the full 107 000 it's 30%.
In the year-end same-store of 80 000 units it moves up to 33%.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
And then David what's been the conversations that you guys have had with Lehman about the holding period for their shares? And has the board discussed putting in place stock repurchase plan or some other mechanism to make sure that if they decide to exit in a sort of relatively quick fashion there's not a material disruption to your stock price? Well I guess I'll start by saying first things first Rob.
We've got an awful lot of work to do to get to the closing table and actually acquire Archstone and issue that stock.
I would tell you that the registration rights agreements were among the most heavily negotiated parts of the entire transaction.
And I can tell you that shortly after closing we will take the time to sit with them and make sure that we have an open dialogue with them about doing what we can do to help them meet their goals and have it not be disruptive process.
The only thing I just ask you to sort of bear in mind is that they are not in any hurry.
They've got quite a long -- quite a bit of runway in which to complete the liquidation of the Lehman estate.
If -- and I feel if Archstone truly was an option for them they would have been looking at an awful long time to monetize their interest.
So these are very smart people.
I think they're very patient people.
They're charged to maximize the returns to the creditors and I don't think they will have done all they've done here to do anything hasty.
I think it will be a very thoughtful process one that I know that we'll be engaged in with them and try to help them do that in the least disruptive manner as possible.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> David just a follow-up on that point with respect to the registration rights.
Is there any ability to sell the shares in the open market versus a block trade or an overnight offering? There is an ability to both dribble the shares out in what amount to a reverse ATM transaction.
There is also the ability to do block trades that Lehman can do.
They can use executives to go on road shows.
They have a fair amount of flexibility.
And understand I mean that flexibility inerts to our benefit.
I mean we'd like them to get out of the stock in an orderly fashion.
And as David said we intend to facilitate that exit to the best of our ability.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the FFO front can you clarify specifically what is in the guidance with respect to the mark to market on the Archstone debt? Is this -- we're coming up with a number is it $0.11 a share give or take? So let me just direct you to Page 27.
So this is the Archstone interest expense and just total interest expense.
So we give you detail both again on Page 27 of interest expense inclusive of course in both cases of Archstone but also as the capitalized -- or excuse me the mark to market in it.
So you can see 2 different numbers.
At the top it's kind of got a $477 million to $498 million range.
And then in the footnote $518 million to $541 million range.
So the effect of the mark is give or take $41 million $42 million.
You asked about what the interest expense is for Archstone.
It's about $0.11 call it $0.12-ish for the mark -- I'm sorry the mark is about $0.11 or $0.12-ish.
And the total amount of Archstone interest expense for the year -- let me see if I can find it for you here balance effect.
Yes that's about $0.19 a share is our calculation.
Remember we have in our guidance the probability of repaying some of that Archstone secured debt in the second quarter.
If you remember that comment I made about repaying $800 million.
So that -- that's a second quarter event give or take for us.
So I have $0.19 of Archstone interest using the mark to market in our guidance rate now.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Finally David on Avalon's call they used the term transition transitional year in some of their markets to describe 2013 with better time potentially heading '14 '15.
At the risk of asking you to comment on what a competitor said I'm just curious what you thought of that kind of comment because your numbers wouldn't suggest necessarily that this is any kind of a transition year.
Well I've not -- in preparation for our own I've not spent a lot of time reviewing or reading anything what our peers or competitors have said.
I guess I'd suggest to you that depending on who you speak to there's an expectation of better job growth and better household formation down the road.
And based upon what we see as new supply in 2013 2014 2015 I think the fundamental if those household formation expectations and if those job growth expectations hold true you'd see better supply-demand fundamentals in future years.
Now who knows what those numbers will be.
I can tell you that estimates for 2011 will roll back and for 2012 will roll back.
So one never knows.
But based upon what we see as supply in '14 and '15 and what other people say about job growth and household formations you do see if you use those numbers a better supply and demand picture.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Rosivach with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Matt Rand on the line with Andrew.
Two questions for you.
First AvalonBay gave a sense that there was $0.15 of dilution in their 2013 guidance as a result of the common stock offering held before the Archstone deal close.
Can you say what the comparable number would be for you guys? Yes.
I would say that number would be give or take $0.05.
The fact that we have -- we're carrying around $1.1 billion $1.2 billion of cash and the related shares for January and February not really using the money till the end of the year not giving the Archstone NOI till the end of February has that general impact on us.
But remember our offering was smaller than theirs by half.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Got you.
Okay.
And then the second piece is you gave the guidance of how much doing all of these asset sales is going to dilute calendar '13.
What's the run rate once it's all in place? So what would be say your fourth quarter level of dilution from these sales? By the time you get to the fourth quarter you've got pretty well all the dilution you can have right? Because there's only -- in our current guidance all but say $200 million to $250 million of the sales that we're projecting will have occurred.
So when you get to the fourth quarter there isn't between the third and the fourth quarter if that's your question much in the way of incremental dilution.
In fact looking at the numbers specifically it really -- there isn't much between those 2 quarters because again you've not sold a great deal of incremental product between those quarters.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Got you.
So I guess said a little bit differently what would be kind of a run rate almost like a '14 dilution number relative to the calendar '13 that's in your guidance? '14 dilution number.
So the question is the remaining dilution in '14 that is not recognized in '13? Research Division</strong> Exactly yes.
Okay.
I'm not sure I have an exact number but we'd say maybe give or take on the order of $70 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Truxillo with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned leaving the $750 million delayed draw term loan out until the end of 2013.
But that seems like a pretty cheap cost of capital even in today's environment.
Why not just plan to leave that out until '15 or '16 with a 1 year extension? And then secondly you mentioned the $950 million of Archstone maturities in '14 or '15 I missed which one it was and $1 billion in '17.
And that you'd look to refinance that.
Can you talk about prepayment penalties associated with that and maybe what those rates are to see if it would make sense to do so? Sure.
You are breaking up just a bit.
But the first question on the term loan I did not mean to imply that we will definitely pay it off at the end of 2013.
In fact that isn't the plan currently.
It is cheap money.
We don't have that much floating rate debt on the balance sheet in general.
And so as opposed to doing some long-dated swap it seemed to us that using this delayed draw term loan and having a little bit on the revolver that's this big was a thoughtful way to balance our fix-to-float mix.
On the Archstone '14 as I recall that interest rate and I don't have that rate in front of me being give or take 6%.
When we affect it by the mark to market on that debt premium it will be more in the 3s.
So there is that accounting difference.
The 2014 Archstone debt becomes due in November 2014 prepayable at par in May of '14.
Probably not a lot of reason to run out in deal with that by prepaying it.
The prepayment penalty is very substantial.
Again I can't give you an exact number offhand but I'm guessing you can do that calculation pretty readily.
2017 that debt is the same structure prepayable at par in May of '17 maturing finally in November of '17.
That debt is I think a little over 6% maybe 6.5% as a coupon rate.
We have the right to extend some of that debt with the lender and that is one thing we're considering doing.
We could term it out in the unsecured market.
I think the unsecured market and you'd know it at least as well as I is very open to companies like EQR in the low 3% range for 10-year money.
We would think about doing preferreds as well and we would consider taking advantage of this extension option with the secured lenders.
So all of those are kind of on the table to deal with the '17s.
I'm not particularly worried about the '14s.
We'll just deal with those as they come.
But it'd probably be a good idea to add some duration to those '17s but we're in no rush to do so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you talked about leaving some floating rate out there.
How do you feel about your secured debt mix right now given what you're assuming from Archstone? Does that have any -- is that an impact on what you decide to do with this 1.9? Yes great question.
Absolutely.
I mean the implication is that the unencumbered pool is smaller because of Archstone.
That's absolutely true.
That's mostly true because every Archstone asset we're acquiring has secured debt on it.
And all the assets we're selling have no secured debt on it.
So there is a little bit of a pinch point in 2013.
That said I still expect total unencumbered NOI to be 55%  of -- 55% of our total NOI will be unencumbered in 2013 at the end and that number will just improve.
All things being equal we probably would like to do a little more unsecured debt and have that number go up.
But we're going to just -- we have enough debt to deal with here where I think we could access the unsecured market.
We could term some out in the secured market and it still would leave us with some great numbers.
Our debt yield on the unsecured side is 17%.
So unencumbered NOI divided by kind of a cap rate right divided by the whole unsecured debt that's got to be one of the best numbers out there.
I mean this unencumbered NOI is approaching $900 million in its totality.
It's a very very strong company on the credit side.
Our next question comes from the line of Jana Galan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So you've been a very active capital recycler and once Archstone and your disposition is closed you'll kind of have the target portfolio that you've been working toward.
And I was curious if this will change your focus to do more redevelopments.
And if maybe you could talk about what the potential is for enhancement CapEx in your portfolio and in the Archstone portfolio? Well just to give you some additional disclosure on CapEx.
So first of all just to comment on the Archstone CapEx our view and we're not of course yet in the properties as the owner is that these properties were pretty well maintained.
We're not seeing a great deal of deferred capital in the Archstone system.
We are saying potentially and we're still diligence-ing this some opportunities on the rehab side.
And there'll be more detail about that later in the year and I'm not in a position to kind of give you much there.
But certainly there was probably less capital to spend on rehab than maybe there is at EQR and we're going to take a hard look at that.
We've revised our CapEx guidance on Page 24.
You can see that.
We now expect to spend about $1 500 per same-store unit.
These are EQR 80 000 units versus $1 200 which is about what we spent or $1 225 in 2012.
So our remaining 80 000 units have a lot more rent per month.
So our average rents per month are going to go from $1 700 now with 100 000 units to about $1 900 with 80 000 units.
You're going to see an increase in CapEx consistent with additional building improvement-type costs that you have in high rises which is a lot of what we'll own when you get down to that 80 000 units.
So your question on Archstone just to sum it up is we feel very good about where we stand on the capital side with Archstone.
We see some opportunity there.
But again we need to get into the properties and really run them for a little while to be more definitive on that.
And just in terms Jana of capital recycling we will always be a capital recycler.
We will always be trying to sell slower-growth properties and reinvest that capital in higher-growth assets.
We may not be doing it at the same run rate that you've seen us go run at over the last 6 to 8 years as we've changed the complexity of our portfolio.
But you also won't see that be done at the cap rate spread that we experienced over those half a dozen or 8 years or so.
We'll be selling assets in core markets to buy assets in core markets which means the dilutive impact of that -- the initial dilutive impact of that capital recycling will be significantly less than what it's been over the past few years.
So yes we'll always going to be looking at our assets reviewing our portfolio ridding ourselves of slower-growth assets and try to reallocate that capital in the deals that we think will provide us a better long-term return.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew McCulloch with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked but just one follow-up for Mark.
As you guys continue to sell assets and refortify your balance sheet do you see a A credit rating as a possibility come '14? I guess again it's sort of a first things first.
Right now to do that I think we would need to complete the disposition program as we plan.
We need to be very -- kind of get the whole integration done and over.
I guess what I would say mostly is what's the advantage of that? I'm not sure that we would get much of a savings in terms of debt costs to make a promise to our fixed income investors and the rating agencies and tie up our equity investors with a much lower leverage ratio than we have already.
so I guess I just don't know that I think the risk reward there is all that beneficial.
But I think over time naturally this portfolio gravitates to that sort of rating.
It's just whether as a management team that's the right thing to do as a trade-off because it does come with obligations that relates to leverage that I'm just not sure we want to undertake.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
David Neithercut if you have known -- you've seen deceleration in your same-store performance this year.
If you knew that say '15 would be flat or negative in terms of same-store growth would you still have pulled the trigger on this with a long-term mindset? Or would that have held you up? Well I guess I'll answer your question just by saying Rich that we think that over the long term trading out of the assets that we're trading out of to buy the Archstone portfolio is a terrific long-term opportunity.
And I guess regardless of what we thought 2015 might bring or might not bring just looking at the -- what we thought we could sell our current portfolio at what we could buy the Archstone portfolio at we thought that was a great trade.
And again maybe there'll be bumps in the road in sort of later years but we think that we'll look back on this in 2020 and think it was absolutely perfect spot-on strategically important thing for us to do.
Okay fair enough.
You mentioned always kind of constantly looking at the portfolio and -- portfolio management type of activity on an ongoing basis.
Do you think that there'll be a larger percentage of kind of dispositions out of the Archstone portfolio than the EQR portfolio? Or do you think it will be kind of equivalent? Well I think at least for the foreseeable future you'll see more EQR assets.
The Archstone...
I mean after -- I should say after the $3 billion -- $4 billion or so that you're doing now but once you're kind of in a steady state.
Well as I say we're still going to have exposure in Inland Empire.
We'll have some exposure in Orlando.
We'll still have some exposure in again what we call our non-Boston New England portfolio which for those of you who've been around a while means growth.
And so I think you'll probably see more sales of EQR assets in the foreseeable future than of Archstone assets.
Okay.
Interesting.
Why do you think -- maybe a question for Mark or someone else why do you think your acquisition costs were $26 million and AvalonBay's were $123 million? Obviously there's -- they're too different -- they must be 2 different numbers but maybe you can help me with that.
Well they are just estimates.
We give a little bit of a break out.
I thought when I looked that I thought they were broadly consistent.
I mean clearly we're doing the same things here.
Most of these costs are terminations and severance costs.
There's also some transfer taxes that there's been developments on the positive side and that's a very large number in between our 2 earnings calls.
And that also I think probably influences that estimate.
So I would say that's the answer.
Okay.
And as long as I got you Mark you mentioned 7x debt to EBITDA as a year-end target.
What will that number be right when you close Archstone? I'm trying to get a sense of how significant of a change that will be.
I'm going to have to do this a little off of memory because I don't have that here.
But I think it will be probably in the order of 7.3x to 7.4x.
Okay.
Okay.
And I guess on the issue of Normalized FFO definition you're including the mark to market in that number? We are.
So our guidance does benefit from that mark correct.
Okay.
Interesting.
And then I guess last question to David not to forget about you.
Very early on in the conference call you said your higher-quality residents coming in replacing those that are leaving that got set up with the big rent increases that they've been enduring.
Why do you think they're higher-quality residents? Well they can afford the higher rent.
Why is that? Are they more wealthy than the people leaving? One would assume.
I mean it's really -- probably the -- if you want to take it to the extremes go to San Francisco and Boston.
I mean that -- those are the 2 highest turnover markets.
Boston saw 900 basis point increase in turnover last year.
Reason for move-out due to rents being too expensive for most of last -- well for all of last year and still through this year is increased to expenses.
So 30% of move-outs in San Francisco were too expensive.
So one can only assume that if someone moves out that can't afford to pay $2 000 and someone moves in and can pay $2 000 that's probably a more healthy resident.
Yes.
And as David said we've seen our FICO scores continue to improve.
Our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
Could you talk a little bit about Archstone integration and what ultimately the plan would be to make sure you kind of get the best of both worlds in regards to what you like at Archstone and what you want to kind of continue to keep at EQR? So this is David Santee.
I will tell you that this has been a very exciting exercise.
And again we've had a long-term relationship with Archstone going back to our partnership with LRO.
So I wouldn't say that there's anything surprising.
I think we've known our philosophical differences from an operating perspective.
I think that a they have some great ideas.
I think that we see things that we're well ahead of them on from a technology perspective.
I think we will -- as I talked to the board early in December I mean we're -- our portfolio is improving.
Our portfolio is different than it was 5 years ago 10 years ago and certainly very different than 20 years ago.
And our thinking has to continue to evolve.
And I think that's what we're doing is we're evolving as our portfolio evolves.
There are definitely synergies.
There are definitely immediate benefits that we'll accrue to our same-store portfolio more from just how we expense items.
But more importantly as an example giving us high concentration in D.C.
just gives us more bargaining power on a lot of goods and services.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then again post Archstone with the increased exposure in D.C.
and some of the supply issues going on in the D.C.
market can you kind of talk about how you're thinking about that? And if there's any possibility of you guys reducing your to exposure to D.C.
as part of your future asset sales? Well I will say that we've current -- of the properties that we have either sold or have under contract since the announcement of Archstone about 3 000 units are coming out of Washington D.C.
But just in terms in general how we're seeing the D.C.
market with new supply and all why don't you comment on that Dave? Yes.
So relative to Archstone I think that's a very favorable picture from the D.C.
Downtown D.C.
perspective.
We've plotted all of our communities all the Archstone communities all the new construction on one of our math applications.
And the great thing about D.C.
is all of the Archstone assets are pretty much in a straight line Northwest straight out Mass Avenue and Connecticut Avenue.
There's virtually 1 development that has just broken ground that's remotely close to those properties.
Now when you go down to -- when you get to NoMa you can stand on the roof deck of 425 Mass and scan the horizon and see 15 cranes which is primarily NoMa.
It's not all apartments but certainly most of the apartments and then north up U Street.
So for the most part I think D.C.
really is really suffering from the fog of the uncertainty of the fiscal cliff.
And I think most of the damage that -- I think the fog has created more damage than actually the outcome of going over the fiscal cliff.
Does that answer your question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
That's a good context.
I'm showing no further questions in the queue at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back to management for any final remarks.
Terrific.
Thank you all very much for your time today.
We look forward to seeing many of our investors down in Florida in early March.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Equity Residential First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Wednesday May 1 2013.
I would now like to turn the call over to Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's first quarter 2013 results.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; David Santee our Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn it over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for our call today.
As reported in our earnings release last night the first quarter of 2013 was a very busy very exciting and certainly a historic period for Equity Residential.
On February 27 along with our partners at AvalonBay we closed on the $16 billion acquisition of Archstone.
Equity Residential's $9 billion share of this purchase included 22 000 existing apartment units 6 assets in various stages of development or lease-up and 14 undeveloped land parcels.
Within minutes of the closing 100% of the Archstone assets were live on our website equityapartments.com and Archstone's website was directing all traffic from the assets we acquired to equityapartments.com.
Within hours of closing every acquired property was fully operational on our platform and normal activity was taking place such as rent payments service requests lease renewals new leases e-leads et cetera.
The following morning our LRO pricing system provided pricing for every newly-acquired unit.
We've received nearly 3 000 online rental payments totaling nearly $5 million.
We've received 5 600 direct debit payments totaling $13 million and 250 service requests and had certainly achieved our goal of immediate and seamless resident and prospect transfer.
In addition during the quarter we restructured $2.9 billion of Archstone's secured debt.
We arranged $3.25 billion of new unsecured credit facilities with our bank group.
We sold $3 billion of noncore assets and redeployed much of those proceeds in what we have been told is one of the single largest 1031 tax-deferred exchanges in history.
And we were happy to welcome 700 new professionals to the Equity Residential family.
And if that was not enough we also delivered same-store revenue growth in the first quarter 2013 of 5.1%.
We also delivered our 24th consecutive quarter of same-store expense growth of less than 3% and NOI growth for the quarter of 6.3% all which were very much in line with our expectations for the quarter.
Now I could go on and on for quite some time of how proud we all are of what's been accomplished this past quarter of the incredible effort and hard work of so many people across the enterprise including our new colleagues that have joined the Equity team from Archstone of how pleased we are to have completed the total transformation of our portfolio several years ahead of plan and of how excited we are now to own a portfolio of some of the finest assets in gateway cities across the country that should deliver the highest risk-adjusted returns over the long term.
We've got a lot of ground to cover today.
So before I turn the call over to David Santee our newly-appointed Chief Operating Officer I want to just take a minute to thank the people of Equity Residential those of you who have been with us for a while those that have recently joined us and those who have recently departed -- for all that you've done over the last year and the last quarter to make this all happen.
Your commitment your dedication your spirit and your love for what you do made all this possible.
And it's an honor to be your CEO and to work with you all each and every day.
So I'm now very happy to turn the call over to David who will share with you what we're seeing on the ground across our markets today.
Thank you David.
Since we last spoke our business has performed exactly as expected on both revenue and expense during the most active quarter in our history.
For the quarter same-store revenue for 90 350 apartments was 5.1% driven by continued strength in apartment fundamentals and our execution around the 4 key revenue drivers which are physical occupancy resident turnover base rental rates on new leases and renewal pricing.
Now unlike Q1 of last year we entered 2013 from a position of greater strength with occupancy averaging a solid 95% versus 94.7% in Q1 of last year.
Improved sales metrics for the quarter which are Internet leads foot traffic and applications were all up producing an increase in move-ins of 3% year-over-year giving us continued confidence with our renewal program that I'll discuss in a moment.
Resident turnover quarter-over-quarter on the surface increased 20 basis points.
However looking behind the curtain on this metric we saw a 14% increase in same-community apartment transfers as residents trade both up and down to accommodate changing life situations and continue to find ways to adapt to affordability concerns.
Even though our turnover metric is up we were able to retain more residents for the quarter as the increased same-property transfers more than accounted for the 20 basis points increase in turnover.
And just to add additional color home buying inched up for the quarter increasing 40 basis points from 11.7% of move-outs to 12.1% of move-outs.
But in absolute terms it was only a net increase of 51 more home buyers over 2012.
Most important was the continued decline in move-outs due to rent increase that we saw begin in early Q4 and fell from 15.1% for Q1 of 2012 to 13.3% in Q1 of this year.
As we have cycled through the 2 or 3 years of double-digit rent increases in many of our core markets our new residents now find high single-digit renewal increases more palatable.
As expected base rent pricing for the quarter followed the traditional seasonal pattern of moderation.
However our strong occupancy and low exposure that we see today sets the stage for base rents to move slightly above 4% as demand begins to accelerate.
And last but certainly not least our renewals.
For the quarter we achieved a 5.7% average renewal increase slightly above our expectations.
Looking forward we have quoted renewal increases for May June and July in excess of 7% and are currently achieving a 5.3% for May 5.1% for June and 5.2% for July.
Residents with smaller increases typically sign immediately and as a result the monthly achieved numbers have historically improved as we move into the month of expiration.
All in all we are right where we expected to be.
San Francisco Denver and Seattle continue to be our top 3 markets.
And to date we have seen little direct impact from the new supply in Seattle or North San Jose.
Washington D.C.
continues to meet our expectations with solid occupancy and moderating rent growth in some submarkets.
The overall fear of sequestration and its unknown impact on the D.C.
economy in addition to the new supply has caused many multifamily operators as expected to hunker down and buy occupancy putting a damper on any potential near-term pricing power.
It's important to note however that all but one of our same-store D.C.
assets are still experiencing positive revenue growth as of May.
Los Angeles appears to have finally realized sustainable traction with outsized growth in the urban core and more moderate growth as you move north and east into the Inland Empire.
Orange County is on the same track of above-average growth with San Diego bringing up the rear with a 3.6% year-over-year revenue growth.
New York remains solid as continued economic diversification in areas of tech and new media from financial services coupled with little to no supply create a very robust demand for quality apartments.
On the expense side it's business as usual.
As David mentioned our 24th consecutive quarter of sub-3% expense growth is a testament to the transparency and power of our platform process and more importantly our people.
The 3 drivers of expense making up 68% of all expenses are real estate tax payroll and utilities and all are expected to meet our full year expectations.
However recent speculative run-ups in the natural gas market have pressured both gas expense and electric costs during the past couple of months.
Only recently we have seen them fall back to expected levels but they still meet our forecast.
Real estate taxes our largest expense is on target at 6.5%.
More importantly as we have exited many Southeast markets we have also reduced future volatility in our ability to forecast full year taxes.
Before the Archstone acquisition and dispositions 80% of all real estate tax dollars were unknown until the end of Q3.
Today that number is 40% adding a higher degree of predictability to overall expense growth.
All other account groupings are well within our expectations and we expect to see continued expense optimization in our same-store portfolio as a result of integrating the Archstone assets.
As for the integration everything is going extremely well.
As David mentioned many months and hours of planning paid off with a swift and seamless transition to our platform.
And equally rewarding was the feedback we received from our new residents but more importantly our new associates regarding the superior enterprise platform and process that our team has spent the last 7 years designing and building.
Our new associates continue to assimilate and remain focused on the key drivers of our business.
Occupancy as of today for the Archstone stabilized assets is a solid 96.1%.
Revenue is tracking in line with our same-store portfolio with an estimate of 5.3% revenue growth for the quarter and is slightly ahead of our original underwriting done almost a year ago.
Expenses to-date are substantially below our budget and far exceeding our expectations as we continue to embed our procurement tactic and spending philosophy in every aspect of the business.
We couldn't be more pleased with both the financial results and positive outlook from our new Archstone associates and look forward to continued success and exceptional results.
Great.
Thanks very much David.
Let me take a minute now to talk a little bit about the portfolio and what we sold during the quarter what we expect to sell over the remainder of the year and what we think we'll look like on the 1st of January 2014.
So as noted in the release last night during the quarter we sold more than 18 000 apartment units for nearly $3 billion at a weighted average cap rate of 6% and a price per unit of slightly more than $161 000.
These sales and volume were right on top of our original expectations when we were finalizing the Archstone deal late last year.
Now as we indicated when we announced the deal in late November the disposition of assets in exit markets as well as nonstrategic assets in core markets were extremely integral to the overall deal.
Because not only did the acquisition of 60% of Archstone give us access to a huge supply of assets that fit hand and glove with our existing portfolio but it also represented the opportunity to recycle capital out of the markets in assets that we had no desire to own for the longer term.
As we also discussed in our last call it was our original expectation November of last year that we would sell our properties more ratably over the current year but thanks to the work that had been done by our team in advance of the announcement and the continued strong demand by buyers to acquire these assets we were able to accelerate the disposition timeline and significantly reduced the execution risk of the Archstone acquisition though that would come at the cost of more FFO dilution for the year than originally expected.
In addition to the $3 billion of dispositions in the first quarter thus far in the second quarter we have already closed the sale of 8 additional assets for $374 million at a weighted average cap rate of 6%.
We currently expect to sell another $400 million to $500 million yet this quarter and plan on selling another $200 million in the second half of the year bringing the total amount of disposition activity of legacy EQR assets for the full year to $4 billion.
On Page 8 of last night's press release we show the changes in our portfolio between the end of last year and the end of the first quarter of this year.
And during which time we have increased the amount of our NOI coming from our core markets by 6 percentage points to 92% and have increased our average rental rate in those markets by 9.5% to $2 126 per unit.
You can also see that we reduced the number of units we own in Atlanta Phoenix and Orlando by nearly 1/2 and in Jacksonville by nearly 75%.
By the end of the year we expect to have 90% of our operating net income coming from the noted core markets to have exited Tacoma and Jacksonville completely and to have essentially completed our exit from both Phoenix and Atlanta but for a handful of joint venture assets that will be left behind that will require a bit more time and structure.
The disclosure of our development business in last night's earnings release shows $1.4 billion of active development currently underway.
That number increased during the quarter with the start of construction on our project at 170 Amsterdam on Manhattan's Upper West Side a terrific site that we tied up in early 2011 and where we will build 237 units on a long-term ground lease.
Our development activity also increased during the last quarter with the addition of 6 Archstone assets representing $400 million in total development costs.
Of these new additions from Archstone our current expectation is that only the Marina del Rey project is a long-term hold and we would expect to sell the others following lease-up and stabilization.
As part of the Archstone transaction we also acquired 14 new land sites.
Of these we will hold 6 for future development -- 1 land site in Washington D.C.
and 5 in San Francisco 4 of which are in San Francisco proper and 1 which is in the Mid-Peninsula.
We will likely sell the remaining 8 land sites -- 3 in Arizona 1 in San Diego 2 in South Florida and 2 in Maryland about 30 miles south of Washington D.C.
With the Archstone land sites that we intend to keep we now own a total of 17 land sites and control 2 others all in our core markets representing a pipeline of about 6 200 units in great locations in Washington D.C.
San Francisco Seattle and Southern California with a development cost of $2.5 billion.
In addition to the $130 million of projects already started this year we have the potential to begin construction yet this year on as much as another $1 billion of development.
We will address all potential development starts on a case-by-case basis with a close eye on appropriate sources of funding.
But at the present time we expect to begin another $500 million to $700 million of development bringing our total starts for the year to as much as $800 million adding great assets to our portfolio in key locations and continuing to create value for our shareholders through our development business.
So I'll now turn the call over to Mark Parrell.
Thank you David.
I want to take a few minutes this morning to review our Normalized FFO guidance for the second quarter.
I would also like to give you some color on our recent capital markets activity and discuss how we expect our balance sheet credit metrics and liquidity to look at year end after the integration of the Archstone assets and the disposition of $4 billion of assets from our portfolio.
I will also summarize some changes we made this quarter to our income statement and press release supplement to improve transparency and add clarity regarding the Archstone-related transaction costs that we are incurring and the current and future configuration of our portfolio.
So let's talk about Normalized FFO a bit.
This quarter we had a pretty large difference between FFO as defined by NAREIT and Normalized FFO and we also had substantially lower NAREIT-defined FFO in the first quarter than we had expected in our February guidance.
We do show you on Page 24 of the release a chart that shows the main adjustment items.
I want to quickly summarize the 3 main drivers.
First there were $71 million of prepayment penalties incurred in the first quarter and these were incurred about one quarter earlier than expected and they were responsible for the lower NAREIT FFO in the first quarter.
We also had $46 million of merger costs which were disclosed on the loss from investments in unconsolidated entities due to merger expenses line item a very catchy name and I'm going to talk about that line in a moment and give you some more color.
And that's just primarily our share of the Archstone employee severance costs.
We also had $19 million of merger costs which we disclose on the new merger expenses line which I'll also explain in a moment and these were mostly investment banking legal and accounting fees.
Both of these types of merger costs were included in our NAREIT-defined FFO guidance number for the first quarter and both were about what we had expected.
For the second quarter of 2013 we have provided a Normalized FFO guidance range of $0.67 per share to $0.71 per share.
The press release contained a description of the items that bridge the difference between our first quarter 2013 Normalized FFO of $0.64 per share and the midpoint of our second quarter 2013 range.
Now on to the capital markets side of the house.
Eliminating the funding risk from the Archstone transaction as quickly and efficiently as possible has been a major priority for us.
As David Neithercut just described we are well along to selling $4 billion in non-core EQR assets in addition to the over $500 million in Archstone assets that were sold before we closed on the Archstone acquisition.
This success also allowed us to more quickly address 2 other important balance sheet goals: reducing the large amount of secured debt that we have post-Archstone; and reducing the elevated level of 2017 maturities.
I'm happy to report that we have had great progress on both these fronts.
At the close of the Archstone acquisition we assumed about $2.9 billion in secured debt.
This was down from our expectation at the time of the February earnings call because we thought we would assume a $500 million Archstone secured debt pool that matured in 2017 at acquisition and then repay it in April 2013.
Because of our accelerated dispositions we were able to repay that pool in the first quarter at the time of the Archstone closing.
In the first quarter we also took another step to address the elevated secured debt in 2017 debt maturity levels caused by Archstone.
We decided to prepay $543 million secured debt pool that matures in 2017 and was originated by EQR several years ago.
This action both improved our maturity schedule by lowering our 2017 maturity tower and reduced the elevated level of our secured debt.
As a result we incurred prepayment penalties in the first quarter which our February guidance anticipated would be incurred in the second quarter.
Also in April we accessed the unsecured bond market raising $500 million in a massively-oversubscribed unsecured notes offering.
These notes mature in 2023 and have a coupon of 3% and an all-in effective rate of 4% including the impact of certain fees and the termination of our interest rate hedges that related to that debt.
We are very pleased with the strong demand for our paper.
We continue to think it is wise to match the long duration of our expected ownership period of the Archstone assets with a set of liabilities that have a similarly-long duration.
We are studying whether to extend the maturity of a portion of the $1.2 billion in Archstone debt that matures in 2017 that we assumed.
By June 2013 we must decide whether to take advantage of a favorable extension option offered to us by the secured lender.
However lately secured debt spreads have widened considerably while unsecured rates have declined.
This secured debt spread widening offsets a fair amount of the benefit of the favorable extension option.
We will be thoughtful in balancing the advantages and disadvantages of exercising this option against using cash on hand to retire some of this debt without refinancing it or possibly leaving 2017 maturities alone for now.
All of these actions on the capital market side combined with our dispositions leave us pleased with what our balance sheet debt maturity schedule and liquidity will look like at the end of 2013.
Measured at year-end 2013 we would expect to cover our fixed charges at about 2.6x to have a debt-to-undepreciated book value of assets ratio of about 40% and to have a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of slightly over 7.0x.
At year end we expect our $2.5 billion revolving line of credit to be undrawn the $750 million term loan to be fully outstanding and have approximately $500 million of cash on the balance sheet.
Our current guidance assumes development spending in 2013 of only about $500 million which has been factored into all the metrics I just discussed.
And I do want to point out that $500 million includes the acceleration that David Neithercut referred to in our pipeline.
Most of that additional spending on those starts will occur in 2014 and '15.
As David also mentioned besides accelerating the -- we don't see this as having any real impact on our ratios or funding in future years given the relatively small percentage of our asset base that's currently tied up in our development business along with our ability to use free cash flow and asset sales in 2014 and thereafter to generate $500 million or more of investable capital.
Now just a couple of changes on the accounting and disclosure side I want to go over.
First on Page 8 of the release we have expanded our portfolio summary to show the portfolio at both December 31 2012 and in March 31 2013.
We have a lot of transaction activity going on and we thought this might be helpful to show you the progress of our portfolio transformation and help you track our dispositions.
We combined the Maryland and Northern Virginia D.C.
submarkets that we previously disclosed separately into the Washington D.C.
market and we removed the Tacoma submarket which we'll be exiting shortly from our Seattle market.
Second we wanted to show as clearly as possible the transaction costs we incurred and expect to incur related to the Archstone transaction.
To that end we added 2 lines to our income statement: merger expenses; and the loss from investments in unconsolidated entities due to merger expenses lines.
The merger expenses lines are costs we incurred directly here at Equity Residential in acquiring Archstone and those include investment banking legal and accounting costs.
Merger expenses in the first quarter totaled $19 million and we do not expect this line item to have much activity during the remainder of 2013.
The new loss from investments in unconsolidated entities due to merger expenses line also contains Archstone-related costs but these costs were incurred by the joint ventures that we created with AvalonBay to assume employment-related expenses like severance and to pay the salaries for the remaining Archstone employees that are helping us with the wind-down process.
These JVs also hold disposition assets like Germany and they assume certain preferred stock interests that third parties hold in Archstone subsidiaries.
So on this line we will pick up our 60% proportional share of all our costs from those things.
We reported Archstone-related acquisition cost on this line of $46 million almost all of which was severance-related in the quarter.
We expect to incur about another $11 million in these costs in 2013 for a total Equity Residential 2013 cost here of $57 million.
I wish I could have combined this line with the merger expenses line but the rules do not allow us to do so.
On Page 26 of the release we give specific guidance on both these line items.
Neither merger expenses nor losses from investments in unconsolidated entities due to merger expenses impact our Normalized FFO numbers.
I'm also pleased to report that at this point we believe that we will incur materially less in Archstone transaction costs than the $180 million that we estimated at the time of the equity raise back in November 2012.
We now expect to incur about $100 million in transaction costs mostly because we have avoided substantially all of the transfer taxes and most of the tax protection costs that we thought we would incur.
Finally we have changed our prepayment guidance on Page 26 so it equals the prepayment penalties we have incurred so far this year.
This along with some expected land sales also caused us to increase the midpoint of our NAREIT-defined FFO range by $0.11 for the year.
Both land sales and prepayment penalties do not impact our Normalized FFO numbers.
As I previously mentioned we are currently reviewing our debt restructuring options for the remainder of the year and we will update these numbers as part of our second quarter earnings call in July.
Now I'm going to turn the call back over to David Neithercut.
All right.
Thank you Mark.
So just in closing let me note that last weekend the lockup expired on the stock that we'd issued Lehman as currency for our share of the Archstone purchase and the 34.5 million shares held by Lehman represent about 9.2% of our total shares in units currently outstanding.
I've been asked a lot of questions about Lehman's intention with respect to these shares.
And while I wish I had all the answers for the investment community on this particular matter I'm sorry but I just don't.
These shares are the responsibility of the parties with whom we negotiated the overall transaction.
They're very smart people that are under no pressure to sell any or all of our shares within any certain timeline.
And indeed if Archstone going public was in fact an option for them they were clearly prepared to hold stock for quite some time and must have had the ability to do so under the terms of emergence from bankruptcy last year.
Our understanding is that they have ample cash to meet any pending distributions to their creditors from the multiple billion dollars of cash paid as part of our closing and that realized from monetizing other assets.
But they will have to monetize or position our stock at some point in the future and we're obligated to help them to do that if asked.
We recognize the Street would like Lehman out of our stock.
And believe me we would like Lehman out of our stock and Lehman will ultimately get out but they're in no hurry to do so because they have the necessary flexibility to exit in a fashion that will maximize the return to their creditors and they intend to do just that.
So all that being said we do know that the underlying value of our company is not dependent on who owns those shares.
There's really not a whole lot more we can say about that and so we'll be happy to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of David Toti with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on development and I get the sense that there's an increasing interest on your part relative to expanding the pipeline adding to the land bank.
And this seems to be occurring at the same time that we're seeing higher levels of supply and other sort of entrants into the supply market.
What are your thoughts around sort of beginning to accelerate product delivery at this point in the cycle? Well I guess David I'd tell you that the Archstone assets that we acquired the land sites that we acquired that we expect to build are absolutely terrific land sites.
As I said 5 of them are in San Francisco Bay Area 4 downtown and 1 in the Peninsula.
And we believe that these will be great long-term assets for us.
And we just think frankly that construction costs could continue to rise from here and we believe if they have the ability to get going on these sooner than later that's a smart thing to do.
I guess what I'll tell you that while you may see in 2013 and 2014 our development starts increase from what has sort of been our historical levels I would not expect that to be a new run rate -- having established a new run rate but rather working through this increased inventory that we have before we might step back into what you've seen us do on an annual basis in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then along those lines what kind of yields are you thinking about today relative to let's say Alexandria versus the New York sites? And what's the sort of trend in the shadow pipeline relative to the yield expectations? Well I guess of the assets that we have in D.C.
today including that which we just finished we're kind of in the mid-6s on those deals.
And in New York City thanks I guess in large part to the terrific deal we've got on the deal in Amsterdam that I mentioned where we think our current yield on current rents would be in the high 6s we'd be close to about 6% on the 2 deals that we're building now that on 400 Park Avenue South and our deal on Amsterdam.
So we think those are pretty good returns given where our assets trade in that marketplace today oftentimes with a 3 handle.
And certainly when comparing to the 6% yields that we're selling on our assets in Atlanta Phoenix et cetera we think that's a pretty good trade.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just have one quick follow-up and I'll yield the floor.
There's been some discussion here in Manhattan around the resurgence of office conversion to rentals and condominiums.
Are you guys involved in anything like that relative to some of the deals you might be looking at? No we're not.
Our next question comes from the line of Nicholas Joseph with Citibank.
Research Division</strong> David you mentioned that move-outs to rent being too high is down year-over-year as you replace the departing tenants with new tenants used to paying higher rents.
So does this give you more confidence to be able to push renewals even further than you already are? Well I think that's a function more of a market-by-market situation.
Obviously if you go to a D.C.
where rents are moderating you have a lot of new supply.
Pricing power is diminished.
It's hard to push renewals above current market rents.
I mean our historical approach has always been to bring renewals to the current market rents if not overshoot them a bit.
So it's more of a function of market rents than anything.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you talk about traffic patterns this year relative to historical averages? Yes traffic for the quarter was up about 5% and that's with a minus 1% in January.
So we're seeing very good demand.
When you say traffic I refer to it as foot traffic and that's when people actually walk into our shop.
That's great.
That resulted in a 3% increase in applications which resulted in a 3% increase in move-ins for Q1.
And then as far as our website goes just the activity there especially as a result of kind of leveraging the Archstone website has really increased 50%.
I mean that's what we saw for Q1.
So there's definitely no lack of demand that's for sure.
Research Division</strong> And does that kind of increase year-over-year was consistent in April as well -- in terms of foot traffic? Well foot traffic yes.
April was a great month for us.
April is for all intents and purposes stronger than the first quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob Stevenson with Macquarie.
Can you talk a little bit about the expectations for D.C.
over the remainder of the year? You guys had relative to some of your peers I think a stronger first quarter in terms of both occupancy and rental rate.
Do you guys expect that to continue or is there basically -- are you hitting it 1 quarter or 2 later than other people and you're just going to -- expecting to start -- in your guidance or your plan for 2013 do you expect to see D.C.
to continue to weaken over the coming quarters? Well I think that remains to be seen how weak D.C.
will be.
Certainly when everyone is concerned and the folks that don't have yield management systems that don't have visibility into their operations the first thing they do is build up their occupancy and we see that.
We see a lot of our competitors running at 97% 98% occupancy.
We try to be a little more measured use the visibility we have make informed decisions not run for cover.
Our underwriting I will tell you we really assumed rents would remain flat for most of the year as far as new leases but we're seeing -- we sent out 7% renewals for June and July in D.C.
-- granted there will be more of a gap in what we achieve.
But when you take getting a 5% on renewal increases and maybe a 1% on new leases that gives you about a 3% to 4% revenue growth.
Are there any markets where you're seeing demonstrably different performance than the others -- in D.C.? Well so when I look at our May billings there is only one property and we've referenced this property before and that's 425 Mass.
That's ground 0 as far as NoMa goes.
You can see 15 cranes from the rooftop and that really is our only property that has a year-over-year negative revenue growth and current month billing negative revenue growth.
Everyone else as far as May year-to-date May billings relative to last year is still billing positive.
I would tell you that Boston Rosslyn that's doing fine.
Pentagon City is doing fine.
So really I would say it's a general softness pretty much across the whole market.
Okay.
And then after being in the assets now for a bit I mean is there any major deferred maintenance CapEx from the Archstone assets that you guys are going to have to rectify over the rest of the year? I would tell you that I have been to most of the properties.
There's a lot of CapEx that was in process.
I think they did a reasonable job of maintaining the integrity of the buildings.
I think the opportunity is in the interior of the units the rehab opportunity.
And we are certainly taking advantage of those and will be proceeding with probably 8 to 10 complete interior rehabs.
Yes just to add some color.
I mean we have about 1 200 Archstone rehabs we expect to complete this year.
We have 3 600 units Archstone units that we've approved rehabs to do and we expect to kind of knock out 1 200 or more each in the next few years.
So we have a sense that there's value that can be created there.
And let me just add on the CapEx side Rob.
As we look at CapEx spend on our portfolio this year and the Archstone portfolio we expect to spend a little bit more on their portfolio on a kind of dollar-per-unit basis.
But I'll tell you that that amount of spend is well below what we would ordinarily or expect to spend on a new acquisition on a just one-off acquisition.
And so -- and I'll also tell you it is well below that total amount of spend sort of a placeholder for CapEx that we had on our numbers when we underwrote the transaction.
So while it may be a little bit more than what we've got at a run rate it's well below what we normally spend on a new buy and well below the placeholder in our pro formas.
What are you guys targeting for 2013 on a per-unit basis just on the maintenance the sort of FFO adjustment per unit? So we have guided you to $1 500 on the same-store side.
So if you go to CapEx that's Page 22 of the release so that includes everything.
It includes the rehabs because of course the rehabs could be maintenance-related or they could be income-producing and incremental and there's difference of opinion on that.
So we lay that out in the same-store pool about $1 500 a unit.
And then in addition you'll have what we spend on the Archstone stuff and I think it'll be probably a little higher than $1 500 but not necessarily a lot as David said.
Yes.
And I guess I just would add on that with respect to the Archstone rehabs we have approved a lot of rehabs.
As Mark's noted we'll expect to do $1 200 or so.
And we're expecting a solid mid-teens return on that incremental capital invested.
Our next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions here.
First on the development especially because it looks like if you do $800 million of starts here the CIP would get up to the $1 billion $1.5 billion type range which is pretty healthy for you guys.
Do you have a view on what starts will be this cycle? I mean clearly we have material uptick year after a prolonged period of undersupply in the market.
So is your view that we're sort of in a pig in a python right now where there's a sudden surge and then it peters out to a more normalized level? Or is your view that everyone is going to pile into this thing and we're going to go back to levels similar to the '80s? Well I guess you've asked a question about development nationally and I'll answer your question about what we expect to see in our markets.
Yes so I guess I would tell you that I think we're seeing development in our markets that had -- could have been built up over several years of no starts for obvious reasons.
So that there was a lot of entitled land ready to go that nothing started on because no access to construction debt et cetera et cetera.
So I think we are seeing a little bit more than what you'd expect to see in our core markets in a normal run rate.
And again as I said we look at this through the product we have we look at the yields we think we can achieve some concern about continued rise in construction costs we think it's a good time to go ahead and move forward with the projects that we have on our balance sheet.
As you note about just -- the total amount of construction a lot of that stuff that's on there will roll off.
And regardless of what we start this year a lot of that capital won't be spent until next year.
So believe me we're going to keep an eye on it.
We do not expect to operate for multiple years at elevated levels of development.
Again we may have a couple of years up but our run rate will be more of what you've seen us do in the past.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a second question is more New York-centric.
Post had some interesting commentary on their call which makes some sense.
I'm curious what you guys are seeing in your portfolio.
As you look at operating you have uptown you have sort of Chelsea downtown and Brooklyn.
Are you seeing differences in your ability to push rent tenant turnover rent levels et cetera? Or is despite seemingly that everyone wants to live downtown the turnover and ability to push rents is sort of the same whether you're uptown downtown or in Brooklyn? Well I'll let David answer that but I'll just sort of note whatever conclusions you're drawing from Post I think you're coming from a sample size of 2.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Correct correct.
Clearly a smaller sample size but...
I guess I would say that we don't see a whole lot of difference no matter where you are.
Jersey City which we -- I guess we call the suburbs is not as robust.
But Brooklyn our Brooklyn our asset did a -- doing a 12.
So we don't really see any difference.
And frankly with the addition of the Archstone assets and the close proximity to our assets we're able to do a lot more effective cross-selling and we see a lot of residents moving between buildings and what have you.
So we're very pleased with what we see in New York.
Yes.
I mean we reported Alex just inside our numbers for New York City and that includes Brooklyn a 5.9% revenue number.
New Jersey Northern New Jersey was 5.5%.
And everything else which for us is a small amount of further out suburban but very small of around 3%.
So I think those trends are broadly consistent with other reporters who have larger portfolios that are more suburban-focused and that's how you get to an average for us of about a 5.5% revenue number.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So from what I hear you saying it sounds like as you look forward to investing more in the city you're sort of agnostic whether you're uptown or downtown.
You just view the trend as good across the entire market not better in any one submarket.
Yes I think that's the case.
I mean clearly there might be more desired neighborhoods or markets than others but they'll be priced accordingly.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions.
First David it sounded like in your comments that the revenue from Archstone was pretty much tracking as you expected but that the expense side was materially better on the operating side.
I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit more about that and how much more is there to go as you kind of move into the second and third quarter? Yes.
Well I guess I would say that we did make an adjustment for the first 4 months of acquisition.
We did offer all of the Archstone on-site folks a job and we accounted for that.
So -- but in between the time that we made that offer and we did budgets we're seeing a considerable downsizing from people making decisions to leave and what have you.
And then some of it is just simply timing.
But I think when you look at our overall annualized run rates after this 4-month period we pretty much underwrote the deal very similar if not identical to how we operate our communities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess second question for maybe David Neithercut.
As you kind of look at the arbitrage that is existing because kind of where the public shares trade of many of the multifamily companies and where you can sell high-quality assets I guess at what level or how do you think about maybe selling more assets and either buying back stock from Lehman or buying back stock in the open market to potentially close that gap or a tax considerations -- just make that a very difficult exercise to execute.
Look I guess we've worked very hard to assemble these assets.
We think that they are terrific and will create value for us for a long time.
And we're not going to react to just some short-term sort of dislocation for things that aren't under our control.
I think we're focused right now on running what we've got and creating as much value as we can and I think the rest of it will sort of sort itself out.
That doesn't mean that aren't times when we might not consider doing what you suggest Steve but I just think that there's some short-term dislocation going on that we're not going to overreact to at the moment.
Our next question comes from the line of Jana Galan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick modeling question.
On the dispositions for the rest of the second quarter and the second half of the year are you still targeting about a 6% cap rate or are these assets different markets or maybe slightly older? No I think -- yes it's interesting.
What we've sold in the first quarter was around 6%.
What we've sold this quarter to-date is around 6%.
And what we think we'll do for the whole year is about 6%.
So you can continue to use 6 in your numbers.
Research Division</strong> And then on the acquisitions you didn't really expect much for this year except for Archstone but you did acquire a Seattle asset in the first quarter.
Do you think you'll still see opportunistic one-offs from your acquisition team or you're just really focused on Archstone for the remainder of the year? Well I mean I guess we'll always consider but we did buy one asset and it was sort of done in tandem with the one asset that we sold in Seattle.
So we sold the Archstone Belltown deal to the same people from whom we acquired the Seattle deal in Redmond.
So we sold an older high-rise building in Seattle and bought a recently-constructed mid-rise property in Redmond and we thought that was a very good trade and done at a very comparable cap rate.
And I think that that's what you may see more from us going forward is our ability to trade assets at cap rates that are far far closer than what we've seen in the past.
But we'll look at other opportunities this year if they're out there.
Mark had noted we've got $500 million of cash we have on the balance sheet and we've got the capacity but I would not expect us to be active in the marketplace.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on Steve Sakwa's question.
If you approached Lehman and said we'd like to take out $1 billion of your holdings here at a price that was slightly above where your stock is today is that something that you think they'd be receptive to or you would be willing to do? I guess Ross I understand people have got a lot of questions about all this and it's just not appropriate for me to talk about it.
I sort of told you what we know and that's really about all I can say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But not even so much what Lehman would do but with respect to what your willingness is.
I mean do you think about as an option to clear out their position thinking about taking them out at a price that makes sense for everybody involved? Oh we'd be happy to do something that made sense for a price for everybody involved.
I mean look I think we've got to be openminded about how to address this but I don't think -- we're not going to act desperate in the process so -- but we're in contact with these folks and we're also in contact frankly with other people who have suggested interest in buying perhaps some stock and I guess I'd just tell you that we'll play whatever role we may need to play to help facilitate something.
But frankly my guess and my expectation is that we won't have to play a direct role ourselves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So let me turn to operations.
I might have missed this but was there any commentary on what the new lease increases were during the first quarter above the tenancy lift? The new lease base rents for the quarter hovered around 3% 2.5% to 3%.
Today when I look at the rate it's right there almost at 4% 3.9%.
Our next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Actually my question has been answered already.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> David just to go back to that last question the 3% you quoted.
Was that lease-over-lease? No those are LRO base rents.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you have by lease-over-lease by chance? The lease-over-lease probably on average was about 0.75 point for the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And second of all I'm not sure if you look at this but if you look at the blended between renewals and new leases signed in the quarter -- in the first quarter the average -- the rents that were signed in the quarter how does that compare kind of on a year-over-year basis? I'm not sure that I understand your question.
So are you asking Mike whether there's more renewals than usual in the first as compared to the first quarter of 2012? LLC Research Division</strong> No.
What I'm asking is the leases that were signed in the first quarter including both renewals and new leases on a blended basis what was the average rent increase on leases signed in the first quarter versus on a comparable basis the leases signed in the first quarter of '12? Okay.
So renewals signed in Q1 of '13 averaged 5.7%.
I don't have Q1 of '12.
I can tell you that Q4 was 6.2%.
But I'm sure Q1 of '12 was probably 7% I'm guessing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll follow up off-line with you on that one.
Second question I know you only owned the Archstone portfolio for about a month.
But any kind of -- and you didn't control it obviously last year but any kind of comparable metrics you could provide? You said it's performing better on the expenses but any kind of numbers you can put around that? Better on expenses than what we had budgeted.
Yes I guess what I would tell you is is that we have pulled in all of their revenue data so we feel comfortable in quoting a comparable revenue number.
But when you look at the expenses: a they were not a public company.
They had different capitalization policies.
All I can tell you is is that when we looked at their actual data relative to ask our expenses they were operating their properties about $400 per unit higher than our communities our same-store pool.
And we underwrote that acquisition using our same-store expense numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
And finally David having owned the portfolio now for about 2 months as you look out over the next couple of years where do you see is the biggest opportunity within the Archstone portfolio? Well I think we've already discussed that Mike it's these rehabs.
We've got -- I think as we've said previously I think that the Archstone/Lehman team did an adequate job taking care of the properties but we don't think that they took advantage of opportunities that were there with a little extra capital.
And I think it's the rehab -- our ability to execute the rehab program which we've really got down to an art here.
As I said at least on the ones we've underwritten today could be 15% returns on what we're talking about as another $35 million of investment in these assets.
So we think that that will create a significant amount of upside for us.
Our next question comes from the line of David Harris with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Here's a couple of questions for you Mark.
I think you made reference to spreads widening on secured debt.
I wonder if you could just add a little color to that.
If I missed it I apologize.
And also in any way is that spread widening associated with this backdrop of noise which seems to be gathering in pace around Fannie and Freddie reform? Right.
What we saw over the course of the quarter David was an increase in the spread that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac charge on what we'll call normal leverage which is sort of a 70% 125 kind of coverage loan.
So we see that spread as approaching 2%.
That's a considerable increase.
This is all 10-year debt numbers I'm quoting.
And on the unsecured side I see that number as 130 to 140 for EQR.
So you can see how it's become less favorable.
I do think there is some impact from the regulator's requirement of the 2 GSEs that they change and take a lower market share.
I certainly think this is one way to do it.
But you're still talking about an all-in rate that's about 3.6% on the secured side.
And so if you're like most folks in the multifamily business and you don't have access to the unsecured market it's still a really good rate.
And we have not seen -- and we had some good dialogue with our investment team we have not seen or had any problems selling assets because of the spread widening just because absolute rates are just so low.
But yes I do think there is some push and that that is one of the reasons -- from the regulator -- one of the reasons these spreads have increased.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean you flagged this.
I mean if I go back 2 or 3 years ago David you flagged this as being a reason why you were keen to push forward with sales.
This is as I say 2 or 3 years ago before Archstone obviously was ever on board [ph].
What kind of spread do you think becomes an issue in terms of being able to sell the assets you are looking to sell and the cost of finance the relative spread cost of finance to the buyer.
Are we talking 300? What is it 70 -- 60 70 80 basis points today? I mean double that? Does that become an issue then? Yes I guess -- it's Mark Parrell again giving it a shot David.
It's the all-in rate that matters not the spread.
So if the treasuries went down again which we always think is impossible and then it happens.
I would tell you that spread could be 3% if the treasury is 1% nothing would happen.
I also point out that we've now disposed of a great deal of the assets that carried that risk that we highlighted for you some years ago.
So I'm not quite sure how that all works.
I mean do all-in rates go up because there is growth in the economy in which case our NOI is growing faster in which case coverage of the loan is not a problem.
LLC Research Division</strong> We live in hope on that one.
Yes we hope right? Or is it inflation or spread.
So I would tell you I don't have a magic number for you except I think the all-in rate's a lot more important than spread.
Let's not forget the CMBS market out there too David.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right right.
Well are CMBS spreads widening like the Fannie and Freddie debt or not? No.
There was a little widening earlier in the year and that's come back in.
I mean the life companies and CMBS have become more active.
The life companies are more on low leverage a little bit higher quality little younger assets where the CMBS market is mostly right now playing in the B market segment -- the B asset market segment where they're becoming more active and I would expect the CMBS market could replace the GSE's good component or the GSE supply that's going away with relative ease.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question relates -- and it's a point of detail.
But you referenced the German assets that are held in the joint venture your Archstone joint venture.
I mean do these amount to very much in terms of net asset exposure to the euro? We hedged a component of our exposure to the change as it related to assets David that are on the block and will be sold shortly.
There's another part of the business that will take us a little while longer and we have not hedged that just because of the uncertainty.
But it's not -- frankly it's not actually that material amount of money in the aggregate to us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Less than 1% if I sort of pick a number? I think you could pick a number of less than $100 million and say -- which is considerably less than 1% as our share of what we would expect out of Germany.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
To move on just a question on the Page 8 and sitting at 92% of your portfolio in core.
David I think you said that number will be 90% by year end understanding there's a lot of moving parts.
But what do you think the long term is? Is 90% the right number? No let me -- I've got heads nodding they're telling me that I said 90%; I meant to say 95%.
Everybody knew that when I said it and I appreciate you bringing it up.
At the end of this year we'll be 95%.
Okay okay.
That screws up the rest of my question.
So then the other part of it is D.C.
and New York Metro area is 35% of the total.
How comfortable are you with that in the long term? Well I think that's a number that would need to be brought down over time and we'll continue to bring it down.
We knew going into this that because of the weighting the share of the Archstone assets that were in D.C.
that we probably would ramp ourselves up a little more than we'd like.
But we still have got assets in D.C.
that are not in the district that are not in the Arlington area that we can sell to bring that number down.
What level of kind of normal activity would you expect in 2014 and beyond of just portfolio management couple billion on either side every year something like that? No I think that's way high.
And I guess unlike what we've been doing over the past several years in trying to sell assets and reallocate that capital we have the ability to I think be a little bit more timers [ph] now.
I think that when we find opportunities to reinvest capital we can certainly access our disposition -- some disposition assets.
But we'll still have some assets in Orlando.
We'll have -- still have some assets that we'll need -- that we'll want to sell but we'll be in no hurry to sell them and I think that we'll do so only if and when we find the right reinvestment opportunities.
Okay.
In terms of the same-store portfolio will you consider folding in Archstone into that analysis this year even though you haven't owned it for the full year or will that be something that'll happen later? Unfortunately the Archstone portfolio will not be in our full year same store until 2015 because we will not own it for a full year until all of 2014.
It will be brought into quarterly numbers in the second quarter of 2014 okay because we will have owned it for the full second quarter of 2013.
Okay understood.
Got it.
In terms of the Archstone developments that you're planning on selling will those then be housed in a TRS and hence will you be booking gains into FFO when you do sell those assets? Well first off when we book those assets -- it's Mark Parrell answering Rich -- the assets were brought in at market because we're required to do purchase accounting and book them at fair market.
So if we sell them there will be minimal gain or loss on those assets I would expect.
So right now there's a little bit of gain you see already in our regular NAREIT-defined FFO.
That's from a legacy property -- we held a piece of land for a long time not related to Archstone.
So I would not expect material gains on the Archstone development noncore stuff that we're going to sell.
The land the development assets themselves we'll see because we're going to stabilize those and build them out.
In terms of the TRS we have plenty of NOLs to go against tax so I wouldn't expect there to be any material tax hit on those assets.
But if we bought an asset with the intention to sell we would have put it in the TRS.
Okay.
Last question for me is if there was anything kind of wrong about Archstone it was their accounting not so conservative particularly from a capital expenders perspective -- expenditures perspective.
Do you see any material adjustments from an accounting viewpoint from your -- when you're looking at the portfolio or is all that stuff kind of behind you at this point? Well I'm not sure their accounting -- I'm not sure I'd characterize their accounting that way first of all.
And second I don't think their expense and CapEx accounting is actually relevant to us anymore.
I mean our expenses are going to be completely than different than theirs because we're resetting real estate taxes we have different capitalization policies.
So I'll tell you those folks we've dealt with them for a while and they've been nothing but professional and honorable to deal with.
So I don't think their accounting is actually all that relevant to us on a go-forward basis because we're really -- it's sort of a fresh start for us.
It did make me think when you saw lower expenses from the Archstone portfolio that maybe that was a capitalization issue as opposed to a real expense issue.
Well we looked at it -- I mean we don't care about the accounting honestly.
We look at just what it cost to run the asset and we saw savings in both realms.
Our next question comes from the line of Nicholas Joseph with Citibank.
Research Division</strong> Yes Michael Bilerman.
David another question on dividend policy.
A few years ago end of 2010 you went to this new policy of 65% of sort of Normalized FFO.
And I think at the time you expressed some views that others may follow and you really like the policy.
I'm just thinking sort of a few years hence not many people or no one has followed that sort of methodology in all the services whether it be Bloomberg Reuters -- SNL continue to show your dividend yield at 2.8% where in your mind it's much higher a 3.2% a 3.3% based on your forecast for the year.
And I'm just wondering whether that's limiting the investor base at all that really don't understand that may just be taking a quick look.
You're a big cap REIT.
And so I'm just wondering whether you rethink the plan now that you've tried it.
And I admire you for trying it but I'm just thinking about whether it would be a success going forward.
That's a very good question Michael.
I will tell you that we continue to think that it is the best and appropriate dividend policy for the company.
That being said we have given a great deal of thought to how we would pay that out.
So at the present time we pay out at a lower level in each of the first 3 quarters and kind of true-up in the fourth quarter dividend.
And we wondered whether or not we shouldn't think differently about how we pay it out over the year.
But in no way have we ever discussed or considered actually changing the policy of being 65% of that Normalized FFO.
Had we not been in the middle of this entire Archstone process that might have been something that had been addressed earlier.
But I do know that it's something that our board will be looking at towards the end of this year and could consider for next year.
So not a change to the policy but rather a change in terms of how that dividend will actually be distributed.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And perhaps even thinking maybe as a range that you don't get into a point of having to lower dividend and then get on lists of -- like that where there's inconsistencies in dividends.
Just a question just in terms of sale activity.
And I do take your point on not trying to be reactive to a short-term dislocation in the marketplace and that you spent years assembling what is an unbelievable portfolio of assets that you wouldn't want to just sell just to prove a  point in terms of valuation.
But would you sell interest in assets and so that you're still maintaining the portfolio that you have but arguably just a lower interest in a handful of assets to generate that capital to potentially buy back stock if you wanted to do that but you're not losing control of the asset.
Well I guess look I think that if and when we feel the need to raise capital for any purpose we'd consider all sources.
We are not as enamored with joint ventures as you may see others in other sectors.
We just believe that we're working too hard for someone else's money and don't get appropriately paid for it.
And we just kind of lose control of assets and people got different -- I guess we don't see any need or desire to get budgets approved by a third party and then be accountable to that third party.
But again I mean that's certainly something that could be considered if and when the time comes for whatever purpose to raise capital.
But I'll also suggest that we've still got as I said assets in Orlando and others that we know that we'll sell over time that could create significant capital of course if we wanted to for whatever purpose.
And at this time I'm not showing any further audio questions.
Please go ahead with any closing remarks.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate everybody's time today and we look forward to seeing many of you at NAREIT here in Chicago in June.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Equity Residential 2Q '13 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast on Wednesday 31st of July 2013.
[Operator Instructions] I will now hand the conference over to Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's second quarter results.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; David Santee our Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Now I'll turn the call over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our call today.
Last night we were very pleased to report our operating results for the second quarter and first half of the year which showed continued strong apartment fundamentals across our markets.
As expected San Francisco Denver and Seattle continue to lead the way.
And also as expected we're beginning to experience weakness in the Washington D.C.
market.
Last night we also reported that we currently expect our full year same-store operating performance to be right on the guidance we provided in February with a slightly negative impact on expenses due to real estate taxes which David Santee will address in just a moment.
So with respect to revenues and controllable expenses we're very much on our numbers.
And that comes despite having integrated 21 000 new apartment units into our new store portfolio while also overseeing the operations in 24 000 units that we disposed of during the first half of the year.
And please don't underestimate the effort it takes to run a disposition effort.
It really requires a great deal of time and attention through the entire sales process.
So our teams across the country have done a fabulous job so far this year delivering the goods on all fronts: same-store performance new asset integration and asset sales.
And I send my most sincere thanks and congratulations to our investment and property management teams for a job very well done.
So David Santee now will give you a bit more detail about fundamentals and what we're seeing across some of our markets today.
Thank you David.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll be discussing the key drivers of our operating results for the quarter as well as providing brief highlights for each of our core markets and then close with an update on the Archstone integration and operating performance.
As reported last night our 4.9% revenue growth for the quarter was dead on our projections that drive our full year guidance.
Occupancy for the quarter improved to 95.3% as a result of healthy demand across all markets and reduced resident turnover.
Apartment turnover for the quarter declined 20 basis points.
And as we discussed last quarter we continue to see benefit from our concentration of assets by realizing 11% increase year-to-date in our same or intra-property transfers.
Home-buying across the portfolio increased 90 basis points quarter-over-quarter from 12.1% of move-outs to 13%.
This 90 bp increase equates to 102 incremental move-outs to buy homes versus same quarter 2012 with most of the increases coming from Washington D.C.
Seattle and Boston.
All other markets were either flat or showed market declines most notably San Francisco which fell 180 and 160 basis points in Q1 and Q2 respectively.
Now operating from a position of strong occupancy and low exposure allowed us to enter the peak leasing season with base rents in our projected range of 3% to 4% and achieve renewal increases of 5.6% for April 5.6% in May and a 5.5% in June with July recently closing up at 5.4%.
Looking forward quoted increases for August and September averaged 6.5% and we would expect to achieve our normal 150 basis point spread resulting in net increases in excess of 5%.
Now while it's only a matter of time our expense growth of 3.6% has brought our streak of 24 quarters of 3% expense growth or less to an end.
At 32% of total expense it's no surprise to anyone that real estate taxes are the key driver.
And as a result we have revised our full year tax growth to 7.1% driven mostly by a 38% value increase in Colorado.
Our 7.6% real estate tax growth for the quarter represents a catch-up accrual to end the year at 7.1%.
Additionally as we discussed on our Q1 call natural gas has been trading in a very tight range but it's still 20% to 30% higher than the lows of 2012.
That coupled with a 50% increase in heating oil cost will produce full year expense growth at the high end of our range.
As we have discussed previously real estate tax payroll and utilities account for 69% of total operating expense.
It's important to know that year-to-date excluding real estate taxes expense growth amounted to only 1.7%.
Now taking a quick trip across our core markets.
I'll start with Seattle which continues to outperform our expectations.
Absorbing over 4 000 units in Q2 the delivery of new units especially Belltown and Downtown appears to be well dispersed and orderly with strong occupancy and base rent growth in the mid-single digits.
Bellevue and Redmond and other markets north continue to lead the market with base rents currently in double-digit territory.
San Francisco shows no signs of letting up with year-to-date base rent growth up 14.9%.
To date we have seen absolutely 0 impact in North San Jose from new deliveries.
In the past 45 days we have leased 77 of the first 107 units that have come online at our new domain development at rents above our pro forma.
Additionally our new Archstone Santa Clara community located in ground zero of North San Jose is 98.4% occupied with a 3% -- 3.6% exposure and outperforming our pro forma revenue through July.
Los Angeles and Orange County continue to strengthen with base rents up year-to-date 4.5% and 4.6% respectively.
Although less robust than our initial expectations the Beach Cities Tri-Cities and Mid-Wilshire remain very healthy and lead to double-digit rental rate growth in the last 60 days.
Orange County has performed consistently throughout the year as limited new supply and an improving job picture should produce steady outsized revenue growth in the near term.
Moving on to San Diego.
I guess it's no surprise that the shift has finally come in.
And with the reorientation of military focus to the Pacific Rim and minimal new supply we would expect a more stable operating environment with steady improving rent growth.
Beginning in the year with flat base rents current year-over-year base rent growth has been slightly better than 3%.
Now moving on to the East Coast.
Boston continues to remain solid with continued job growth in the health care and education sectors.
We would expect and are seeing a move to a more normal rent growth environment currently 3.5% to 4% year-over-year as Boston is further along in the cycle coupled with the slug of new deliveries in Downtown later this year.
Manhattan continues to see strong demand from an increasingly diversified rental pool.
As buildings began to reopen after Hurricane Sandy we saw some minimal price pressure early in the year but the typical summer demand is now upon us.
Brooklyn has come on strong with double-digit base rent growth while we've seen more prolonged softness in Jersey City as a result of modest concessions being introduced into the market and the weakened path closings made Jersey City a less attractive option.
Historically we have seen renters trade down to Jersey as prices move up in Manhattan but not this year.
Year-to-date base rent growth for the metro area including outer suburbs and Jersey waterfront is 4.5%.
Washington D.C.
continues to show signs of stress as new deliveries come online and the impact of sequestration and furloughs put a damper on the metro area economy.
However at 95.6% occupancy today and over 9 000 Class A units being absorbed in the past 12 months there continues to be healthy demand for apartments even in the face of declining government payrolls and procurement.
As the supply peaks in 2014 with 19 000 expected new deliveries we would expect our results to be weaker than they are today as we continue to realize positive rent growth from renewals with base rent growth under pressure.
And last but not least South Florida with only 6 800 new units expected across the 3-county area for 2014 we would expect these units to be absorbed quickly just as they are today due to above-average population growth and the continued positioning as a center for international trade.
Moving out over the typical summer decline we would expect base rent growth to tick back up in the 4% to 5% range year-over-year.
So to recap we are exactly where we thought we would be from a revenue perspective when we gave guidance back in February.
The near-term fundamentals of almost all markets is expected to be extremely favorable despite the supply concerns.
And as we continue to see an improving job market strong household formation and home-buying that to date appears to be in check we are confident that our portfolio will continue to produce results above historical norms.
As for the Archstone portfolio I remain extremely pleased with our progress thus far.
The technical aspects are complete and are well behind us.
Our retention of the quality associates that came onboard is extremely high and we continue to weave the operations of both portfolios together to maximize the value to our shareholders our residents and all of our Equity Residential associates.
Our revenue is right on track versus pro forma and our expenses continue to outperform our expectations as we leverage the hand-in-glove geographies of our new communities.
I'd like to thank everyone across EQR land for all of the extra effort over the last several months as we wrap up our peak leasing season knowing that we have delivered exactly what we said we would do.
All right.
Thank you David.
On the transactional side we remain very busy during the second quarter.
And as noted in last night's press release in the quarter we sold 19 assets 5 land parcels and a commercial building in Seattle for a total of $820 million.
In the first half of the year we've sold $3.7 billion of operating assets and as noted on Page 9 of the release have exited Jacksonville Florida and have limited assets remaining in Tacoma Atlanta and Phoenix.
Three of the remaining 6 assets in Phoenix are under contract and should close yet this summer with the last 3 sales likely being 2014 disposition events.
Since the end of the quarter we have sold one of our last 2 assets in Tacoma and we expect to sell the remaining one yet this year or in early 2014.
And finally in Atlanta of the 4 assets we still owned on June 30 2 are under contract and are scheduled to close next week and the others should be sold by the end of the year or early next year.
For the full year we've -- we currently expect to sell about $4.1 billion of assets.
This is primarily comprised of assets and exit markets with some noncore assets within our targeted markets.
Now as you know an important driver of the Archstone transaction was the ability it provided us to accelerate the sale of so many of these noncore assets.
And we're very pleased that the market has been extremely receptive to our offerings and we were able to achieve our disposition goals add values and yields that were right on top of our original expectations when we were finalizing the Archstone deal late last year.
And we were able to get it done much more quickly than we had planned thanks to the work that have done by our teams in advance of the announcement and we thereby significantly reduced the execution risk of the Archstone acquisition.
And that execution risk was real as demonstrated by the increase in the tenured treasury the spread widening and all-in increase in borrowing rates that we've seen take place over the last several years -- last several months or so.
This is precisely the risk that we wanted to manage.
And as Mark Parrell will discuss in greater detail in just a moment this accelerated level of dispositions came at the cost of more FFO dilution for the years than originally expected but it was a great trade.
And we're delighted we made it and we're glad we made it when we did.
The disclosure of our development business in last night's earnings release shows about $1.4 billion of active development currently underway and $156 million completed and we released some.
Of the $1.4 billion under construction 5 assets totaling about $300 million which came to us as part of the Archstone transaction are not considered core investments and we would expect to sell these following lease-up and stabilization.
During the quarter we sold the 5 land sites that we've mentioned at our most recent earnings call 4 that were acquired as part of the Archstone transaction.
Three of these were in Phoenix one -- and one was in Maryland.
And we also sold legacy land site in EQR's inventory in South Florida to a condo developer and we more than doubled our investment in that property.
We continue to hold 4 Archstone land sites that we expect to sell in the near term 1 in Maryland 2 in South Florida and 1 in Southern California.
And as I noted on our April call the remaining 5 Archstone assets will be held for future development 1 site in D.C.
and 4 in the city of San Francisco.
In the second quarter we also bought one new land site in the heart of Seattle's Ballard neighborhood where we will build 303 units for approximately $83 million at a mid-5% yield on current rents.
With this recent acquisition in the Archstone land sites we intend to keep we now own a total of 18 land sites and control 2 others representing a pipeline of nearly 6 000 units with a development cost of approximately $2.5 billion.
We did not begin construction on any new projects in the second quarter.
So our year-to-date starts remained at the $130 million level which we started in the first quarter.
However we have the potential to begin construction yet this year on as much as another $800 million of development which could bring our starts for the year to nearly $1 billion and will add great assets to our portfolio in key locations of the urban core of our target markets and create significant value for our shareholders.
So now I'll turn the call over to Mark Parrell.
Thank you David.
I want to take a few minutes this morning to describe the changes we made to our normalized FFO and revenue guidance for the full year and give you some color on our recent capital market activities.
For the year we have provided a revised normalized FFO guidance range of $2.80 per share to $2.85 per share.
And at the midpoint this is a reduction of about $0.03 per share from our original guidance back in February.
This change is primarily due to the company's success in selling noncore assets to fund the Archstone acquisition faster than we had anticipated.
As David Neithercut just said we think selling these noncore assets quickly at great prices before the recent run-up in rates was absolutely the right decision.
We have tightened our same-store revenue range for the full year around our original midpoint and now expect annual same-store revenue to be up 4% 4.4% to 4.6% versus our original guidance range back in February of up 4% to 5%.
Our philosophy on our same-store guidance is to give you as early as possible what we believe will be our most likely outcome and then to hit that guidance.
Our systems and personnel has a proven track record as accurate forecasters and we believe that the investment community benefits from this quality and accuracy.
Other guidance changes were relatively minor.
We increased our G&amp;A guidance midpoint because of higher compensation cost than we had originally budgeted.
I do expect G&amp;A to go down in 2014 as Archstone-related items come out of our numbers.
Interest expense will likely be somewhat better than we have thought because we paid off higher-cost debt earlier than we expected due to our accelerated disposition pace.
And now I just have a few quick things to cover on the capital market side.
First I want to give you some color on our finance strategy relative to the $1.5 billion in debt that we have maturing in 2014.
We manage interest expense like any other operating costs by trying to drive down our long-term costs without taking undue risk.
We generally hedge about half of the next year's maturity because we do recognize our inability to predict rates.
As rates have declined over the last few years hedging rates forward was a money-losing proposition.
But because we only hedged about half of our refinancing needs we did get a significant benefit from declining rates.
It is of course a different story when you're hedging into a rising rate environment.
Consistent with the thought process I just discussed we have been active in addressing the $1.5 billion in 2014 maturities.
We have entered into $350 million of forward-starting swaps locking in a tenured treasury rate of 2.42% in anticipation of debt issuance activities in 2014.
These swaps have a positive value of about $18 million today.
Also in April 2013 we issued $500 million of unsecured debt at a coupon rate of 3% and an all-in rate of 4%.
We do not budget for this issuance in our initial February guidance.
As a result once we complete our planned $4.1 billion in dispositions which should be around September 1 we will have a bit more than $500 million in excess cash.
Our new guidance assumes that these funds remain as cash for the entirety of 2013.
We could of course use these funds to address our 2014 maturities or to acquire assets.
Switching topics.
As we discussed on prior calls we are also working to address the elevated level of maturities we have in 2017 resulting from the Archstone acquisition.
We have about $2.2 billion or 19% of our debt maturing in that year.
We took steps as part of the Archstone loan assumption process to get some flexibility to address our 2017 maturities and are working with the lender to extend up to $1.3 billion of this debt by taking advantage of a bargain extension option granted to us at the time of the assumption by the lender.
We are also exploring other borrowing options and look forward to reporting back to you on the outcome during the October earnings call.
Finally as you saw on last night's release our board have authorized an increase in shares for both our ATM issuance program and our share repurchase program.
These are housekeeping matters that we are attending to now because our universal shelf -- and the universal shelf's the document under which we issued public debt and public equity -- expires shortly which in turn causes our ATM to lapse.
We are simply replenishing the availability in both programs to give us approximately $750 million capacity for either share issuance or share buyback which we think is an appropriate amount for a company our size.
As we said in the release we have no immediate plans to use either program.
We haven't used our ATM program in fact since the third quarter of 2012 and haven't used the share repurchase program in a number of years.
We consider ourselves careful stewards of your capital and have a track record that reflects our belief that we would only issue shares with the use of the funds and when matched with the prices of shares creates long-term value for our shoulders.
Share repurchases can also add value to the long term -- or add to the long-term value of our business in situations where there's a large disconnect between our share price and the private market value of our business and when other multifamily investment options are inferior NAV decisions.
At all times we will be mindful of maintaining the strength of our balance sheet.
And now I'll turn the call back over to David Neithercut.
All right.
Thank you Mark.
Like many public real estate companies who trace their beginnings back to the modern REIT era of the early 1990s EQR went public in 1993 and will celebrate its 20th anniversary as a public company on August 12.
We are extremely proud of our 20-year history having delivered a compounded average annual returns since our IPO of nearly 14% which compares quite favorably to 9% for the S&amp;P 500 and 11% for the REIT Index during the same time period.
And while we are extremely proud of the past returns we provided to our shareholders what we are particularly proud of is the company we have built during this time one that has done extremely well for its shareholders in the past and one that is positioned today to continue to deliver industry-leading performance for our shareholders far into the future; a company that did not simply weather the Great Recession without issuing dilutive equity but was also the earliest and most aggressive investor in late 2009 and early 2010 when others were not yet aware that a recovery was underway; a company with an operating platform and team of professionals that has unmatched visibility into its business and has yet again hit its operating guidance with laser-like precision while simultaneously and seamlessly integrating the 21 000 housing units we acquired in the Archstone transaction and while selling 24 000 noncore units that helps pay for it; and a company that over the last 10 years has transformed itself from an owner operator of garden [ph] apartment properties in low-barrier commodity markets across the country to an owner operator of assets in high-density urban areas with high Walk Scores in select markets with high housing costs and barriers to new entry.
As we celebrate our last 20 years and look forward towards the next 20 we think we are extraordinarily well positioned because there's no denying the growth the gateway city center.
There's no denying the continued demand in these cities where well-located good-quality rental housing like that provided by EQR.
There's no denying the powerful demographic impact on housing in these markets by the Echo Boom generation who are marrying later having children later and who will opt for the flexibly provided by rental housing much later in their lives than prior generations.
Because there's also no denying that there are more than 2 million additional 20- to 30-somethings living at home with Mom and Dad than historical average and that these so-called missing households will ultimate enter the housing market and will do so by primarily occupying rental housing.
And there's no denying that despite current levels of new supply our core markets will continue to have a shortage of rental housing to meet this strong and growing demand.
So as we look forward to our next 20 years we are extremely excited about how we are positioned with our assets with our platform and the team that will move us forward.
And with that now we'll be happy to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Michael Bilerman from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Great.
It's actually Nick Joseph here.
How's the transaction market and cap rates changed with the increase in rates? A very interesting question one that we're watching quite closely.
I will tell you that on core market core assets and core markets not at all.
There continues to be a very short supply and very long demand.
So we've seen very little change on cap rates there.
We think values on those kinds of assets can be made and modestly continue to increase.
On the -- not core not A product what we've kind of talked about is more leveraged-up product.
We've seen some modest change.
A lot of this increase in borrowing rates has occurred maybe over the last 60 or 90 days.
And a lot of deals that are getting done today would have been priced a while ago.
But I think we are certainly beginning to see some pushback from investors some re-trades and certainly are beginning to see some small impact on values as a result.
I guess I would say that I think that you'll -- would expect to see a bigger change in value as rates continue to go up.
We did not see any change early in this increase but more recently have begun to see some modest pushback.
Research Division</strong> And then what's the difference in expected yields between the development assets delivering in over the next few quarters versus developments that you're potentially starting later this year? Well I would tell you.
I mean the things that we're -- we'll be delivering in the next -- this year next year this day and these are -- will be stabilizing in -- some of them in the 7s and 8s and easily 6s.
And kind of what's been starting now or what will start this year on current rents we think we'll be in the mid-5s to low 6s.
Our next question comes from David Bragg from Green Street Advisors.
LLC</strong> As a follow-up on Nick's first question I think that you were concerned about 2 issues.
As you evaluated your asset sales not just the potential upward movement in interest rates but changes from Fannie and Freddie -- I think you covered the first part.
But can you talk about what you've observed from Fannie and Freddie over recent months and what the impact might be over time on cap rates? David it's Mark Parrell.
Just to comment on that I mean tactically Fannie and Freddie continue to work just as diligently.
They continue to get back to us.
There's no dysfunction occurring that we can see at all on the operational side.
What they have done though and probably in reaction to the regulator is to really hold spreads constant.
So what you see at the time we think that at the time we announced the Archstone transaction the all-in rate for kind of a maximum leverage 1.25x coverage alone in the kind of markets we're selling out of like Phoenix probably carried as the tenure amount of that loan would have carried a rate of 3.5% and would have had a spread of 1.7% or so.
We think that spread's probably up 50 basis points and that all-in rate is probably around 5%.
And so what I would tell you is Fannie and Freddie are operating day-to-day just fine.
But I would say that there has been an impact we have seen in terms of the regulators' input into spreads or some other type of input in the spread but has really caused Fannie and Freddie's rates to increase pretty substantially.
But what you see also are some of these buyers are taking advantage of 7-year deals and trying to moderate some of that rate increase by just going down the duration curve.
So we're seeing a little bit of that as well.
Our next question comes from Rich Anderson from BMO Capital Markets.
So appreciating your comment about your philosophy on same-store guidance.
But you also alluded to the prospects of improving job market and also the household formation issue of people still living with Mom and Dad.
How much of improving jobs and then improving household formation environment is included in your guidance? Or have you left some on the table not inclined to get out over your skis on the potential improvement in those 2 categories of demand.
Well I guess the -- really the year is kind of baked.
David and his team got pretty good visibility into August obviously September and then the number of transactions begins to really dwindle.
I mean there's -- it almost doesn't matter what happens between now and end of the year because so much of the year has already been determined.
We are certainly at a point now unlike the last several years.
We've talked in the past about how because people weren't moving out to buy single-family homes and there was no new supply and our occupancy was strong job growth just wasn't as important to us in moving rents.
Now with new supply coming job growth is becoming more important like it has been for -- in the -- for all of the history of the apartment space.
So clearly with the elevated levels of new supply in D.C.
there's demand there but we'd certainly like some more job supply the more jobs in order to help us have a little bit -- more wind at our back on the rental increase side.
But as it relates to this year and any estimates or projections we're making for this year that's really kind of a moot point.
Okay.
To David Santee you mentioned revenue is pretty much exactly where you expected relative to your February guidance.
But what -- it's assumed that nets to some things that didn't come out as expected at the market level.
Would you -- could you describe which market or markets have done better materially than you expected coming into the year and which have done worse? I would say that all of the Pacific Northwest markets continue to exceed our projections.
We're well ahead of -- if you want to say budget in Seattle Denver and San Francisco.
And I guess I would say relative to our internal expectations we had expected more from L.A.
And I think that like I said the Tri-Cities the Beach Cities all of those are doing fantastic with A-plus revenue growth.
But it's more of our fringe properties Santa Clarita Agoura Hills way north and the Valley.
That's really -- that's where you see a lot more home-buying and a different price point.
That's kind of averaging down our overall market growth.
But other than that everything is pretty much tracking as we expected.
Okay.
And then last question for me maybe to Dave Neithercut.
The single-family rental business is getting a lot of airtime lately including in today's Wall Street Journal.
I'm curious where you stand on that business as it becomes more and more of a mainstream thought process.
Where does EQR stand? Not that you would get into it but where do you consider it as a form of competition for the conventional multifamily product? Well I guess I'll tell you that as a form of competition for Equity Residential we don't see it at all.
If you look at the portfolios that these folks own it's Las Vegas it's Phoenix it's Tampa it's suburban Chicago it's Atlanta.
I mean we just don't overlap.
With respect to it competing with multifamily I mean single-family homes has -- have always been a very large share of overall rental housing.
But then the question comes is it a business? Is it a trade? I'm kind of in the -- I'm in the trade camp not the business camp.
And it'd be very interesting to see what happens.
And what do you think -- by being in the trade camp what do think the main risks to the story are? Is it just efficiencies in management? Is it capital expenditures? What are the things that cause you concern as a -- from an operating standpoint? Well I guess really the latter.
I think that they will be more challenging to manage than people think.
I think that it's likely that they will underestimate tenant credit quality underestimate the turn cost and releasing expenses and CapEx and maintenance and all of the above.
Not that it can't be done.
But the notion that it can be done as efficiently under the same margins with -- as multifamily I think is comical.
We owned the Lexford portfolio years ago which averaged 88 single-story units.
And believe me the margins on the Lexford portfolio was nothing like the margins that we enjoy in our high-density urban assets.
So I think that these claims that we operate the same margin as multifamily is just a joke.
Our next question comes from Jana Galan from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Following up on the decision to increase the ATM and the buyback program to levels more appropriate for the size of your business are you potentially thinking about other parts of the business whether it's the financial side or on operation that also need to increase given the larger scale you have? I'm not quite sure I understand the question.
Just in terms of the platform of our business we run a very tight ship.
And you've seen our G&amp;A costs as a percentage of revenue dollar our management costs as a percentage of revenue dollar are the lowest among our peers.
So I'm not quite sure what the -- I'm not sure I understand the nature of your question.
Research Division</strong> Sorry it's a little big picture.
Was just thinking on the -- for example the development pipeline would that be -- are you looking at that as increasing it to a percent of enterprise value? Or maybe for Mark any changes to kind of balance sheet targets? Well I guess with respect to development we don't have a target for that.
What we've told our development team is that we will try and make sure that we can fund all the good development that they can find.
Because of the additions of the Archstone land sites to our portfolio we will have higher than sort of normal run rates when development starts this year and next although at the present time I don't expect that to be a new ongoing run rate.
I wouldn't be surprised if we didn't go back to what had been our historical run rate of a $600 million or $700 million of development starts in any 1 year.
Our intention is to be I think a little more discriminating and selective on what we build and where we build it rather than thinking about volume.
Research Division</strong> And then any changes on any balance sheet targets? No we don't see the need to change those.
I mean we think the market concentrations that we have are appropriate.
The company's very diversified on the operations side.
We think running the company with about a 7.0 net debt-to-EBITDA number which is what it was before Archstone and what we're back to already is the right thing to do.
And fixed charge coverage of 2.5x when we take out or better take out cap interest.
So we think the company is where it should be and we don't expect to change that.
Our next question comes from Andrew Schaffer from Sandler O'Neill.
So I was wondering for this year and last if you can give a gross or a percentage of assets of how many of the properties have property tax reassessments? Well I guess I would say for this year -- just kind of looking at the numbers right now.
By market? Yes.
So this year this will be kind of the growth percent by market over 2012.
Arizona was a plus 2%.
California was up 5.7%.
Colorado blended 12%...
I was actually referring to -- sorry is it...
Pardon? Sorry.
Actually just total amount of property not actually per market.
Just the actual gross amount of your asset base that you had property tax reassessments this year and last.
No I just -- we just don't...
We don't [indiscernible] Yes yes.
Okay it's fine.
And secondly in regards to your cap rate spread widening by 10 basis points I believe from what you said earlier I guess that means that the dispositions are requiring higher yields and rather than the acquisition cap rates expanding a little bit.
Well I guess we gave you a 100 basis point spread in February and we're 110 today.
And a lot of that is probably just the mix of assets that ultimately will be sold.
But I'll tell you we were generally right on top of the number of the disposition cap rate we said we'd achieve and pretty close to the volume.
So I mean that's just rounding error.
Our next question comes from Michael Salinsky from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave -- probably a question for David Santee.
Can you talk a little bit about the performance of the Archstone portfolio in the quarter how that compares to -- how that compared to underwriting? And then also can you talk about leases signed in the quarter on a blended basis probably in the quarter for the quarter how that compared kind of versus the second quarter of last year? So looking at blending rents how much are they down kind of on a year-over-year basis if you're just kind of looking at a snapshot that was in the quarter for the quarter? Okay.
Let's see I'll start with Archstone.
I mean for the quarter we are -- all of the markets continue to perform exactly as we expected.
We pretty much underwrote most of the Archstone properties just as we had underwritten any other acquisition in the respective markets.
So the real income -- I mean on a year-to-date basis we're 1% ahead of our revenue underwriting.
And that trend continued into the second quarter.
Keep in mind really the second quarter was the first really full quarter of stabilized numbers.
On the expense side I mean we just -- when I look at the numbers I mean basically every category is below our underwriting whether it's leasing and advertising payroll maintenance you name it.
Every category is well below our expectations and where expenses are basically 19% below our budget through June.
On the blended our blended -- I don't necessarily have last year's blended because the portfolio has changed dramatically.
But our blended number for Q2 was -- a combined increase was 1.9%.
But more importantly for Q1 of 2013 it was 0.1%.
So does that kind of answer your question? LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
The [indiscernible] that answers the question pretty well.
The second question probably more for David.
When you think about the capital plan and everything for the back half of the year what's -- and the new numbers what are you guys assuming in terms of development starts? And also just in terms of the existing projects how much escalation are we seeing in construction costs? Well as I said we have the potential.
I'm not sure that we'll get it all done.
But we have the potential to begin as many as $800 million more this year to get to $1 billion.
Again I'm not sure that we'll get it all started.
We don't start it this year believe me a lot of that will start early next year.
And then with respect to construction costs it's different across different markets.
They certainly have increased.
We're seeing kind of flattening a very little growth in the kind of Boston and the D.C.
metro area.
And most other markets this year we think they're rising 2% to 3% 4% except in the Bay Area where we're seeing increases of plus 10%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Then finally any update you can provide on kind of your thinking on the extension option from some of the Archstone debt that was taken where you extended the -- extend the maturities out there and kind of what the rate would if you took the extension would be? Mike it's Mark Parrell.
So we're working on that right now.
We'll be able to give you a pretty formal report in October.
I mean the good news is that whatever the sort of prepayment penalty is that gets put into that ends up offsetting to some extent.
I mean the prepayment currently is getting smaller as rates go up.
So I think it's a rate that's probably in the 6s somewhere right now and probably will stay somewhere in the 6s.
Because again as rates go up the prepayment penalty goes down and vice versa.
So I'm not sure that even if rates change between now and October I'm going to report to you a much different number than something in the 6s.
It's just a matter of how we work the extension in the bargain option with Fannie Mae and those are all details we're working on right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> If you take the extension does it wipe away the mark-to-market benefit? Probably not.
But we'll go through the accounting with you when we go through it in October because it can be fairly involved.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Jeff Pell [ph] from Goldman Sachs.
Just to go back to the share buyback that you mentioned in your release and on the call this morning you have an undrawn line of credit and about $152 million of cash.
I'm just curious what conditions would have to be met for repurchase to benefit your cost of capital? Well the stock would need to be a lot cheaper than Main Street real estate values.
Again I just want to make it clear that these were just capacity.
These were just options that we have provided ourselves to take advantage of should we want to down the road.
We have no intention of executing or using any of them in the near term and not use either of these options in the -- over last year or so.
So we have bought stock back in the past and at levels below -- a lot less than where we are today.
And we won't hesitate to do it in the future.
But a lot of things have to happen with respect to the between Main Street values and real estate values.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you sir.
We appear to have no further questions at this time.
Please continue with any further points you wish to raise.
I want to thank you all for your time and attention today.
Look forward to seeing many of you in September if not before.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That concludes today's Equity Residential 2Q '13 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Equity Residential Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Thursday October 31 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Lilly.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's third quarter 2013 results.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; David Santee our Chief Operating officer; and Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of such an event.
And now I'll turn it over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Last night we reported operating results for the third quarter and first 9 months of the year which were very much in line with our expectations.
We also provided guidance for the entire year for same-store revenue growth that was right on our original numbers of 4.4%; for same-store expenses that will come in at 3.3% the high end of our original expectations as our worst fears about real estate tax increases came true; and same-store NOI of 5.1% a bit below our original midpoint due to these higher expenses.
As expected San Francisco Denver and Seattle continued to lead the way with very impressive quarterly and year-to-date performance.
And as we discussed on our last call in late July new supply in Washington D.C.
is beginning to impact our numbers.
2013 has been a tremendous year for Equity Residential and we're very pleased with the exceptional portfolio we created and with our operating results thus far this year.
We remained focused on core coastal markets and expect that with the benefit favorable demographics and the high cost of single-family housing in our markets to produce very good revenue and FFO for years to come.
And last night we also provided guidance for same-store revenue growth for next year of 3% to 4%.
And note that our same-store set of 2014 will include the nearly 18 500 units that we acquired in the Archstone transaction.
Not surprisingly our revenue growth estimates for next year are impacted significantly by having nearly 19% of our 2014 same-store revenue coming from the Washington D.C.
market which we expect to produce slightly negative revenue growth next year.
More importantly however we expect many of our other markets to continue to deliver strong above trend revenue growth in 2014.
To take you through what we're seeing across our markets today and how we're thinking about next year I'll turn the call over to our Chief Operating Officer David Santee.
Thank you David.
Before I jump into preliminary 2014 expectations I'd like to briefly discuss our Q3 operating results that when combined with our year-to-date performance puts us exactly where we thought we would be when we gave full-year guidance last October.
As reported last night our Q3 revenue growth of 4.1% was a result of continued strong fundamentals across all of our markets.
Occupancy of 95.7% for the quarter was down 20 basis points year-over-year.
However this is more about our higher-than-we-would-have-preferred-occupancy last year and entering this year's peak leasing season in a position of greater strength.
Year-to-date our occupancy is 10 basis points above plan and increased 10 basis points sequentially which creates a solid foundation going into Q4.
Renewals in Q3 remained strong averaging 5.4% and continue to be driven by the Northwest markets with San Francisco Seattle and Denver all realizing achieved renewal rates that were above Q2 results at 9% 7.5% and 7.4% respectively.
Forward-looking renewals for October and November achieved to-date results remained above 5% for the entire same-store portfolio.
Apartment turnover was down 30 basis points for the quarter and 20 basis points year-to-date as pure residents moved out due to price and/or renewal increases.
Move-outs due to home-buying for the quarter increased 90 basis points year-over-year consistent with prior quarters representing an incremental change of only 87 move-outs across the entire portfolio.
As discussed last quarter both inter- and intra-property transfers remained 11% higher year-to-date representing a much higher resident retention than the apartment turnover statistics might represent.
Base rent increases quarter-over-quarter were 2.1% and were greatly influenced by a decline in Washington D.C.
rents of 3.2%.
However based on how we see the market today we would not expect Washington D.C.
revenue to turn negative on a quarter-over-quarter basis until midyear.
As renewals were a positive 2.6% for October and are expected to be positive for quite some time.
Base rent pricing leaders continue to be San Francisco Seattle and Denver.
And we would expect those 3 markets to be our top 3 revenue growth markets again in 2014.
Expenses continue to be a very short story and it's all about real estate taxes.
The aggressive actions of states and municipalities are unprecedented.
Both rate and value increases are occurring simultaneously as real estate taxes always lagged value creation.
Historically value increases would be offset by lower tax rates but this is not the case for 2013.
We now expect to end the year near the high end of our expense guidance.
However it's important to note that excluding real estate taxes our year-to-date expense growth would amount to only 1.3%.
A testament to our continued focus and leverage of the Archstone assets which continue to perform in line with expectations For comparison the Archstone portfolio revenue growth is 4.5% year-to-date and sequentially 1.3% essentially in the same zip code as the EQR portfolio.
As you drill down to the market and submarket results specific property anomalies account for the slight differences versus our same-store portfolio.
We remain extremely pleased with the results of our integration and I can confidently say that we have put that behind us some time ago and have been operating as one company for quite a while.
Now I'll provide a little color on our preliminary 2014 revenue guidance.
First as we announced in our release we will include the same-stores and communities for full year 2014 creating a same-store portfolio of approximately 101 820 apartments.
Looking at the new market mix going forward we will arrive at a guidance range of 3% to 4% by category raising our markets into 3 buckets of revenue growth.
The first bucket continues to be filled with the Northwest markets that should produce combined 2014 revenue growth in excess of 5% driven by strong embedded growth and thus far minimal to no market disruption due to new supply.
Seattle continues to remain resilient after receiving and absorbing over 10 000 new units in the past 12 months with solid revenue growth and current year-to-date occupancy running 10 basis points above 2012.
The second bucket includes markets where revenue growth would average 3.5% which include all other markets excluding D.C.
These markets represent solid levels of embedded growth and continuing strong fundamentals with slightly elevated levels of new deliveries.
Our core markets most impacted by new deliveries would be downtown Boston Los Angeles and South Florida with downtown Boston receiving the blunt of head-to-head new competition.
L.A.
and Orange County continue their slower than expected path to recovery but still have plenty of runway for outsized revenue growth in the future.
And then the final bucket representing almost 19% of total income is the Washington D.C.
Metro in which our revenue growth model assumes a full-year 2014 revenue decline of 1%.
If we were to exclude D.C.
from our 2014 revenue projections our most likely outcome would produce full-year 2014 revenue growth in excess of 4%.
While we have not finalized our 2014 expense expectations for the new same-store portfolio we will experience another year of outsized real estate tax increases.
However we expect significant reductions to property management cost and minimal growth across all other categories that will result in a range that could be similar to 2013.
To sum it up the continuation of solid fundamentals will drive revenue growth well above historical trend across many of our markets.
Core controllable operating expenses should remain in check.
Resident turnover continues to trickle down.
Rent growth for lease renewals achieved remain above 5%.
Same-store base rent growth of 3.5% versus same week last year and today's occupancy of 95.8% creates a solid foundation of performance as we close out the year and turn our eyes to 2014.
Great.
Thank you David.
On the transaction side as noted in the press release last night we've sold $4.36 billion of assets through the first 9 months of the year and expect to sell 1 or 2 additional assets in the fourth quarter which will bring us to $4.4 billion of disposition for the full year and that compares to our most recent guidance of $4.1 billion.
The increase in guidance is the result of having sold one of our largest single properties this past quarter.
And that was in the Mission Valley submarket of San Diego where we sold 1 410 units in 62 buildings over 75 acres.
This asset traded for $360 million.
A confidentiality agreement prevents me from saying what the cap rate was on this deal but I can tell you it was well below the average cap rate than what we've sold everything else year-to-date.
While this was not a must-sale for us in any regard because we frankly we like Southern California a garden asset of this size and age is not terribly liquid and we thought it prudent to monetize our investment while there was a strong demand for Southern California assets and a continued low interest rate environment.
So we started our process that produced the bid that we thought made sense for us and are pleased that that bid delivered an unleveraged IRR of nearly 12% -- 12% over a 16-year holding period.
Other asset sales continued our market exits from Tacoma Phoenix and Atlanta.
In a very busy quarter on the development side of our business with 3 starts totaling $366 million bringing our year-to-date starts to nearly $500 million.
We also began pre-leasing 4 projects and during the quarter we sold 2 land sites.
In addition to the $500 million of starts through the first 9 months of the year we have 4 deals totaling nearly $800 million that could start very soon.
What doesn't start in the fourth quarter this year will likely start in the first quarter of next year; 2 of these sites are in San Francisco and 2 sites in Southern California.
The disclosure of our development business in last night's earnings release shows about $1.6 billion of active development currently underway and $262 million completed and in lease up.
I'll remind you that of this $1.9 billion 5 assets totaling about $300 million which came to us as part of the Archstone transaction are not considered core investments and we would expect to sell those following lease up and stabilization.
In addition to that which we've already started in those projects which we will start very soon we have 12 additional land sites and those are owned or controlled representing a pipeline of nearly 3 500 units in terrific urban core locations in our core markets with development costs of approximately $1.5 billion.
As a result our development starts would be elevated relative to historical run rates and could average close to $1 billion both this year and next.
I'm happy to say 100% of which will be totally self-funded with free cash flow disposition proceeds or use of our $2.5 billion credit facility.
Going forward my expectation is that by 2015 our starts will be more in the range of $500 million to $750 million a year And with that I will now turn the call over to Mark Parrell.
Thank you David.
I want to take a few minutes this morning to describe the changes we made to normalize the FFO and some of our other guidance for the full year and give you some color on our recent capital markets activities.
For the year we have provided a revised normalized FFO guidance range of $2.83 per share to $2.85 per share.
This is slightly higher than the guidance we gave you in July and it's pretty much right on target with the guidance we gave back in February.
The improvement since our July guidance is due to the loan payoff that occurred on October 1 as well as the new loan closing and additional partial loan payoff we expected to have this quarter both of which are described in the press release.
While these activities triggered substantial prepayment penalties in the fourth quarter they also lowered fourth quarter interest expense and other financing costs.
Moving to another guidance matter we increased our annual G&amp;A to $63 million which was up about $16 million from 2012.
The increase is driven primarily by Archstone-related and other onetime items.
These costs are specific to 2013 and will not be part of our normal run rate level of G&amp;A.
We anticipate 2014 G&amp;A to be substantially lower than 2013 likely in the low $50 million range.
We are careful stewards of our shareholder's money and expect in 2014 to reestablish our customary low level of G&amp;A.
We've had -- certainly have had a busy few months on the capital market side.
As you saw in the release we are in the process of repaying approximately $1.8 billion in GSE debt all in a single quarter and refinancing $800 million of this debt with a life insurance company.
Let me take a moment to give you a few highlights.
About 1 month after we received the additional disposition proceeds we repaid a $963.5 million secured loan that we had assumed as part of the Archstone transaction.
This loan was set to mature on November 2014 and carried a cash interest rate of 5.88% and a GAAP interest rate of 3.45% and the GAAP rate is lower because it's impacted by the amortization of the Archstone debt premium.
While selling additional assets is still dilutive compared to the 3.45% GAAP rate I just mentioned we certainly we're able to lessen normalized FFO dilution by lowering interest expense and we're able to address a near-term debt maturity.
In other words as a cash management matter it was a better deal to incur the prepayment penalty and deploy this cash than to hold it and earn nothing until we could prepay this debt at par in 2014.
We also took out to bid a pool of 13 former Archstone properties which are tax-protected assets and on which we are required to maintain secured debt.
Currently these 13 assets and several other assets are encumbered by a $1.27 billion GSE loan that matures in 2017 and carries a cash interest rate of 6.26% and a GAAP interest rate of 3.58% and again the GAAP rate is lower because of the amortization of the Archstone debt premium.
The interest by life insurance companies in the GSEs in refinancing these prime urban assets will be very strong.
The bids we obtained from the life insurance companies was substantially superior to pricing available at that time from the GSEs while CMBS lenders were not competitive at all in our process.
After this exhausted process we committed to do an $800 million secured loan with a large life insurance company.
The loan will have a term of 10 years will be interest-only and will carry a fixed interest rate of 4.21%.
The proceeds from this loan will be used to pay off $825 million of the $1.27 billion of secured loan.
The approximately $440 million balance will remain outstanding and continue to mature in November 2017 and continue to carry a cash interest rate of 6.26% and a GAAP rate of 3.58%.
The prepayment of these 2 loans will result in a cash prepayment penalty of approximately $150 million and an earnings and FFO charge of $43 million.
The charge will not impact normalized FFO.
While this is certainly a substantial sum of money we see the net economic cost to us as much less.
Niemann is effectively paying a substantial portion of the prepayment penalty here in the form of the reduced purchase price we paid in the Archstone transaction we're assuming this above market debt.
Also we were able to benefit from the bargain extension option that we have previously discussed with you which was granted to us as part of the Archstone loan assumption process.
After netting these contributions from third parties prepaying this loan and incurring the penalty now equates to a breakeven refinance rate in 2017 of less than 4%.
Besides the economic value for the company of this financing activity the company also received some important other risk and debt management benefits.
We lowered our outside debt maturities in 2017 from $2.2 billion to $1.35 billion and significantly extended the weighted average maturity of our debt to almost 7 years.
Also when the prior GSE loan matured in 2017 these assets would need to be refinanced with secured debt or very substantial tax protection costs to the company would have been triggered.
So dealing with it now and putting its risks behind us seemed prudent.
We also established a valuable new channel for sourcing secured debt.
And best of all we locked in a great rate on the last piece of the Archstone transaction capital structure.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Lilly to compile questions for the question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> In terms of same-store revenue growth next year at 3% to 4% while it's a deceleration from this year the absolute growth rate remains historically strong.
Without giving guidance but looking over the next few years how long do you expect growth to remain above historical averages? Well it's tough to sort of say but we believe strongly that with the markets that we are now operating in these urban core markets and as we look at the demographic picture the cost of single-family housing in these markets which is a significant multiple more than average across the country look at what's happening to what we think jobs are going to be going forward we think that we are in a position to having a nice and extended run of very strong performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you continue to sell assets in the market.
How is the transaction marketing cap rates change with the increase in rates? Really not much at all.
We think that -- we continued to see maybe slow increases in values of kind of core core-plus products and have not seen much of any diminution in value of a lesser quality product.
This is a very very -- it remains a very strong demand for both classes.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then given what your stock is trading relative to net asset value what are your thoughts around share purchases relative to other capital allocation decisions? Well I guess I can tell you that having acquired $1 billion or so of stock back it's something that is certainly part of our calculus and will remain part of that.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Bragg of Green Street Advisors.
LLC</strong> You break out that same-store revenue growth outlook into the 2 buckets for us your legacy portfolio that same-store portfolio versus the Archstone assets? We didn't break those out for 2014.
I mean -- but based upon performance there really shouldn't be any material difference.
I will say that when you look at the first part of next year and you look back at the impact to the operations on the Archstone portfolio just as a result of the announcement I think that in the near term or at least for Q1 we would expect the Archstone properties to do a little better and play catch up from last year.
But by the end of the year their role isn't a material difference.
And so the Archstone portfolio is overweight D.C.
but there's a catch-up opportunity there that will cause it to perform pretty closely to the legacy portfolio? I guess our comments Dave are sort of market by market submarket by submarket.
So certainly because of the overweight of D.C that portfolio would underperform.
But relative to the Archstone assets in D.C.
versus EQR or in Seattle or any other market we would expect those to perform relatively -- comparably but for the little bit of pickup we may have in the first quarter in the Archstone portfolio.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So you've undergone this transaction the significant amount of dispositions that you've executed on yet the stock trades at as wide of a discount as it has in a long time.
Can you talk about what steps you are considering taking to close that discount? Maybe elaborate on your last answer if possible? Or any misperceptions that you think might be out there that are driving this? Well I guess there's nothing more to say about my prior answer Dave.
I think we've demonstrated ourselves as the company willing to acquire stock we have in the past.
And again it would certainly be part of our calculus.
With respect to just pricing I can tell you that our team everyday sees the kinds of properties that we own and we'll happily own for a long time.
Trading today in markets certainly in the 4s and in some markets maybe even in the 3s.
And so at EQR trading today kind of in the mid-5s.
I think it's quite an opportunity relative towards [indiscernible] trading on a one-off basis out there.
So our focus today is just going to be execute execute execute.
Again we're happy with the assets we've got.
We think they'll remain I think an extended period of very solid performance and the stock price will take care of itself.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Last question is given the size of the company today and now that you've had time to digest the Archstone assets how can we think about Equity Residential's opportunities to move the needle via external growth going forward? So I'll tell you that we remain a company that has I think the capacity to be very opportunistic and the intent of being very opportunistic.
We'll continue to sell assets where we believe we ought to and reallocate that capital into assets in our core markets.
We will continue to have a development business.
As I said earlier we'll be a $500 million to $750 million of start per year business.
And we'll again remain very opportunistic.
I think we demonstrated that in 2009 and 2010 and we'll be prepared to do that again.
We certainly have got rehabs going across our portfolio that we think incrementally will help repositioning assets across the portfolio.
But again it's -- for the time being I think it's execute execute execute.
We've got a couple of billion dollars of starts this year and next year.
And also I think that we've got our hands full and you can expect us to have our nose to the grindstone on those particular subjects.
Our next question comes from the line of David Toti with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly what are your expectations for the depth of the reversal in D.C.? Do you see this as being sort of a stark decline? More of a gradual sort of prolonged soft patch? If you had to sort of like think about that market in the next 24 months what does it look like from a revenue perspective? Well I'll let David say a few comments in just a moment.
Clearly there an awful lot of units coming online.
Certainly there remains an extraordinary amount of dysfunction in D.C.
And yet if you look at third parties' expectations of household formation in that market over the next few years we believe that there will -- these units will absorb.
I mean it won't be pretty maybe getting there but we think that there will be a lot of incremental demand going forward.
I guess I would add that when you look at the distribution of all these units across the metro area certainly a lot of those are downtown.
When you start looking at deliveries into 2015 they spread out more to the burbs which would not be a great as impact to our portfolio.
When you add in the Archstone portfolio to next year many of those communities that we acquired at Connecticut Avenue are virtually insulated from development.
So I think it'll just come down to the timing of the deliveries in conjunction with what's going on with the politics in D.C.
Another benchmark we just started our lease-up Belle Pre in Alexandria.
We are leasing new units at our pro forma net effective rents and our pace of leases is very robust.
I mean the pace of lease-up is exceeding expectation.
That can be said for many of our new developments.
So when you look back over the last 24 months base rents have been relatively flat.
And then if you go back to 2007 2008 in the downturn renewals kept exploding and renewals will offset some of that negative rent increase.
And I don't think at the end of the day it will be as bad as people think.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then my other question David is you've obviously been net sellers for some time.
You talked about that very specifically and maybe expected it for a bit.
At what point does that reverse? Is it the sort of the potential for an uplift in cap rates? Is it the completion of the disposition strategy? Is it something external that would cause you to reverse and sort of think that there were more opportunities in the market for buying? How do you think about that going into what could be a higher cap rate environment? Again we have -- all of our acquisitions David have been self funded.
So it's really -- do we see opportunities instead of arbitrage what we can sell versus what we can buy? In fact I'll tell you that we're working on a deal right now in Southern California that we think we can sort of acquire at a cap rate very similar to the cap rate at which we can sell something that we think is out in the Valley.
So I mean those -- that's the kind of trading I think we'll do.
But as I've said in my -- one of my previous answers we'll remain very opportunistic.
And if there are opportunities to buy and frankly they're maybe in Washington D.C.
for instance.
I don't think we'd hesitate to take advantage of those opportunities.
Our next question comes from the line of Jana Galan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Did you notice any impact on the D.C.
portfolio from the government shutdown in October? Really absolutely none.
We had made arrangements to work with the government employees should it continue and waived late fees and what have you.
But really we saw nothing that we could -- nothing that was tangible.
But that market has been sort of operating under uncertainty of the sequestration and everything else that's going on.
So I mean it didn't add anything more than I think the weight that that market had been carrying for quite some time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then David if you can comment on the performance of A versus B assets in your portfolio in the third quarter particularly in the markets that saw the increases in supply? I don't know that we've seen any material differences.
I think again it comes down to location location location.
One of our best performing assets in downtown D.C.
#1500 Mass is a 50-year old building.
So I can't point to anything that would lead us to think that there's that much difference in the asset class.
Research Division</strong> And does that kind of hold also for your view for the 2014 guidance? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Rob Stevenson with Macquarie.
David what's -- with 20% of the portfolio exposure in D.C.
now I mean is that bordering the upper line -- upper boundary of your tolerance for any market concentration? Or how do you think about that? I would say that on an average long-term basis that probably is at that upper limit.
Yes Rob.
Okay.
And then when you're thinking about the -- going through the development pipe -- the development starts over the next couple of years where's the bulk of those starts going to wind up being? And then are there any sort of ultra big size deals like the Park Avenue asset? We've got 4 sites in San Francisco -- actually 5 sites in San Francisco so that would be a pretty good market share.
We've also got a couple of sites in D.C.
that are kind of on ice at the present time.
We've got a very nice site the Howard Hughes site down in Southern California.
And I think that's generally what you'll see.
And then we've got -- and we certainly have some things in Seattle -- in some Downtown Seattle and some South Lake Union sites in Seattle.
Okay.
And are any of these like I said ultra -- very large assets at the end of the day especially in San Francisco? No.
They're in the plus -- several are in the plus $200 million range yes.
If that's what you mean.
Yes.
I mean just trying to figure out what's -- when you're talking about $1 billion is that for starts? Or is that 10 type of...
Well our focus has been really urban core locations not suburban but urban core locations.
And those are by definition going to be a little more expensive assets.
And so you'll see us doing fewer starts but they are likely to be more expensive yes.
Okay.
And then just lastly was there any particular rationale for the '14 same-store revenue guidance now versus kind of January or in line with earnings like normal? A very good question and one that we talked about ourselves.
And I guess it came down to the fact that we believe that we had a pretty good handle on it a good view that our people across the country our systems our process and the experience that we've got gave us a good enough look at it that -- and when we have that we felt it was appropriate to share and that to sit on it for 90 days was not the right thing to do.
Our next question comes from the line from Ryan Bennett [ph] with Feldman and Associates.
Just staying on the lines of development real quick.
In terms of your start that you expect over the next year what's the current yield on developments based on current rents versus where cap rates are in these markets? Well in our sort of pipelines that million -- $1.5 billion or so of pipeline at current rents we think were low-5s to mid-6s and these are markets all day long that are in the 4s and some of these assets could trade in the high 3s on a stabilized basis [indiscernible].
Got it.
I appreciate the color there.
And then I appreciate all the color on D.C.
Just want to know the market that stood out.
I know you've been positive on New York in the past and then it seems like you got grouped into the middle bucket for next year.
Just curious if you've seen any pressure on your ability to push rents there recently or anything submarket specific in the New York region that may cause the incremental slowdown? This is David.
I mean certainly there are stronger pockets in New York.
But I think generally speaking we don't see any market-wide slowdown certainly as you'd move further away from Manhattan.
Revenue growth is not as robust.
Jersey City is less robust than Manhattan moving down Fairfield Connecticut.
And we -- so the activity is still in the urban core.
And one of the things that we really haven't seen this go around is the moving to Jersey City.
I mean historically when rents have elevated in Manhattan we see a pretty strong demand in Jersey City.
But we're not seeing this this go around.
Got it.
And then just -- I think you've mentioned the -- move outs due to rent increases was down in the quarter.
Was there a particular market trend in terms of where it maybe have been down further or increased in particular markets? Any trends there? On a quarter-over-quarter basis as an example Denver sticks out in my mind.
That was down -- compared to Q3 last year down 600 basis points.
I'm just kind of scanning the markets.
That's probably the most notable I would say.
Everything else is maybe 100 200 basis points.
Our next question comes from the line of David Harris with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let me have another crack at the share buyback question.
If I remember correctly you are amongst the most active of share buyback companies and your Chairman was very vocal about being capital -- good capital discipline.
I applaud you and him for that action.
If I think back then was your decision to buyback principally driven by discount to net asset value? And how are you thinking that that might be any different in today's environment? Well I guess it was.
I mean we just looked at what we thought the fundamental underlying value was of our assets and looked at what that was relative to our stock price and thought that the stock market was trading those assets at a significant discount.
And again as I've mentioned several times already today we own assets today that there is an extraordinary demand for by institutional investors that are paying cap rates in the low 4s and perhaps even high 3s yet our stock today is trading at an implied cap rate that is representative of a lot of the assets we've sold in commodity markets over the past 9 months.
So again we pay a great deal of attention to that we pay a great deal of attention to that as we buy assets as we start new development transactions.
So I'll just -- not sure what more I can say on that matter except that we do paid a close attention to it.
And as you noted we were amongst the most aggressive back when an opportunity presented itself some time ago.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
You have re-uped your buyback and your share issuance programs after the Archstone deal closed.
I think it was around second quarter.
Has the board reviewed capital allocation in particular with regard to share buybacks recently? Well I guess the board reviews most everything when we gather on a quarterly basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> When was the last quarterly meeting? In September.
LLC Research Division</strong> September okay.
And then another question here on Archstone.
Now you've got your arms a little bit more around the portfolio.
Is there any thought to revisiting corporate leasing and condo activity again as we look forward? I guess I'll let David address the corporate leasing side.
On the condo side there has not been.
But I do believe that we will see good condo demand for the kinds of properties we own in a not-too-distant future.
Now what action we take as a result of that remains to be seen.
I would not expect us to play in the manner in which we did back in the early -- the middle 2000s around what we did in Florida and Arizona but I do believe we're certainly seeing interest of condominium people looking for land sites.
We're seen more potential demand there.
So I think that that is something that we'll see as I said in the very near future.
Now with respect to corporate leasing David? With respect to corporate leasing spending my first 10 years in this industry at Oakwood Apartments taking corporate leases feels good when they come in but there's a long tail when they move out.
And one of our goals over the past 12 months is to continue to add more strategy around when and where and how many corporate apartments we take.
It certainly does not fit into our branding expectations of creating long-term loyal customers.
And so I think we have been trying to wean ourselves off that drug so to speak and we'll continue to evaluate on a transaction-by-transaction basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> What do -- what these corporate leases represent as a percentage of the portfolio today? In our portfolio today? Gosh I mean again you have to kind of define what you mean by corporate leases.
There are many -- in New York we have lots of missions and types of apartments like that that have been with us for 10 years or so.
So it's very -- it's not as easy just to say we have this many corporate units.
But we're definitely trying to get out of the short-term block of business type corporate function especially in the world -- or the era of Airbnb.
Airbnb is creating some very unique challenges for owners in especially in New York City and Seattle.
And that's something that we have to keep in front of us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean if we use broad terms of definition are we talking 2% or 3%? I would say probably closer to 4%.
Our next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson with BMO Capital Markets.
Mark did you say I don't remember -- I don't know if you said it explicitly but did you say that you get -- you breakeven for the $150 million of prepayment costs in 2017 with lower -- assuming the lower interest rates? Rich so what we did is we took a look at what rate in 2017 we would need to refinance the debt at.
The remaining debts.
Yes.
I kind of regret the $800 million being refinanced now at 4.2%.
And that rate is a little less than 4%.
So if prevailing rates where 4.25% and higher we would -- this decision we just made will be a good one financially for us.
And if it was -- if rates were 3% then it wouldn't be.
But we did think that that was a good way to kind of hedge out.
That's a big exposure for us in '17 we have a lot of debt due in that year.
We also had all these other things we were trying to balance out.
So that was the analysis.
Okay.
And then do you think that this is kind of the last of the kind of reset activities that you might have related to capital markets transactions for Archstone? Or will there be more to come? No I think we're done.
I mean the important message to kind of get across here is we needed to get our hands on $9 billion of capital to fund Archstone and we did $4 billion plus of that through the dispositions that were right on -- on the numbers we thought right on NAV.
We raised $3 billion through the equity market and $1 billion directly and $2 billion through Lehman and we think that blended price was good.
And we needed to make the debt stack make sense.
So that other $3 billion or so that we assumed had a duration Rich of like 2 years.
And so we had a bunch of debt on assets we hopped on 10 or 20 years that has a duration of 2.
And by doing what we did this quarter we have fixed that and we can move forward.
And I think the capital structure is balanced.
Okay.
Turning to the 3% to 4% revenue growth.
Can I just -- can you characterize that for me? Is that kind of what you would get next year from like a loss-to-lease perspective if nothing changed in the markets and so kind of like a static view? But if market rents increased that number would go up? Or is that a view of what -- how markets might behave incrementally next year as well? So Rich this is David.
So we don't use loss-to-lease.
Basically we look at the value of our rent roll in December and pretty much multiply that times 12 and divide it by 2013 and that gives us our embedded growth.
We're going to assume that occupancy remains for the most part steady.
And so that embedded number is 1.9%.
So if the value of our rent roll remains constant all through next year all other variables are constant then we do a 1.9%.
As -- beyond that it's really a market by market looking at our rent trend reports kind of estimating what we would expect in rent growth based upon what we've seen this year and what we expect from deliveries and just general strength within the market.
And then we take a percentage of that number to get a market-by-market number.
And then it's just a matter of weighting that -- weighting all those numbers and throwing them into our model.
Okay.
So if you said that 1.9% number earlier I apologize.
But do you have a conservative factor baked into that range? Or is that really -- you expect to hit 3.5% next year as you see it today? Well I guess the only way that I could answer that is that if you look back over the past 2 3 4 years we've kind of been dead on in our guidance -- in the midrange of our guidance.
Okay.
And then just looking at this recurring trend and this might -- I don't know if this is just a reclassification issue but I've noticed property management cost seems -- breaking at the same store has been on the decline this year versus last year.
What's the reason for that? It's down 9.8% this year.
Well I'm sorry you're talking about prop management cost closure or prop management cost split between same store? I want to make sure I understand your question.
Yes I'm looking at Page 15 of the supplemental.
And historically property management cost this year had been down by anywhere from 4% to 10% relative to last year.
Basically the oversight costs district management and all that kind of stuff.
I'm just wondering what...
Yes these are the centralization and scaling initiatives that David Santee has led here at EQR.
And it has gone very well for us and we hope to continue to harvest some of those benefits.
I mean we're just much more concentrated now and all the back-office functions that lead into property management has been kind of evaluated and resized to support that more concentrated portfolio.
So that's what we're seeing.
I guess my question is how do you expect that to trend going into future years? Well that's going to be harder to trend at the same rate because as we exit markets and are able to exit the infrastructure of those markets that's where a lot of that is also rolling off right? We managed to bring these Archstone assets on -- $9 billion of Archstone assets sell $4.4 billion of assets and we'll have fewer people running that larger portfolio.
So no way we'll be able to sort of see the same improvement or same year-over-year change as we've seen initially.
I have every expectation that David and his team will continue to squeeze as much out of it as they possibly can and you certainly would not expect to see this same kind of run rate.
Do you think there's more synergy type of opportunity left? I assume there is going into 2014 with the Archstone investment? Well yes.
I mean we -- our focus for the next couple of years will most likely be on the service side.
So there remains opportunities in consolidating operations at the property level.
And in addition we did make some more senior-level changes in the property management organization in the past month that will contribute to below-average growth in property management cost for next year as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Let me first pick up from Rich on the Archstone.
In touring with us I mean your field folks over the past several months a number of them noted that there was some immediate pickup in Archstone where they were just able to do things much better and be ahead of expectations and yet the commentary that you guys provided was sort of that Archstone was in line with expectations.
So is this sort of just a difference between sort of at the local -- sort of very local level versus what you guys see from the Chicago level? Or is it that initially there was a bunch of pickup low-hanging fruit but then as the portfolio became integrated over the course of the year that most of that low-hanging fruit sort of went away and now it's basically in line with what you're expecting? So this is David.
I guess long answer to the question in 2 directions.
First a lot of the savings that we've realized were accomplished as soon as we plugged those properties into our portfolio and just our operating process.
On the other hand we did bring over all of the Archstone employees meaning we offered everyone a job we gave time -- we gave people time to integrate we've made more selected personnel decisions and that took from March until the end of July to accomplish that.
But again that was underwritten as well.
So we always have higher expectations on our budgets.
And I think for the most part I don't think there's a big difference in what our people on-site are saying and what we're believing as well.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question just goes back to David Harris's questions on the share buybacks.
If we look at the share buyback and basically rewarding shareholders from a different perspective let's just sort of assume that the REITs are what they are I mean you guys are not alone in trading below NAV.
I mean you can go to other sectors and everyone's got a similar issue.
The buybacks in theory should help but in practicality whether they move the stock or not there may not be a direct link.
Versus if you guys just increase the dividend even if the stocks remain as is at least shareholders are getting more money today more cash flow.
So you guys have an AFFO yield of about 3.5 you could I mean -- sorry dividend yield of 3.5.
You could have -- you have an AFFO yield of close to a 5.
Why not just increase the dividend and say -- and reward shareholders for sticking around and holding the stock versus the stock buyback not that you guys are necessarily doing it right now but a stock buyback where you're hoping the market reacts but the market may not react and current shareholders may not be necessarily any better off because they're still getting the same dividend and maybe the market just for whatever reason doesn't want to recognize the discount to NAV that is demonstrated by selling assets and buying back stock? Well that was a mouthful.
I guess it was an awful lot of theory about -- dividend theory about whether or not you're creating value by giving your -- distributing more to your shareholders or not.
We'll just put that aside.
We believe that the right way to run the railroad is the dividend policy that we've got right now which is to distribute 65% of our normalized FFO and to retain some capital for -- fund our development for incremental investment for a rainy day what have you.
We think that's the right way to do that dividend.
We are -- we will be making a presentation to our board at our next meeting about changing the manner in which we pay that dividend.
Again this is all subject to the board approval.
But thinking about paying that dividend more pro rata across the year as opposed to smaller payments in the first 3 quarters and then a true-up in the fourth quarter.
But I guess I'll just say as I said again we certainly appreciate and recognize the discount of what we're trading today.
I think we've taken the appropriate actions in the past and demonstrated that we think that way and we won't hesitate to do that going forward.
We think that's the right thing to do.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No I mean I just said because you guys can fund developments through dispositions and as you indicated the development pipeline will be coming down.
So there's -- it would seem like the company -- the free cash flow generation is definitely manageable.
And if there's less need of it hence thinking that maybe it could just go back to more to shareholders.
But yes we look forward to the next board meeting I guess.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Nick Yulico on the line.
Turning back to the revenue guidance for next year.
I was hoping you could provide some of the major factors that get you to the bottom middle or top end of that range? I mean is the big sensitivity where job growth settles up? This is David.
I mean we've never really factored in job growth.
We build our expectations from the ground up what's going on the neighborhood of our communities.
Certainly if we had an environment of more robust job creation we would feel much better about that especially for 2014 considering that will be the peak of new supply.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because I mean the reason I asked is because there's this feeling that there's pent-up household formation that could happen in this country but we're not creating enough jobs to get that household formation.
So it sounds like what you're saying is when you're looking at your guidance for next year you're basing it on what's going on in your market now where job growth at the national level has been anemic even if it's strong in the west.
So I'm wondering is that correct and that your sort of -- if job growth goes back above 200 000 a month on a national level does that mean that that's likely additive to revenue guidance -- revenue next year? I guess I would say that when we run the numbers we look out the next 12 months.
We either feel like there could be a catalyst or not.
And we kind of feel like there's not and that job growth will continue to run in the 150 000 range and anything above and beyond that will be favorable to our business.
And we'll get -- and then we'll help get the 3 million additional 20 or 30 year olds that are living with mom and dad out of the house and get those missing households back into the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> So that's not factored into guidance that's an added benefit? We look at the economies and sort of see it operating today not robust growth 150 000 or so jobs a month maybe 170 000 or so I guess what they've done year to date and just kind of roll that forward.
But we also do -- as David said we really look at this neighborhood by neighborhood and submarket by submarket and give our best guess.
And if -- let me tell you if we took 7.2 unemployment down to 6.5 and that's -- that job growth significantly changed yes that will be certainly be helpful on the upside and it sure would help in Washington D.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one other follow-up.
I think you said earlier that you categorize the Northwest as the market next year that would be above 5% revenue growth.
Specifically which cities are falling in the Northwest? And what is the percentage of NOI from the same store that's in that over 5% bucket next year? So that would be the combined results of Seattle San Francisco and Denver.
And if you want the same-store percentages I'll probably refer you to Page 9 where we're telling you what the portfolio looks like at 9/30/2013 not same store but in its totality because our total unit count same store as versus total units owned are going to be very similar.
So you could see that San Francisco there is going to be 12% or so of our next year same-store NOI for example.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Rosivach with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Jeff on the line for Andrew.
I'm just going back to D.C.
about 33% of our portfolio you bought from Archstone was in D.C.
by NOI.
And you've highlighted that D.C.
will be your weakest 2014 market.
Did the Archstone operating income meet your acquisition underwriting? Yes.
I mean I don't think we thought any differently about D.C.
when we underwrote the Archstone portfolio than we thought about our own.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> David on the current pipeline -- the development pipeline today where do you see yields coming in at? And how is that comparing to underwriting as you start leasing on a few of those? And then as we think about starts additionally in the back -- in the fourth quarter and into '15 where are yields penciling on that relative to recoverable acquisitions are today? Well again of our -- the products we have under construction -- let me back up.
What we have delivered and delivered recently has done very well and will meet or exceed our expectations.
And some of those deals are in the 8s okay? So those are the things that we would have bought very low land prices back in 2009 2010.
So those have probably exceeded our expectations and many of those are in the 8s.
What's under construction today so that which we will deliver very soon is in the mid-5s and some of those are even in the low 8s.
The pipeline so those being assets we have not yet started at current rents we think those are low-5s to mid-6s.
And again if one where to trend rents and again that's not a terrific science but we think some of those deals would stabilize in the mid-6s to also mid-8s.
And again as I noted we are in the market -- in the core markets today.
The kinds of quality of assets that we now own and operate in these core markets will trade in the mid-4s low-4s all day long and some of them probably even in the high 3s.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
Second question obviously as you've been going through the repositioning process disposition has been elevated.
As you think about dispositions for next year just in terms of sources and uses I mean what should be a normalized kind of run rate for recycling for EQR kind of going forward? And then just as a bookkeeping thing what was the -- where were the 2 land parcel sales? Were those legacy Archstone stuff? I guess with respect to the elevated levels of dispositions I can tell you that we are done.
We have for many years been selling $1 billion $1.5 billion maybe even $2 billion reallocating that capital into our core markets that have been doing so at cap rate spreads between 90 basis points 60 basis points as wide as 125.
That business is over.
What you'll see us do going forward is what I indicated -- we're working on L.A.
right now where we believe for the same cap rate we can sell an older garden property in the valley and reallocate that into a mid-rise property in a downtown.
So you'll see -- I don't know what the volume will be because it will be more a function of what's available and how we think we're going to fund it.
But you'll see the spread between what we buy and what we sell narrow considerably and it will be more tactical.
The larger sort of strategic work is done and it will just be more sort of local and more tactical.
The land sites we sold one was the legacy site that we've had for quite a while in Chino Hills in Southern California.
And then we sold an Archstone land site in which we had a 23% interest in the San Diego market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And finally David Santee if I missed this did you say where renewals went out for November and December? Let's see.
For November what they went at -- renewals went out for November at 7.4%.
And we achieved -- yes it's a little early to quote our November.
But we're already at 5%.
I mean when people get the lower increases they pretty much sign immediately.
So the closer we get to expiration date the numbers climb.
But for December we sent out a 7.9%.
And we have achieved a 4.3%.
But again that number will grow substantially.
LLC Research Division</strong> The typical moderation is about 100 125 basis points if I remember it correctly? Correct.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Michael Bilerman.
David Santee the 1.9% static number you gave heading into '14 what would that have been heading into '13 as a proportion of that 4.5% growth? It was a 2.3% if I remember correctly.
Research Division</strong> So as we think about '14 effectively in the guidance just probably a little bit lighter in terms of rent growth assumptions in '14 what will you have expected heading into '13 in explaining the change? I guess -- are you asking about '14 or...
Research Division</strong> Well I'm just trying to think about if you have -- when you're heading into 2013 you had 2.3% locked in of an 4.5% growth profile.
Now as we look towards '14 you have 1.9% set of a 3.5% growth profile.
The slight diminution has to come from your expectation on either turnover rents renewals new leases and how all that blends together.
Yes.
Well I mean a lot of it is just -- it's an entirely different portfolio with different weightings.
And I think I said earlier in the comments that Washington D.C.
will weigh down the portfolio.
So I think you have to kind of really look at it market by market and the contribution -- of percentage of revenue in each market and then the expected rate of change for next year.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any sort of details on looking at what your expectation is for renewals in '14 relative to what it was in '13 and whether that's playing a part or sort of what your expectation is for base rent increases versus for new leases versus renewals? Well we certainly -- I mean that's how we build our model.
So we certainly have expectations.
And a lot of those -- I mean renewals are pretty much a function of what we've accomplished this year and assuming that you will have rent growth next year at specified levels.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to come back to the share buyback just for I don't know the 5th time.
Is there any reason why -- well 2 parts.
One is there any reason why you haven't done it? You talked in September at a conference saying that the stock was one of the best options that you had but you hadn't bought any stocks since then.
So I don't know if it was a blackout or anything.
Is there any reason why you haven't done it yet? This company has done an extraordinary amount of very successful and very value-creating work this year.
And we've had to deal with a great deal of execution risk in getting the Archstone trade done.
And really that has been what our focus has been; making sure that we got the disposition done as we said at the prices that we had hoped to get the balance sheet restructuring that Mark has done putting us in a position where frankly we could consider such a thing.
And as I said before and hopefully we can put this matter to bed at least for this call that we will continue to consider going forward.
So we needed to get ourselves in a position Michael where we could do that.
Research Division</strong> And I assume just given the fact that you're on GGP's board and you're comfortable I assume of going direct to a shareholder and buying a block of stock that should factor into the calculus as well or not? I mean I can't say anything about that so I guess we'll leave it at that.
Research Division</strong> I mean I guess with that said would you be aggressive in going after Lehman and then saying look we're...
Michael Michael I don't know what more I can say on this particular matter.
So why don't we just leave it there? Research Division</strong> We'll move on okay.
Last one just expenses.
As you think -- as you look towards next year you talked about your worst fears on the real estate taxes coming true driving the expense growth to 3.3% for the year.
How should we think about the dynamics in '14 between taxes and all the other expenses which you did keep to only have 1.5% increase? How should we think about that trend line into '14? Well I think in my comments as I said when you do the calculus on a fixed handle [ph] real estate tax that being 35% of our total expense makeup and we -- we're going to assume that we have very minimal growth across all the other account lines with some savings in property management I don't -- I guess I would say next year looks very similar to this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay good call on changing the dividend policy.
Our next question comes from the line of Derek Bower with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick follow-up on guidance.
Could you quantify what the boost to 2014 same-store revenue growth would be from the rehab spend particularly on the Archstone portfolio? It's not enough to move that meter.
Our next question comes from the line of George Hoglund with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could give a little bit more color on the transaction environment in markets that have been seeing new supply and more specifically in Seattle where you've seen some of your competitors buy some of these newly constructed assets? Well as David I think said in his opening remarks Seattle has absorbed a lot of new units.
It's been one of our top performers and we expect to continue to be a top performer on the operating side.
And there continues to be a lot of demand by institutional investors for sort of core-plus and lesser-quality assets in that marketplace.
So I guess it's across every market in which we currently operate and we think the markets in which we no longer operate based upon what we've seen in selling a lot of assets and commodity markets there just remains very strong demand for good quality cash flowing assets like multi-family.
There are no further questions at this time.
Please continue with your closing remarks.
All right thank you very much Lilly.
Thank you all today.
But before we close the call I want to say a few quick words about our friend and colleague John Collins.
Well some of you may know but most of you may not know John has decided to retire after a distinguished 19-year career at Equity Residential.
During these last 19 years John has played a very important role in 80 earnings calls 40 NAREIT conferences and hundreds if not thousands of investor meetings across the country.
Today is John's last earnings call with us.
Next month will be his last NAREIT conference.
And so I ask you all please don't forget to say your farewells to John in San Francisco next month.
On behalf of everyone at Equity I will tell you we will miss John's wit and his wisdom as he transitions to life's next great adventure.
We thank him for his many contributions in making Equity Residential such a great and highly respected company.
Thank you John and thank you all in the call for your time today your interest in Equity Residential.
We'll see you in San Francisco.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Equity Residential Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Equity Residential's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded today February 5 2014.
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Sarah.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's Fourth Quarter 2013 Results and Outlook for 2014.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; David Santee our Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn it over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
As shown in the results we released night both the fourth quarter and full year 2013 ended up pretty much right on our original expectations.
Same-store revenue growth for the full year came in at 4.5%.
That was comprised of very strong revenue growth in the first quarter of 5.1% which weakened as we expected during the year and ended with still strong but moderating revenue growth of 4% in the fourth quarter.
Not surprisingly San Francisco Denver and Seattle continue to lead the way with Washington D.C.
bringing up the rear.
Also as we noted last summer real estate tax increases would come in well above our original expectations pushing same-store expense growth to the high end of our original guidance.
And all that resulted in year-over-year growth in net operating income of 5.0%.
So we're extremely pleased with the property performance delivered by our teams across the country because 2013 was no ordinary year in Equity Residential.
Our teams produced these results while at the same time seamlessly integrating $9 billion of new assets and handling nearly $4.5 billion of dispositions all at the same time.
So to everyone across the Equity platform we send our thanks and congratulations for what was an absolutely incredible year.
In last night's release we also confirmed our 2014 guidance for same-store revenue growth of 3% to 4%.
And note again that our same-store stat for the full year will include the nearly 18 500 units that we acquired in the Archstone transaction.
Not surprisingly our revenue growth estimates for next year are impacted significantly by having 18% of our revenue coming from the Washington D.C.
market which we expect to produce slightly negative revenue growth this year.
More importantly however we expect many of our markets to continue to deliver strong above-trend revenue growth in 2014.
And lastly I want to note that our 2014 guidance also calls for an increase in our normalized FFO of 8% at the midpoint of our range.
This is very significant because after many years of elevated levels of transaction activity as we work to reposition our portfolio and assets located in high-density urban markets along the coast a process that we believe was hugely NAV accretive for one that significantly diluted our normalized FFO growth each year.
Beginning 2014 the earnings dilution from this activity will significantly reduce.
And like the first 15 years of our life as a public company we expect that once again post-recurring normalized FFO and dividend growth in excess of our same-store NOI growth reflecting the benefits of both modest levels of leverage and the benefits of our size scale and our operating platform.
Now I'm happy to turn the call over to David Santee our Chief Operating Officer who will take you through what we are seeing across our markets today and how we're thinking about revenue and expense growth in 2014.
Thank you David.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'd like to provide color on our revenue and expense guidance for '14 give a brief overview across our core markets and let you know where we sit today.
During Q4 turnover continued to decline and net of intra-property transfers our full year 2013 turnover decreased 145 basis points to 50% from 51.45%.
Our added focus on minimizing Q4 lease expirations continues to pay off as our January move-outs showed a decline of 5% year-over-year.
Move-outs to buy homes generally continues to be back-page news as 2013 move-outs for this reason were 13% an increase of only 70 basis points or 202 more move-outs across 80 000 plus units.
Similar to 2013 we start the year from a solid foundation of pricing occupancy and exposure across most of our markets.
Today occupancy sits at 95% with a 7% exposure identical to same week last year with a net effect of new-lease pricing up 3.5% versus same week last year.
Renewal flows issued for January and February combined are identical to January and February last year albeit a different portfolio.
And we would expect to achieve renewal increases in excess of 5.5% for this period.
These early indicators coupled with improved job growth and consumer confidence lead us to believe that 2014 will be a solid year for Equity Residential.
However we are mindful of the potential impact from outside supply across most of our markets.
Our 2014 revenue guidance of 3% to 4% is muted by one constant thing: All roads to revenue growth for EQR lead to Washington D.C.
At 18% of total revenue and our assumption of 1% decline for full year 2014 D.C.
will shave approximately 80 to 100 basis points off of revenue growth for the entire same-store portfolio.
With expense guidance of 2% to 3% it's déjà vu all over again.
Real estate taxes representing 34% of total expense are estimated to grow at 5.25% which has improved from earlier estimates as a result of California limiting the tax factor to 1% for 2014 a very rare event.
The 2014 tax factor is the second lowest in 40 years and as a result it's also only the seventh time in 40 years.
Utilities accounting for 15% of total expense are expected to increase in excess of 7.5% as a result of outside percentage increases in natural gas commodity prices outside consumption of both gas and electric due to historically low temperatures and an ever-increasing cost in both water and sewer as many municipalities grapple with antiquated systems and limited revenue for modernization.
Mitigating these sizable increases are our efforts to leverage the geographic locations of our new same-store portfolio.
Through reengineering our leasing and advertising costs on-site payroll and management company structure delivering only expected synergies as we discussed prior to and during the integration of the Archstone assets.
Our top-level assumptions that drive our revenue model and guidance for 2014 assumes average rent growth of 3.25% achieve renewal rate of 4.75% occupancy of 95.4% and turnover at 51.5%.
Aside from D.C.
we would expect the repeat of 2013 and maintain our same 3 buckets of revenue growth markets for 2014 which are San Francisco Denver and Seattle buckets which will produce combined revenue growth in excess of 5.5%.
The second bucket contains L.A.
Orange County San Diego Boston New York and Florida which will produce revenue growth from 3.5% to 5%.
And in the last bucket of course is Washington D.C.
delivering a 1% decline.
Now starting with Seattle I'll give brief market highlights some revenue expectations and expected deliveries that combined drive our thought process for rolled [ph] up revenue guidance.
2014 will see record deliveries in Seattle with 8 600 units expected amounting to a 46% increase over 2013.
As a very manageable percentage of existing stock and knowing that Amazon will continue its large capital investment following the split -- the union contract dispute successfully behind them and Microsoft has chosen to make the safe decision with its new CEO we are optimistic that Seattle will be able to absorb this new inventory with mild disruption and remain in the top bucket of revenue growth similar to 2013.
No surprise that San Francisco continues to lead the pack as the cost to own far outpaces the cost of renting.
With much of the first wave of North San Jose product leased-up with virtually no impact to existing assets the next wave is upon us.
We would expect that any softness in the South Bay would be mitigated by increasing rents in Oakland and the East Bay as the shortage of affordable housing pushes existing and prospective renters to lower-cost submarkets.
Net affected base rent for this week are up 10.8% over same week last year and renewal offers for February exceeded 12.5%.
While they will see record deliveries of 5 500 new apartments in 2014 the rate of deliveries for '15 will decline 40%.
We see nothing on the horizon that will impact the strong fundamentals that exist in San Francisco today.
Now Los Angeles fundamentals appear to be in a continuing improvement pattern with the anticipation of a breakout year for the L.A.
economy and a new pro-business city government the rebranding of downtown as a world-class city coupled with meaningful additions to infrastructure and transportation cause us to be very optimistic in L.A.'s ability to absorb the 11 000 new deliveries expected in '14.
Also given the centralized nature and small percentage of existing stock and a 30% -- 37% falloff in 2015 deliveries we again see no major hurdles to improving fundamentals and revenue growth.
Orange County and San Diego will continue to see above-average growth.
With 5 000 new units expected to deliver in '14 for Orange County we see little direct impact to the EQR portfolio primarily due to the coastal nature of these new developments.
San Diego will also see 5 000 new deliveries this year but is also one of the few beneficiaries of the budget sequestration.
With the military's reorientation to the Pacific Rim and sizable allocations of increased spending we see economic stability near term; however some potential price pressure in the high end of the market in downtown submarkets.
Boston is currently delivering 5 500 units with the majority of those units in the urban core going head-to-head with many of our assets.
We expect rents to moderate without serious disruption given the net effect of rents these new buildings must command.
Today new deliveries were absorbed fairly quickly especially during the fourth quarter.
Given continued strong job growth and a 62% decrease in 2015 deliveries we would expect any market disruption to be short-lived.
New York in our assessment is simply taking a pause with mild elevated deliveries in both '13 and '14 at the high end of the market and increase move-outs to buy homes which were up over 20%.
New York has seen steady demand and moderating new lease net effective rent growth as the job machine has produced more jobs on the low side of average income.
Our outlook remains positive with renewals achieved still exceeding 4% for Q1.
Washington D.C.
despite having 19 000 new deliveries in process as we speak remain -- we remain very positive as the long-term owner.
Near-term pricing pressure will net new average lease rents of negative 3% to 4% or greater while achieved renewals that are already on the books for January February and March exceed 2% netting a 1% revenue decline for full year 2014.
Detailed traffic statistics on our existing communities and new lease-ups in D.C.
tell us that the private sector continues to hire many prospective renters are coming from other states.
And while the government is smaller today they continue to fill positions and move forward.
Without a material catalyst in place for significant increases in job growth we would expect D.C.
revenue growth to decline even further in 2015.
And last but not least to South Florida.
With its strong South American influence the condo market in Miami is back and having a favorable influence on the economy.
Modest levels of new deliveries will occur across the 3-county MSA with little if any disruption to the broader market.
So in summary we continue to see strong fundamentals across all of our markets.
2014 will see record levels of deliveries in the urban core; however 2015 deliveries across our core markets will decline by 40%.
We see nothing on the horizon that will negatively impact the continued improvement in the macroeconomic that drive our business and would expect solid performance through 2014 and beyond.
All right.
Thank you David.
For the first time in many years there's clearly very little to report on the transaction side for the quarter just ended.
Because for the second consecutive quarter we did not acquire any new assets.
We did however sell a couple of assets in the fourth quarter one in Atlanta and one in Tacoma bringing the total sold for the entire year to just shy of $4.5 billion.
And I'm very proud to say that this enormous level of disposition activity was accomplished right on our expectations with respect to price and cap rates as we planned and budgeted for the Archstone acquisition.
And is yet another example of the incredible work by our teams across the country in successfully managing the execution risk of that extremely important transaction.
The development team continues to be extremely busy with an elevated level of activity thanks to our legacy land inventory and the Archstone land sites that we acquired early in 2013.
During the fourth quarter of '13 we started 2 new projects totaling $382 million of total cost bringing our starts for the entire year to nearly $900 million.
The disclosure of our development business in last night's release shows about $1.7 billion of active development currently underway and nearly $500 million completed and in lease-up.
I remind you that of this $2.2 billion total 5 assets totaling $300 million which came to us as part of the Archstone transaction are not considered core investments and we would expect to sell these following lease-up and stabilization.
During the quarter we did sell one land site in Miami Florida which was acquired as part of Archstone transaction.
And we sold that for $22 million and essentially that was the basis that had been attributed to that.
And we continue to hold 2 Archstone land sites that we expect to sell in the near term.
So today we hold 12 land sites in inventory that we expect to develop representing a pipeline of just over 3 500 units in terrific urban core locations in our core markets with the development cost of approximately $1.5 billion and 60% of which is in the San Francisco Bay Area.
We currently expect to start about half of this product this year and the other half in 2015 which will require an additional $1.1 billion or so of capital since the land has already been taken down for all of these deals.
This incremental capital can be totally self-sourced with free cash flow disposition proceeds or use of our $2.5 billion credit facility while still maintaining conservative credit metrics.
So we should average about $750 million of starts in each of the next 2 years.
And by 2016 I would expect that our starts will average less than that level and be in the range of $500 million to $750 million a year.
Now I'm happy to turn the call over to Mark Parrell.
Thank you David.
I want to take a few minutes this morning to give some detail on our guidance for 2014 and our capital and rehab plan and I also want to discuss our projected capital [indiscernible] activities for the year.
For the year we have provided a normalized FFO guidance range of $3.03 to $3.13 per share.
The 8% growth we expect in normalized FFO is being fueled by our expectation of continued solid operations as well as the normalization of G&amp;A and interest expense at much lower levels which we think approximate our expected future run rate.
As David Neithercut noted another substantial contributing factor to our expected FFO growth in 2014 is the absence of transaction dilution from our investment activity.
We are forecasting acquisitions and dispositions of just $500 million each at a narrower cap rate spread than in the past reflective of the fact that the heavy lifting of our portfolio transformation is complete.
Moving up to G&amp;A.
We have given annual G&amp;A guidance of $50 million to $52 million down from $62 million in 2013.
We believe that our number in the low $50 million in G&amp;A is a good approximation of a normal annual run rate for our company.
The increased level in 2013 was driven primarily by Archstone-related and other one-time items.
I also would like you to note that we have many G&amp;A costs that are front-end loaded in the first couple of quarters including compensation matters and certain reserves and we expect 60% or so of our G&amp;A spend to happen in the first 6 months of 2014.
And then as a reminder our 2014 same-store pool includes all of the Archstone stabilized assets that we own and operate as if we own them for all of 2013.
Because some 2013 and 2014 numbers like property taxes are impacted by the acquisition some of the expense comparisons early in the year may require further explanation.
We will keep you advised of those items but we do not expect them to be material.
Onto the dividend.
As we previously announced we have made a couple of adjustments to our dividend policy.
With respect to timing we now expect to make 4 equal dividend payments starting with our April quarterly dividend.
Also we expect to continue our policy of paying a dividend equal to 65% of our normalized FFO guidance.
But we will fix the total dividend amount at the midpoint of our initial guidance range and do not expect to change our dividend during the year even if our normalized FFO ends up being somewhat higher or somewhat lower than our initial normalized FFO guidance for the year.
So applying all this to 2014 we have given a normalized FFO guidance range of $3.03 to $3.13 per share with a $3.08 per share midpoint.
Multiplying that $3.08 number by our 65% payout ratio leads to a projected annual dividend of $2 per share to be paid in quarterly installments of $0.50 each.
As a reminder all future dividend decisions are subject to the discretion of EQR's board.
Now switching over to our capital spending.
We have provided guidance on Page 24 for our capital expenditures which we estimate will be $1 700 per same-store unit.
That's a pretty significant increase over the about $1 200 per same-store unit that we spent in 2013.
We expect rehabs which I'll go over in more detail in just a moment to ramp up and see them constituting $450 per same-store unit while routine in unit replacements like flooring and appliances should be around $325 per unit.
And that's really quite consistent with prior years.
The major ramp-up in capital expenditure is in the building improvement category and that includes things like roofs mechanical systems and siding.
That's what we expect to spend about $925 per unit in 2014 which is up about 50% from the $615 per same-store unit we spent in 2013.
There's really 2 things going on that explain the increase.
First the 2014 same-store pool includes the Archstone assets which include many assets with much higher rents but also with higher building improvement costs.
And second you may recall that our initial 2013 capital expenditure guidance was $300 higher than the $615 per unit that we actually spent in 2013.
Some large building improvement projects that we had hoped to complete in 2013 when we gave you guidance earlier in the year ended up falling into 2014 and are impacting our 2014 numbers.
On rehabs we will continue to aggressively harvest value from our properties by doing those rehabs that meet our investment parameters.
In 2013 we completed rehabs and these are mostly kitchen and bath rehabs on about 3 800 units of which 2 560 were in same-store.
The other 1 200 units rehabbed in 2013 were primarily Archstone assets.
This effort will accelerate in 2014 and we expect to spend about $45 million or about $8 500 per rehab unit to rehab kitchens and baths and do other related work on about 5 300 units all of which will be in same-store.
This program is very scalable and we will continue to show good investment discipline in terminating asset rehabs that failed to hit our return targets.
And those targets are generally in the annual return on cost in the mid-teens.
Finally switching over to the capital market side.
We are extremely well positioned headed into 2014.
Our debt maturities in 2014 are modest about $550 million and are mostly back-end loaded.
We have $400 million in hedges that lock in an approximate 10-year treasury rate of 2.5% so we've mitigated most of the late risks in our refinancings.
Our guidance assumes a midyear $500 million debt deal.
We will also spend $600 million this year on the development activities that David Neithercut described.
We will fund these development activities with net cash flow of about $250 million and we will reborrow in 2014 some of the debt capacity created from the disposition activity we had in late 2013 that exceeded our $4 billion Archstone funding target.
We expect to have about $53 million in capitalized interest in 2014.
We also expect to maintain an average balance on a revolving line of credit of about $500 million this year and end the year with about a $600 million balance.
This will still leave us with $1.9 billion of capacity on the revolver that does not mature until 2018 and will help us maintain our target of having the company's floating rate debt exposure be between 15% and 20% of total debt.
We like the very short end of the curve and think some modest exposure to it is appropriate.
I'll now turn the call back to the operator for questions.
Sarah? Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Dave Bragg of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question is on your expected trajectory of revenue growth throughout 2014.
Do you expect a stabilization in the year-over-year growth later in this year? Or given your comments on D.C.
should we expect continued deceleration throughout the year? Well if you look at our quarter or sequential numbers it's really about the Northwest continuing to offset D.C.
and then some help from L.A.
and Orange County.
So it really comes down to what happens in D.C.
like I said always relate to D.C.
I am encouraged -- I mean when we look at our rents today our net effective rents were only down 2%.
And there's been some strengthening in the last month or so but you still have 19 000 units to come and another 10 000 next year.
LLC</strong> And a follow-up to Mark's commentary on CapEx.
What was the impact of revenue enhancing CapEx on NOI growth for '13? And what are your expectations for the impact in 2014? Yes.
Hi Dave this is Mark.
Historically it's been between 10 and 30 basis points beneficial to same-store growth.
It was about 20 basis points beneficial to 2013.
And we'd expect about the same in 2014.
But the other point I just want to make to that is we really aren't doing it to juice any of the same-store numbers we're really doing it because we think it's a good investment and we get a good IRR on it.
and if we're not we stop.
And it's really as simple as that.
Your next question comes from the line of David Toti of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> My first question is going back to D.C.
it seems that most of the market is pretty fearful of what's happening relative to revenue growth.
Is this actually an opportunity in your mind or could it create opportunities going forward for acquisitions in that market given relative weakness and probably some upward pressure on cap rates? Well I'd say we haven't seen any upward pressure in cap rates just yet.
I will also say that the sample size have been pretty small to draw any conclusions about what we think happened to value there.
And while I guess I would always consider us to want to be opportunistic and all -- at 18% of NOI already I think it would have to be extremely compelling for us to want to add to that.
But we've been active in all of our markets and we'll sort of see what the opportunities are and make the appropriate decision at the time.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And my second question just has to do with condo conversion and condo mapping in the portfolio.
Given your CBD concentrations do you think there's some opportunities there for those assets into a relatively strong housing market? I think that there's an awful lot of potential condo conversion potential in our portfolio.
I don't see -- think you'll see us do what we have done sort of the last time through.
But I think that there are -- you look at what's happening in New York City and what's happened to the increase in value of assets on a per unit per-square-foot basis in New York on the condo side versus the residential side or the rental side the separation has been significant.
So there certainly is I think some potential there.
I'm not quite sure if it makes sense for us to try and sell into that.
I don't think you'll see us do conversions ourselves.
But you could see us explore from time to time the ability to maybe monetize something into a condo bit.
And we did repurpose some of our people during the downturn and had them get condo entitlements in California and Florida and other places just to have that optionality really for a buyer from us.
Research Division</strong> I guess if you think about from a yield perspective if you can sell to a -- if you don't want to do it yourself but sell to a converter sell for a 3 cap or 4 cap and then redeploying to developments even at a 5 and 6 I think that would be an attractive churn.
That would certainly be accretive yes it would.
We will be open-minded about that.
Your next question comes from the line of Nick Joseph of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Full year guidance of $3.08 at the midpoint assumes a substantial ramp throughout the year from first quarter guidance of $0.70.
What's driving that ramp? And how do you expect it to track throughout the year? Nick it's Mark Parrell.
Part of that is that comment I made about G&amp;A where we have a lot of front-loaded G&amp;A so just as you go through the quarters.
And this is very similar to '13.
If you look the difference between the first and second quarter in '13 was about $0.07 a share.
And that's really without getting too precise about what's going to happen this year.
You just also have a very large ramp-up in NOI in the portfolio between the second and the first quarter.
So interest expense pretty constant G&amp;A tapering off and NOI going up throughout the year.
As the expenses taper off from the high energy costs of the first quarter going into the second.
So really it's not all that unusual for us to follow this pattern.
Research Division</strong> And then you touched on it a little but can you give some more detail on what's driving that G&amp;A savings this year relative to last year? Well sure.
It's a couple of different things.
And the biggest is that there were compensation costs relating to Archstone that were running through our numbers in 2013 that won't exist.
There also was a rebalancing of the company that occurred in terms of staffing.
And so there were employee termination costs that went through there as well.
So all of that will not we believe repeat itself in 2014.
And thus we are going back to a more normalized G&amp;A rate which is really close to the number we had in 2012.
So really '13 ends up being a bit of an aberration.
Your next question comes from the line of Nick Yulico of UBS.
Research Division</strong> On the same-store revenue guidance when you went through the market expectations D.C.
was similar to what you talked about in third quarter.
But it sounded like the West Coast and the New York Florida guidance was a bit better.
Is that right I mean are you feeling a little bit better about those markets today versus the last guidance? I guess I would say we're unchanged on New York but more positive on L.A.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So everything else is roughly the same? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the same-store expense guidance.
Is there anything besides property taxes being a little bit easier this year that's driving the easier same-store expenses this year versus 2013? Well I think because we're adding the Archstone portfolio in the same-store you do have quite a big pickup in Q1.
As we -- as soon as we plugged them in we discontinued a lot of the things that they did.
Over the months we've resized the portfolio.
So payroll is helping.
But also the management company costs we did some restructuring no different than the G&amp;A conversation that Mark just had that -- that's really offsetting a lot of these costs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly I was hoping to get some numbers on -- in the rehab units that last year and this year I think a fair amount of those are -- were in D.C.
or going to be in D.C.
some of the Archstone assets.
Could you quantify a bit how much of the -- what percentage of your D.C.
portfolio is sort of undertaking rehab last year and this year? I'm sorry as a percentage of the total portfolio or...
Research Division</strong> The percentage of your D.C.
portfolio.
I'm not sure we have a percentage of D.C.
portfolio.
As much as we can tell you about 20% of our dollars of that sort of $45-odd million will be spent in D.C.
Between D.C.
L.A.
and San Francisco that's about 70%.
So the amount of contribution of the rehab properties has a lot to do with what market you're doing the rehabs in.
I mean to move the average up from our midpoint you have to do those rehabs in markets that have growth that's higher than the average.
So -- but we are not doing them again primarily to just move same-store numbers we're doing them because they're good investments.
So in D.C.
I can't quantify but I can tell you there's a lot of runway and we expect to be doing 5 000 units a year across the whole...
Probably on a property count it's about 10% to 15%.
So 5 to 7 or 8 properties.
Research Division</strong> And then that's what is -- or that is what is going to be done this year? What's going to be the combined 2013 '14? Well I mean we've got -- you just keep reloading right? You have 7 or 8 you did and you're going to do another 7 or 8.
And it's just going to keep kind of going through the system.
I mean this past year we did -- it looks -- in D.C.
there were 4 fairly large ones going on and several other smaller ones.
And next year I guess another 7 or 8.
And a few of these -- that will be at '13 will continue into '14 as well.
And your next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just want to continue on with the expense question.
Again you guys have been very good at managing expenses and almost for us it becomes -- we get sort of lulled into the sense of no matter what expense pressure you guys have you seem to find offsetting savings so that net it's 2% to 3% a year.
As we think -- obviously we're not -- you guys aren't providing '15 guidance.
But is it reasonable to think that ongoing as a platform with all the expense pressures that you guys have outlined that 2% to 3% is sort of manageable over the next several years or should we think that maybe this year have some aberrational savings at which point years forward would be -- would see some higher expense growth? I'll let David go just a minute.
But I think that what you're seeing is the benefits of the size and scale being brought to bear.
A lot of companies out there are looking to get scale.
I mean we've got it.
And while there's not much you can do about real estate taxes which is the lion's share it's 30-some-odd percent there's certainly ways that David and his team can continue to use our scale.
And now with the concentrations we've got in individual markets I certainly have an expectation and I can't -- so David will tell you what he thinks the 3-or-so percent of that.
But I certainly see no reason why we shouldn't do better than others just because -- in any given year because of the benefits of that scale that we have.
So not that I'm giving '15 guidance but I guess what I would say is go back to the big 3.
Real estate taxes payroll and utilities make up about almost 70% of our total expense.
This year when you look at the makeup of the real estate tax almost half of the 5.25% increase is in New York and about half of the half is the 421a.
So that's known it's planned.
When you look at the utilities -- look this is going to be a big year for utilities only because of the consumption the rates on natural gas electric.
But then when you look at payroll I mean I think we've been pretty disciplined in how we look at payroll.
And we constantly try to reinvent how we run our portfolio.
So I think there's no reason why next year shouldn't be any worse than this year.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the next question is for Mark.
You commented on that you still have a hedge outstanding.
Obviously I'm sure bankers parade to your office every week if not more often than that pitching new ideas especially in this interest rate environment.
Is your view to continue to do more hedging given the prospect for higher rates or your experience in the past is such that calling interest rate is difficult and therefore it's not worth bearing the cost when the hedge goes the wrong way? Yes.
We don't really try to call interest rates.
We try to manage risk.
I mean interest rates changing is the same as utility consumption cost changing it's just another material expense of running the company.
So what we do Alex is we look at how much outstanding debt we have what the rollover rate would need to be for us to accretively refinance it and then what the curve requires us to pay for this insurance going forward.
And we've been very consistent over the last 10 or 15 years of kind of hedging about half of that risk under the theory that we don't know where rates are going.
We're not taking a view we're just buying some sort of insurance against rates getting away from us.
So when rates end up lower as they did the prior 3 years or so on us we still got a good part of the benefit.
And where like this year rates ended up getting away from everyone a little bit we had insurance already in place and we'll get some benefits.
So for us it's just a risk mitigator over time and there really isn't anything about guessing that we try to do that process.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So from I guess Sam's perspective it doesn't matter that you had to pay a higher rate over the past few years because you locked in the hedging.
The view is that if you look over the life of you guys hedging that net EQR's come out ahead I guess that's the view? Well I'm not in the position to speak for Sam Zell.
I would say that we're happy how everything turned out in general.
And I would say that over a long period of time I think our weighted average cost of capital was lower than really anyone else we compete against.
And that's a very important strategic advantage to us.
But again I mean no one could guess as to the exact moment is a good day to do a debt deal.
And I think it's a bit of a fool's errand to try to do that so we don't even attempt it.
Alex I think the way that we've managed the interest rate risk the most is by laddering the maturities out over a 10-year time period so that in any one given year we don't have a great deal of debt maturing.
I think Mark and his team did an unbelievable job of managing that risk away as part of the Archstone transaction.
And then as he said as we see debt issuances coming up in the future we begin to sort of take some of that risk off the table with the -- within 9 months or so or a year of knowing that we'll likely to have to do some kind of issuance.
But I think probably one of the most important ways we do it is just by making sure that we don't have any -- an awful lot of debt maturing in any one year.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Salinsky of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question just relates to Archstone obviously a lot of synergies recognized in 2013.
As you look at 2014 across the portfolio it sounds like redevelopment's an opportunity.
But where else do you see cost savings opportunities or integration opportunities relative to your existing portfolio? So this is David Santee.
I guess what I would say is that all of the low hanging fruit was harvested pretty much the day we plugged the Archstone portfolio into our platform.
So now it's more sharpshooting and we've already kind of done a review of payroll and leveraging the fact that some of these properties are down the block across the street what have you.
And there will be many many opportunities of small opportunities but combined they'll be material over the long run.
But I think you're seeing kind of the full impact in the Q1 expense numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second question David as you look today where your cost of capital is you look at the stocks trading where do you see the best investment options today? Is it -- at this part of the cycle does it still make sense to be doing core acquisitions or does it make more sense to be doing value-add acquisitions? And as you kind of look forward how do you weigh in development on that? Well I guess that's a constant discussion here Mike.
I mean on one hand we will always be trading out of some assets and into other assets.
We've given you guidance of the $500 million of buys and sells.
That's just the budget that the guidance is based upon.
If we can find good acquisition opportunities the appropriate spread to move capital from one asset or one market to another that's something that we will always do.
And then I think it really comes down to as we think about free cash flow and that amount of capital that we can raise without having the 1031 right we've got limited amounts of capital that we can raise in any given year without having it impact our taxable income what do we do with that money? And we look at a development.
To tell you we've been open-minded we'd consider stock buybacks and we'll be thinking about what to do with that every step of the way.
There's -- we had a board meeting here in December as I mentioned to everyone on our last call and we talked about uses of that capital and what the opportunities might be and what the stock price was and what we thought NAV was.
And that's all part of the calculus.
So we've got $1.5 billion of potential development that we could start.
None of it's committed to be started.
And we'll ask ourselves that question every time there comes an opportunity to start to go vertical on any of that if it's the right thing to do if there's not some other alternative use for that capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just finally you put -- it's an ad disclosure there on the Lehman stock sales.
Were you approached by Lehman in the fourth quarter or year-to-date about the sale of the stock or repurchase opportunities? Mike it's Mark.
Like with many of our large shareholders there's constant communication.
We did not facilitate any of those transactions Lehman did those on their own.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Pehl of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious if you can give us an update on your development pipeline what's the current yield you're expecting on that.
Well of the projects that are under construction today? Research Division</strong> Yes.
We've got a high -- so of about $1.7 billion underway today.
We've -- on the current yields we underwrote those at high 5s.
We think that those deals could stabilize in the mid-6s.
And that's on average across that entire portfolio of business.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just sticking with the development yield side of things.
As you think about the 750 million of starts this year and next is it your expectation that rental growth can keep pace with any sort of upward pressure on construction particularly on the construction and payroll cost? And where do you think we should expect yields to come in a little bit? I think that right now what we're seeing for -- we think construction cost for 2014 I think will be okay.
I will tell you that 2013 probably saw across some of the markets a little bit more increase in construction costs than rental growth.
But I think as we sit here and we think about 2014 I think we'll be okay.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So yields can be maintained.
All right.
And then just a cleanup question.
We talked a lot about the utilities and G&amp;A impacting sort of the early part of the year.
But just in relation to the minus $0.05 noted in the press release on OpEx and minus $0.02 of other is that entirely related to the utility costs and G&amp;A or is there anything else that's causing some downward pressure quarter-on-quarter? It's Mark.
You're also giving people pay raises and resetting your payroll run rate resetting all your medical and workman's comp and other accruals.
So all of that happens between the quarters the first and the fourth along with utilities which is the biggest single thing.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Frost of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just make sure I understood the debt issuance here.
The $0.5 billion you expect to issue midyear that's to refi the September maturities and then an incremental $600 million on the revolver and that's how you get to your average debt balance you expected on the guidance.
Is that -- that's correct right? That's correct.
And you need to factor in the $250 million in net cash flow that we get through the year from the operating business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And should we think of that $600 million to sort of -- from your comments it seems that we should think about that as a permanent part of the capital structure it's floating rate debt that's what you want to have in your capital structure that's correct right? Yes.
I think for the indefinite future.
We like the very short end of the curve and I think a little exposure to it makes sense.
And again it's pretty modest we have maybe 15% to 20% floating rate debt and this will get us there.
And I guess if there's some great opportunity we'll think on it.
But right now we think it's best to leave it there.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of David Harris of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Did you sell that German unit that you had in joint venture with Avalon that was left or was it a part of the Archstone transaction? Bloomberg was carrying the story that you might have been doing that before year-end.
Well that's all in process.
LLC Research Division</strong> All in process so not yet done.
Is there much left in joint venture from the Archstone transaction that's left aside from that German unit? No there isn't a great deal left David.
I mean there's -- we may have $80 million $90 million of JVs total putting aside the Germany investment which we do hope goes away soon.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then this is a sort of a big picture question.
Obviously you've done tremendous work in repositioning the portfolio.
You've got the assets where you want them now.
Any thought other than perhaps a focus on redevelopment as to strategic growth initiatives that the company might have? I mean the position of the portfolio is where you want it to be the balance sheet is terrific your dividend policy is completely transparent.
Where do we go next? Well we've got a $30-some-odd billion portfolio that we could continue to work.
And back to one of the original questions there will always be opportunities to sell assets and reallocate that capital of what we think are better investment opportunities.
So I think David and his team David Santee and his team will continue to work very hard to deliver the best performance they can from it.
And Alan George and his team will continue to manage the portfolio and try and reallocate capital as best possible.
And I think Mark Tennison and the development team will continue to find opportunities for us to redeploy our free cash flow.
So we are now at a point where we're going to work very very hard on what we've got continue to improve it on the margin.
But a lot of it is just blocking and tackling with the portfolio that we've got today.
And your next question comes from the line of Rich Anderson of BMO Capital Markets.
So just quickly where are you on the rebranding of the Archstone assets and is there any kind of material costs embedded in 2014 for that? Well I mean just rebranding is just renaming.
Yes I mean taking down the word Archstone.
Yes I mean basically we have -- we are pulling the trigger as we speak.
I would tell you that most of the times we're keeping the core part of the name whether it's Archstone Alban Towers or whatever.
And there's not a significant cost in doing this.
And we have -- we'll be working on it all year basically.
Okay.
Enough for me.
And then just a bigger picture Dave for -- with Archstone now mostly in the rearview mirror some opportunities for synergies on a go-forward basis.
But you still as Mr.
Harris said it's still a great balance sheet.
Where do you put the probability in the next couple of years where EQR could again be a participant in some type of an M&amp;A deal? I mean is it like forget-about-it kind of mindset right now or maybe moderate or low probability? Where do you think you stand on that issue? Well I guess I'd answer on that question by asking you what you think is out there that's terribly strategic for Equity Residential and will make us a better company after the fact? I don't want to name names.
Well I mean I guess just maybe just think about it.
I mean we did not participate in the last event that occurred.
And we just didn't see it as important or strategic in any way.
So I think that there will be opportunities for us probably more on the private side than on the public side.
I just don't look at the landscape and think that there's anything that's terribly strategic and important for us that would make us -- certainly things could make us larger but that's certainly not our goal.
We want to be better and I'm not sure there's anything out there that would make us better.
Mr.
McKenna there are no further questions at this time.
All right.
Thank you all for your time today.
We look forward to seeing many of you in Florida in early March.
Thanks so very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
Thank you for participating.
Please disconnect your lines.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Equity Residential First Quarter Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today May 1 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Camille.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's first quarter results.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; and David Santee our Chief Operating Officer.
Mark Parrell our CFO is also here with us for the Q&amp;A.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn it over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
We're extremely pleased to have delivered normalized FFO for the first quarter of $0.71 a share and that's an amount that's near the high end of our previously provided guidance range and one that represents an increase of nearly 11% over the first quarter of last year.
For the first quarter of '14 our same-store revenue which includes nearly 18 500 Archstone units grew 4% over the first quarter of last year which was slightly better than our original expectations.
And it is no surprise that San Francisco Denver and Seattle continue to lead the way with Washington D.C.
bringing up the rear by a very wide margin.
Fundamentals in the business remain favorable.
David Santee will go into more specific market-level detail in just a moment.
But from a portfolio-wide perspective current occupancy is 95.9%.
And through the first 4 months of the year we've achieved average renewal increases in excess of 5% a level we expect to achieve in the coming months as well.
So we're confident that we are well positioned as we approach our primary leasing season and I can assure you that our teams across the country are eager and very well prepared to maximize revenue during this very important time of the year.
So now I'll turn the call over to David who will take you through what we're seeing across our specific markets today and how things are setting up for the summer leasing season.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Today I'll round out our Q1 performance results with a brief recap of our key drivers of revenue growth provide some color on our expenses and how that plays out for the balance of the year and then give you current pricing renewal rates for April and May coupled with some brief commentary across the core markets.
Now in addition to the renewal and occupancy results David gave you in his opening remarks turnover for the quarter continued its decline with an 80 basis point reduction from Q1 of '13 translating into a 300 basis point decline on a year-to-date annualized basis.
While managing lease expirations is a never-ending but critical process the percentage of residents electing to renew with us is at the highest level we have seen in the 7 years we have been tracking this metric.
Also fueling the lower turnover is less home buying.
Move-outs for home purchases decreased 30 basis points to 11.9% of move-outs.
But more telling is the absolute number of residents buying homes declining in 9 out of 10 of our core markets the lowest we have seen in the last 5 quarters.
Net effective new lease base rents for the quarter averaged above 3% through March and have averaged slightly above 4.5% April-over-April.
While a much stronger start to the leasing season than last year improving rates are simply reacting to the normal season patterns that occur every year.
Also contributing to our favorable revenue growth for the quarter is the ancillary income growth in the Archstone portfolio.
Plugging these assets into our platform allows us the visibility to fully realize the benefits of our centralized and subject-matter expert approach to day-to-day property management activity.
Simple things like late charges which were up 50%; pet rent up 250%; transfer fees up 220% all add up to being very accretive to our total income growth.
As we say internally the next big thing at Equity Residential is doing many small things extremely well if not perfect.
As we look out over the next 90 days our exposure is dead on to same week 1 year ago.
Renewal offers have been issued above 7% through July and achieved renewal results for April and May are on the books at 5.3% with net effective new lease rents approaching 5% year-over-year.
With all these indicators flashing green we remain extremely optimistic but mindful of the magnitude of new deliveries across all of our markets and that the full year revenue growth targets are achieved over the next 90 days.
Expenses for the quarter came in on the high end of our expectations due to utilities and real estate taxes.
As we have discussed previously real estate taxes payroll and utilities make up 68% of total operating costs.
So by now it's no surprise that utility costs had a significant impact across all types of businesses as a result of the extreme temperatures.
More telling are the significant price spikes that occurred in the deregulated electricity markets in the Northeast with unprecedented increases of 300% to 400% across all of the regional pricing indexes.
Consumption of energy in the EQR portfolio was up a modest 5% to 7% as we continually to -- as we continue to aggressively invest in LED lighting solar and cogeneration opportunities that provide outstanding rates of return on investment.
More recently with global forces having tremendous influence on energy costs here at home vigilance will be necessary to keep these costs in check going forward.
Additionally since our initial guidance in February we have revised real estate taxes upward to 6.2% from 5.2% both for the full year as a result of Washington D.C.
valuations increasing more than expected and higher-than-expected taxes in King County Seattle Washington.
Now mitigating these costs are the operational efficiencies realized through the addition of the Archstone portfolio to full year same-store.
Comparing Q1 '14 costs on the EQR platform versus Q1 2013 costs on the Archstone platform allowed us to reduce total costs in leasing and advertising which were down 23%; turnover cost down 19%; property management cost down 2.3%; and most importantly making up 20% of our total expense on-site payroll which was down 4%.
So excluding real estate taxes and utilities our controllable operating expenses declined 2.1% for the quarter.
While we expect these expense levels on the Archstone portfolio to continue to offset legacy portfolio growth rates the impact will diminish over the course of the year primarily in the next 2 quarters.
Archstone Payroll as an example was not fully optimized until mid-Q3 of '13.
For modeling purposes we would not expect any material expense mitigation beyond Q3 and the mitigation in Q2 to be less favorable than Q1.
Now moving on to the markets.
I'll provide you with our occupancy today.
April and May achieved renewal rates and then net effective new lease base rents 4 weeks out.
For California I'll only quote April renewals as these are 30-day markets and May has yet to firm.
As David said we continue to maintain our 3 buckets of performance across the portfolio.
In our top-performing bucket we have San Francisco Denver and Seattle with expected full year revenue growth well above 5.5%.
The bottom bucket remains Washington D.C.
down 1%.
And all other markets making up the middle bucket with expected full year revenue growth of 3.5% to 5%.
Seattle continues to be a great job producer and systematically absorbed the expected 7 500 deliveries without material disruption to the market.
With occupancy at 96% and exposure on top of same week last year renewal rates achieved for April and May are gaining momentum at 8.3% and 9% respectively.
Net effective base rents 30 days out are up 6% to 7% versus same period last year with impressive strength in the CBD and Belltown Queen Anne submarkets.
San Francisco continues to be our top market for yet another year with the Peninsula and South Bay leading the way in year-over-year revenue growth while North San Jose continues to absorb units at a reasonable pace.
After a slow start to the year occupancy is now 96.3% and renewal rates achieved remain strong at 8.8% for April with net effective base rents up 8% to 9%.
Denver despite delivering almost 10 000 units this year remains resilient with a bustling energy and tech-driven economy and is producing some of the best job growth numbers in percentage terms in the nation.
With concentrated deliveries in the urban core and our portfolio concentrated in the South and Southwest we would expect another banner year from Denver with occupancy today at 96.6%.
Renewal rates achieved remain very solid at 8.3% and 8.5% with net effective base rents above 7%.
So jumping down to Los Angeles.
Results thus far while solid unfortunately do not paint the picture of the breakout year that many had hoped.
L.A.
continues its slow and steady improvement in fundamentals with occupancy at 95.4% although employment remains stubbornly high at 8.7%.
Nevertheless renewals achieved are solid for April at 6.1%.
Net effective base rents are up 5.8% again this is versus same week last year and are poised have a good run over the next 3 months based on our historical seasonal pattern.
Orange County after dealing with a constant stream of elevated concessions in Q1 primarily from the overhang of delayed deliveries has now returned to good health.
Occupancy today is 95.9% and achieved renewal rates improved to 4.9% with net effective base rents up 6%.
Our outlook for Orange County is a bit brighter than that of L.A.
San Diego good news.
The ship is still in with occupancy strong at 96.7%.
Renewal growth rates are some of the highest we've seen in years at 5.2% for April.
Net effective base rents are steady up 6% over same week last year.
With 5 000 new units sprinkled throughout the market we would expect smooth sailing through the balance of the year.
So jumping over to Boston.
The urban core deliveries have arrived and are in full lease-up mode.
Across the street and down the block we continue to see favorable demand in our downtown submarkets and steady absorption of quality assets with only minus price -- modest price negotiations on renewals at 96.8% occupancy and renewals achieved having remained solid at 4.1% and 4.3%.
Net effective base rents remain strong up 4.5% versus same week last year.
Now New York fared better with occupancy in the quarter.
However the pause button remained in the on position relative to net effective base rent growth which remained at or below 2% for much of the quarter.
Job growth remains solid but many are on the low end of the pay scale with fewer in the higher-paying financial services sector.
Today the portfolio is 96% occupied with achieved renewal rates of 4.7% for both April and May.
Net effective base rents were up 4% versus same week last year.
So the next 2 months should set the table for full year revenue growth.
Jumping down to South Florida and saving Washington for last.
South Florida remains a steady performer with occupancy at 95.8% about the same position they were last year.
Achieved renewals of 5.7% and 5.8% for April and May are very strong with net effective base rents well above 6%.
Given our diversified 3-county portfolio we would not expect nor are we seeing any impact from the expected 7 200 new deliveries this year on top of the 6 000 units delivered in '13.
And last but not least is Washington D.C.
Occupancy pressures are starting to mount as our portfolio occupancy sits at 95% today roughly 30 to 40 basis points less versus year-to-date last year.
Looking at our dashboard there still appears to be a healthy level of demand across the MSA.
Net effective base rents continue to fluctuate between flat and minus 2% as the various submarkets react to the deliveries.
Achieved renewal rates are still holding at 2.6% and 3.3% for April and May.
And our experience during the last downturn leads us to believe we can continue to mitigate the effective lower new lease rents with more favorable positive renewal growth.
Jobs will continue to be the governor on how this all plays out for 2016.
Today though interestingly aside from PG County Maryland the District and the Rosslyn-Ballston submarkets are performing the best making up 41% of our portfolio.
Both have the least negative year-to-date revenue decline with current month revenue growth improving versus Alexandria and South Arlington submarkets which are further out and declining a potential signal that many are taking advantage of moving closer in while rental rates become more attractive.
So all in all everything appears to be on track as we enter the peak leasing season.
Seattle takes first place for the unexpected upside surprise while New York City brings us back to even.
We know there are major delivery hurdles out there but to date the markets are absorbing these units with little dislocation or concessions.
We have our platform tuned up.
We have some of the best and brightest in our industry across many disciplines and we're all anxious to deliver our 2014 goals.
Terrific.
Thank you David.
Just a little bit now on transaction and development before we open the call to questions.
For the first time in nearly a year we acquired a one-off asset in the first quarter '14 in Los Angeles where we bought a 430-unit project built in 2008 near LAX.
The deal was acquired for $143 million at a cap rate of 4.9%.
You'll recall that we exceeded our original disposition guidance in 2013 when we opportunistically sold a 1 400-unit asset in San Diego late in the year for $366 million and a cap rate in the mid-5s.
Now in addition to lower annual sales volumes going forward that sale and this acquisition are examples of the type of transaction activity you should expect from us.
The sale of older surface-parked properties in our core markets but more suburban in nature with proceeds reinvested in higher-density more urban assets at a much narrower cap rate spread than it's been [ph] in recent years in this case about 70 basis points.
The development team continues to be extremely busy with an elevated level of activity thanks to our legacy land inventory and the Archstone land sites that we acquired in 2013.
During the first quarter of this year we completed construction in 5 projects 1 290 units with a total development cost of $370 million.
Now we expect to achieve yields from 6% to 7% on current market rents inclusive of management costs on those transactions.
During the first quarter we also started 3 new projects 1 145 units and a total project cost of $614 million and we project yields of mid-4 to mid-5 on current market rents on those starts.
So with the starts in the first quarter that leaves us today with 9 land sites in inventory that we expect to develop soon representing a pipeline of just over 2 500 units in terrific urban locations in our core markets with a development cost of approximately $1.1 billion.
And of this current inventory we expect to begin construction on several hundred million more yet this year with the balance to begin in 2015.
And with that Camille we'll be happy to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of David Toti with Cantor.
Research Division</strong> I just have 2 questions.
First sort of stepping back in terms of operations.
The quarter saw slightly higher occupancy and lower turn which to me seems a little bit counterintuitive in this part of the cycle.
Is that characteristic of sort your first quarter dynamics in your opinion? Or was that intentional -- intentionally somewhat defensive? I think we're managing lease expirations.
We're being intentional in trying to mitigate the volatility that we see in Q4 and Q1.
So I mean like I said one of the biggest benefits is just significantly fewer homebuyers and then just a tendency for people to stay put.
Research Division</strong> And do you find this in general kind of surprising at this point in the cycle? No I think we -- I don't find the home buying surprising.
We saw turnover drop pretty dramatically in Q4 and we had hoped that would continue through Q1 and it did.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then my other question just has to do with the acquisition the $143 million.
Can you give us maybe some detail on the underwriting that made that price attractive in terms of your expectations for occupancy perhaps or rent growth? Or is there material synergies in terms of operating savings? What's the driver of that being a good fit at a 4.9% cap? Well I guess we identified this asset in a higher density kind of urban location.
We think we bought at a favorable price.
I'm not sure the deal was heavily marketed.
And we were able to just plug it into our platform there in L.A.
and run it very efficiently.
As I say we bought it at about a 4.9% cap.
We think that year 2 could be in the mid-5s.
And it's just a nice complement to our existing portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Do you think it'll top out in the mid-5s? Or do you see more upside in sort of a 2- or 3-year window? Well I don't think rents are you going flat if that's the question.
I mean David commented about L.A.
We think Southern California is beginning to show improvement and we think it'll be a very solid long-term deal and it'll be very strong high-single-digit IRR for us.
Our next question is from the line of Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Recognizing that Archstone is now in the same-store portfolio.
But could you give a breakdown of how same-store revenue growth differed between the EQR legacy portfolio and the Archstone portfolio? So I think the best way to say this is that the Archstone portfolio is performing as we expected relative to our underwriting in the various submarkets.
So head to head when we have a couple of Archstone properties in Chelsea and we have our legacy properties in Chelsea those properties perform very similar.
When you start looking at market dynamics there are anomalies that kind of create some differences but we know what those are.
So head to head they perform as expected and very similar.
Research Division</strong> And then you quote the 5% average renewal increase.
How does that compare to where the renewals were actually sent out? So historically our spread has always been in the neighborhood of 180 to 200 basis points.
And that's where it stands today.
Some markets are a little tighter.
But rarely do markets exceed 200 basis points.
Research Division</strong> David it's Michael Bilerman.
I just had a quick question.
In your opening comments you talked about transfer fees being up I don't know something like 200% and you talked about the retention and that people are staying in place so it was the highest rate in 7 years.
And I'm curious when you step back from that how much of it do you think is just the new EQR portfolio that more people sort of like the places that you offer? How much of it's the services and the customer things that you're doing? How much of it's maybe not charging high-enough rents to the tenants? And how much it maybe was just weather-related where no one wanted to move and were willing to pay whatever it was to not schlep their stuff around? Well -- gosh there's a lot of questions there.
Let me deal with revenue first.
I think if you remember a few years back we set up this business group and we've taken a lot of if you want to call it authority or some of the decision making.
At the property level we simply automated a lot of that.
So no longer can -- do we leave it up to property managers to charge late fees or settlement fees or -- all of these fees and additional charges are built into our platform and automatically billed.
And then if they want to waive that then they -- there's a process and the support group that helps them with that.
But when we set this up on our legacy portfolio I think 3 or 4 years ago we saw the same thing 50% 60% increases in late fees.
It's just the same.
It's just we're seeing the same thing that happened to the legacy portfolio when we implemented those types of activities on these ancillary income items.
So what was the -- what was your next question? Research Division</strong> Well I'm just trying to figure out.
I mean you have -- you said there was higher transfer fees that you got as people transferred in the equity res portfolio and there was a much higher retention rate of people staying and renewing.
And I think you said it was the highest in 7 years.
And what I just wanted to try to figure out is is that a sign of the portfolio that you have? Or is it a sign that maybe you're not pushing rents enough? Or was it just happening in the first quarter where a lot of people just didn't want to move and were willing to accept whatever rent they got? It was -- I was trying to put those 2 things together.
Yes I guess I would say it's probably a bit of all of that.
But I would tell you that when we look -- let's talk about the renewals the percent of residents renewing.
We see that across almost all of our markets.
It's not just a Archstone-related thing or a new portfolio.
I mean Seattle we added 3 Archstone properties virtually 0 impact on our overall staff.
So I think there was some of that.
On the other side of lower turnover in raw terms let's talk -- it was about 700 move-outs for the quarter.
Consequently we had 700 less move-ins than we had last year.
So it becomes a little murky because when you get up to 96% occupancy you start having availability issues.
But could the weather have played a role in that? Certainly it could've.
But I don't know how we would measure that.
And Michael it's David Neithercut.
Just to make one clarification here.
The increase in the fees really came from the Archstone portfolio where a lot of -- in which we collected more in the first quarter under our ownership than they had collected in the first quarter under their ownership.
So I just want to make sure it was clear that these -- it wasn't kind of -- increased fees across the board but rather a significant increase in those collected as a result of plugging their assets onto our platform.
Our next question is from the line of Dave Bragg with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David Santee at the beginning of the year or on the fourth quarter call you laid out your revenue growth guidance and you've appended [ph] it with your assumptions for base rent growth renewal rent growth and occupancy.
And through the first 4 months of the year it appears as though you're tracking well ahead on all 3 of those metrics.
Is -- are we correct in that interpretation? And is that steering you towards the top half of your growth guidance for the year? I feel good that we would be in the top half of the guidance just as I would expenses.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And another question relates to your March investor presentation.
I think you talked about this on the fourth quarter call as well.
Equity Residential has put out a view that apartment completions in your core markets will be significantly lower in 2015 than 2014.
And you must have a very sophisticated way of looking at this.
But we're looking at permits in all of your key markets and on a year-over-year basis in nearly every market permits are up still pretty significantly and that would translate into starts a year from now -- I'm sorry into completions a year from now.
So can you talk about the process that gets you to this much lower level of completions next year versus 2014? Well I guess that process is the result of the investment professionals and the management professionals we've got in each one of these core markets that really do bird-dog this process extensively and are aware very specifically of the sites and the activity and what to expect.
So that's simply what is being -- permits being pulled.
But they have a very good sense as to the real activity that they expect to see happen.
So that kind of creates our view of our expectation that deliveries will -- should be down.
And also as we look at again what's happening on the demand side and the continued expectation for household formations in these markets gives us the view that things will be back in balance as early as next year.
And then also Dave we're talking about deliveries of apartments.
And when -- the permit numbers are generally anything 5-plus units.
That could include college dorms.
It could include senior housing.
It could include any type of dwelling that would house 5 or plus more units.
But like David said I mean we use our BI platform.
We update it every quarter.
We recently made a 1 500-unit adjustment to deliveries in D.C.
next year.
So I don't know that there's a one-to-one correlation on permits versus deliveries in '15.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just on that point are you increasingly hearing from your staff on the ground that planned projects are getting shelved? Well I guess I'm not sure that I'm hearing that specifically as this process that we went through recently in preparation for this call led us to really no changes from the last time we went through that process.
Our next question is from the line of Nick Yulico with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Ross Nussbaum here with Nick.
I've got 2 top-down industry questions for you.
The first relates to the bill that's making its way through the Senate banking committee that would I guess preserve the liquidity that Fannie and Freddie are providing to the multi-family housing business.
And curious what your take on that is and the success of that actually moving through the pipe.
Well I guess I'll let the Vice Chair of the NMHC Finance Committee answer that question.
I don't think that comes with any compensation so I won't honor it.
To answer the question Ross we think that bill is very favorable.
This is the bill that's now being considered by the banking committee the multi-family.
We think it preserves many of the best aspects of the existing system and will provide a great deal of liquidity in good times and bad for the sector.
In terms of probabilities what we're sort of hearing is that it's increasingly less likely that anything will happen this next month or so.
And if that's the case then with the election in a lot of respects right around the corner that means nothing will happen in this Congress and it'll all be deferred.
So our best guess is that nothing will occur.
But certainly that's subject to change.
And they're working on the markup as we understand it right now.
So certainly subject to change.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that.
Second question on the homeownership rate.
I'm sure you knew that Sam was speaking earlier this week and talked about the rate which is at 64.8% now potentially going down to 55% which is a pretty bold statement.
And I'm curious if you all are in full agreement with your Chairman's view on the home ownership rate and the direction of it.
Well I guess I'll just say that Sam is making more sort of points than making very specific declarations about levels.
I -- he believes that there is no reason why the homeownership rate needs to stay back at this historical level of 64% as a result of just sort of changing demographics and preferences and delayed marriage et cetera et cetera.
Now whether it's 55 or not you're absolutely right that's a very bold statement and I think he's trying to be provocative.
But he certainly is trying to make a point about that at least for this demographic that rents a significant percentage of our apartments they are staying with us longer and we expect them to be in the -- rental housing occupants much later as they do delay marriage as they enjoy the lifestyle we provide in these high-density urban markets.
Research Division</strong> And I think Nick had a question.
Research Division</strong> Yes just on New York City.
I'm wondering if you've at all explored a sale of one asset or more assets to test the condo conversion bid for your portfolio.
Look we like our assets in New York.
We think we're very well positioned and we're certainly keeping an eye on what's happening there.
And who knows what it might provoke us to do but we haven't done anything at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just the one other one on New York is this development right that you added.
Can you just remind us where is that parcel? Well it's by the Lincoln Tunnel.
And those rights were against an easement and there was a subdivision of a neighboring parcel which gave us some more rights.
But that's a property we own near the Lincoln Tunnel.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then that -- what -- I mean how soon might that be a start that would be possible? It will be some time before that's a start.
That is not one of the transactions that's included in our expectations for '14 and '15.
Our next question is from the line of Ryan Bennett with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but just one point of clarification on the quarter.
David Santee I think you mentioned utility -- had brought up utilities being up significantly year-over-year.
Just in terms of the impact on your revenue given your recoveries on utilities was there a material impact this quarter and how did that compare to the first quarter of last year? It's Mark Parrell just answering the question.
But just a little bit of context on utilities for us and the RUBS income which is the sort of contra to that -- which is the number in our revenue.
75% of the RUBS income we have is water sewer and trash which does have energy-related components but it's not a direct kind of item that's hit by an energy cost change.
So what we did as David Santee mentioned when we plugged all these new acquisition properties into our system was also to plug it into our RUB system.
So sequentially the 0.5% revenue increase we reported was unchanged of RUBS.
So if you had taken RUBS out you still would have had 0.5%.
Quarter-over-quarter it was a 19 basis point improvement so benefit to our numbers.
And again that's because of this I think permanent plugging in of these acquisition assets into our system and better utilization of it and better acceptance by residents of these charges being part of their responsibility.
Our next question is from the line of Jana Galan with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on Boston.
It seems that you benefited 120 basis points from year-over-year from nonresidential-related income.
Is that the ancillary income you spoke about earlier? And will you continue to see that benefit for the remainder of the year? That's really -- it's Mark Parrell again.
And that's really the garage Jana.
We have a garage near the Boston Garden.
And depending on the sort of ups and downs of the Boston sports teams.
And also we did some substantial rehab at that garage that closed it down in part during 2013.
So this benefit will exist in Q1 and Q2 and will get smaller through the year.
We did reference by footnote in our 2013 statements Jana the impact of the garage being down.
And we're now just being -- trying to be consistent by showing you exactly what the positive benefit was of the garage bringing it back online.
Our next question is from the line of Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just some quick questions here.
David Santee I think in your opening comments about New York where you said the pause was still on and you commented about lack of financial service growth.
Just sort of curious I mean any of us looking around the Street can see that -- I don't think -- unless you're compliance Wall Street's really not hiring.
Do you feel that your mix in New York requires financial service or that growth in the TAMI industries are enough to -- those income levels are enough to pay the rents at your portfolio here in the city? Well I mean when we look at our resident makeup we still have 51% of our New York units occupied by one person.
So that goes to more unit makeup so to speak.
Also when you -- what really doesn't get talked about much is just the level of new development.
And there has been a lot quite a bit of new development in New York City all at the very high end of the range.
So I think with the -- just the lack of growth in the higher-paying jobs you have significant deliveries in the luxury Class AAA apartment market.
You have other neighborhoods like Brooklyn Williamsburg that were at one time in the past year deemed more affordable.
Now those rates are approaching New York-type rates.
I think there's just been this movement around that's kind of just put a temporary ceiling on rents.
So I hope that answers your question.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> But are you seeing -- so are your folks when the applicants come in the people from the ad agencies and social media and all the growth industries are your leasing people seeing comparable income levels that support where the rents in your portfolio are right now? Or do you think that it may cause a shift in how you allocate capital in the city going forward? Well I mean if people are renting these units they're obviously qualifying with their income.
Yes and I think it's more -- when you just look at the different neighborhoods in town I think that's very telling to some degree.
I mean the Upper West Side has been a little soft for us.
But Williamsburg Brooklyn those are doing plus 8% 9% revenue growth.
So -- but even in midtown Upper West Side we have all different types of quality and price points available with our Parc Cameron Parc Coliseum assets.
You have Trump.
You have 101 West.
All those assets have various price points that could really fit or meet the needs of any renter [ph] I think.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the second question is on the acquisition disposition guidance you guys maintained it but it definitely seems like the disposition market has heated up a lot whereas the acquisition market is a lot tougher.
So your view is -- I mean obviously you maintained it so your view is that you can still keep it.
But it would almost seem like we could see you guys end up being net sellers this year just as the acquisition market is very competitive.
Is that a fair view? Or are you comfortable that there are enough off-market deals or what have you that there's still some attractive acquisition opportunities? I guess that remains to be seen.
I will tell you that we are beginning to see a reasonable increase in potential activity on the acquisition side.
I will tell you that that seems to be very aggressive in price.
So there remains to be seen what activity we'll have in pursuit of some of those opportunities.
But the disposition activity will be a function of the kind of reinvestment opportunities that we find.
So it's hard for me to answer that question Alex except to tell you that we are seeing potentially more assets being offered in the marketplace that we'd be happy to own.
It's just a question whether or not pricing makes sense for us relative to the dispositions that we'd incur in order to fund that.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So bottom line is you're not -- you wouldn't want to sell more and just take advantage of the current strong bid for assets? You want to do really matched transactions? That's correct.
We've discussed on multiple calls.
Now really our acquisition activity will be funded by the disposition activity.
And following the $4-plus billion of product that we sold last year we're not in any hurry have no immediate need to sell anything.
It'll just be a function of the reinvestment opportunity.
Our next question is from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just coming back to the housing market commentary.
Just -- we continue to see a slowdown in the overall housing market.
And just curious in terms of your outlook I mean what level of deceleration sort of was anticipated in the overall housing market? And if it continues to slow I mean does that add incremental potential upside for you guys? Well I guess I'll tell you that our expectations or our planning our budgeting for any one given year doesn't start with a sort of big macro view on single-family housing.
It's really just looking at each individual asset each individual submarket and what we think is going on in that market.
So the fact that fewer people are moving out of our apartments to buy single-family homes really doesn't surprise us much.
Nearly 50% of our units are occupied by a single individual.
I mean that's just -- we just don't have in our properties sort of the most common demographic that would be buying single-family homes that of 2 adults and a child.
I mean that represents about 9% of our units.
So I guess what's really going on in the greater housing market -- and I'll also tell you what's going on in the housing market in Atlanta in Phoenix in Las Vegas doesn't really concern us.
So as we look at the individual markets in which we've been concentrated and we've been focused we're not terribly surprised to see the numbers that we're seeing.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to go back to a couple of questions.
On dispositions just to Alex's question how much is actually being marketed right now? And is it more dependent upon the opportunities coming in? I mean is there a portfolio that you're marketing that you're just waiting to pull the trigger on right now? Or how should we look at that -- think about that? Well I guess I'm not quite sure why it matters Mike.
I mean we do have identified the assets that we would sell.
And so in order to make those ready to go we've got brokers' opinions of values.
We're prepared.
But in terms of actively marketing there's not a great deal.
We don't have a large number of assets that are being actively marketed out there.
But we know which ones they would be and we'd be able to get them to the market very quickly if we felt like we needed to or wanted to.
LLC Research Division</strong> But there's no tax situation or anything like that that would preclude you having you do a 1031 or anything like that? You could sell more if the opportunity arises.
No.
No the level of activity we would expect to do we could be doing without concerns of 1031.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's more of what I was getting at.
Mark what was -- what's debt pricing right now? And is there still -- is still the bond offering dialed in for the mid part of the year? Yes.
So we really put that Mike both in February and now the bond offering in the third quarter just for purposes of your modeling.
And we've got something like a 4% rate on that.
I think we would do better in the 10-year market by 20 basis points or so than that 4% number.
And we also have hedges that have a positive mark that would also lower the rate further.
But we're going to be flexible and opportunistic that may occur a little earlier may occur a little later it may not be an unsecured offering.
So -- but right now to answer your question about pricing the secured market is worse probably by at least 0.125% and probably 0.25%.
So again I think EQR could borrow at 3.80% on a 10-year basis or so in the unsecured market -- or 3.65% pardon me and 3.80% in the secured market.
So I do think the unsecured market is probably a little more favorable to us at the moment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
David Santee the 3% isn't that effective rent you quoted is that a lease-over-lease number like a blended number in the quarter for the quarter? And if not what was the actual rent change on leases signed in the first quarter? Yes the 3% is really just the net effective base rents that come out of LRO average for the whole portfolio.
The actual checkbook number like every year tends to be pretty flat because you're renting apartments at the lowest point in the cycle.
You have folks breaking leases that rented in the summer.
And so when you turn that lease you're operating at a negative gain to the previous lease amount.
So that number really for the last 7 years has always pretty much been 0 to very minimal growth in Q1.
LLC Research Division</strong> So no real change then year-over-year in terms of average...
Yes no real change.
I don't like to quote that number because I just don't think it's representative of the direction that the business is going.
It's just a anomaly that occurs in our business cycle.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
Just helpful just to gauge kind of how it's change -- how that -- how it's changing year-over-year though.
Our next question is from the line of Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to get a better understanding of the intricacies of Boston.
I was hoping maybe you could give us particular submarket information about renewal rates and as well as new rental rates what those trends look like for particular submarket? I couldn't give you any specific rates at the submarket level today.
But I can tell you that in the financial district where our 600 Washington community is you have probably 3 or 4 lease-ups in that immediate area.
That's probably the most impactful.
When you go over to West End where we have our large West End Charles River Park Emerson over by the Garden we're doing extremely well.
6% 5% 6% revenue growth.
Cambridge is doing well.
And I think if you take the numbers that I gave you those are pretty representative of the entire market other than the financial district where you have a lot of high-end luxury communities coming online pretty much all at the same time putting pressure on the immediate comps.
Research Division</strong> All right that's very helpful.
Then the other thing just some of the papers coming out in San Francisco about some new tenant protection ordinances in East Palo Alto.
Could we just talk about that a little bit and if that has any meaningful impact on your operation? None whatsoever.
Our next question is from the line of Vahid Khorsand with BWS Financial.
Could you provide some insight into how D.C.
is tracking compared to what you expected at the beginning of the year and where you think that market is headed for the rest of the year? Which market? Yes which...
The D.C.
market.
D.C? I guess I would say late last year I said that D.C.
at best would not go negative until Q2.
And would it have not been for a lower occupancy in Q1 we probably would have ended the quarter flat.
So other than being lower occupied rates did exactly what they thought and we just achieved -- arrived at minus 50 basis points about 2 months earlier than expected.
Okay.
And how do you think that's going to track for the rest of the year? Is it going to continue down the same path with lower occupancy than expected? Or will there be a swing upwards? Well like I said in my comments when we look at our -- when we look at the markets there's varying degrees of levels of deliveries in some of the submarkets the R-B Rosslyn-Ballston corridor has seen a lot of deliveries in the last couple of years.
They will continue to have deliveries.
But yet on a year-over-year revenue basis revenue growth basis that market is doing better than we expected.
Alexandria South Arlington the further you get away from downtown D.C.
it seems to be more problematic but you also have equal amounts of new product coming online there as well.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Well thank you all very much for your time and attention today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at the NAREIT meeting next month.
Thanks so much.
Ladies and gentlemen that does concludes our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Well good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Equity Residential 2Q '14 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's Second Quarter 2014 Results.
Our featured speakers today are: David Neithercut our President and CEO; David Santee our Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the [indiscernible] law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn it over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
And on our last call I told you that the EQR teams across the country had our properties very well positioned for the upcoming leasing season and that they were raring to go to maximize revenue during this very important time of the year.
Well here we are at the end of July with a couple months of the leasing season in the bank with August squarely in our sights and I'm once again pleased to say that our teams have delivered on their promise.
As we announced last night same-store revenues increased 4% for the first half of the year and 4.1% in the second quarter.
As a result we've increased our full year same-store revenue guidance to a midpoint of 4% which is at the high end of our original guidance provided in early February.
And we have also increased our normalized FFO guidance for the full year to a midpoint of $3.10 a share nearly 9% higher than last year and an annual increase that is among the largest we've experienced in the last 15 years.
And this is all because the fundamentals remain very very solid with continued strong demand for quality rental housing like that provided by Equity Residential.
We're also pleased that the continued strength in fundamentals is being experienced across nearly every one of our core markets.
Reaching the high end of our original same-store revenue guidance range is not due to any particular market or markets performing significantly better than what we'd expected but rather nearly every market performing above our baseline expectations and more towards our best-case expectations.
Across nearly every market our occupancy is closer to best case our retention is closer to best case and market rents and renewal rents are both better than we had expected even in those markets where there was some concern about new supply.
So we're very pleased about our performance so far this year and how things are shaping up for the entire year.
And with that I'll let David Santee our Chief Operating Officer discuss in more detail what we're currently seeing in each of our core markets and how we performed during this all-important leasing season.
And he'll be followed by Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer who will address our updated guidance and capital-raising activities.
Thank you David.
Good morning everyone.
Well it continues to be a great time to be in the apartment business as evidenced by our strong revenue performance in the quarter and first half of the year across our entire portfolio.
In general new deliveries that are coming to market are being leased up faster than expected while maintaining order and price discipline with concessions at stabilized assets almost nonexistent.
Continued improvement in job growth consumer sentiment and added lift both revenue and expenses from the inclusion of the Archstone portfolio [Audio Gap] guidance for the year.
Today I'll provide color on our 4 key revenue drivers briefly discuss our expense drivers and then update you on each of our core markets.
To date all 4 of our key performance indicators are stronger than expected.
Net effective base rents have consistently exceeded our original expectations by almost 50 basis points and are currently 4.7% above same week last year.
Renewal increases originally expected to moderate slightly below 5% have consistently exceeded 5% and accelerated from 5.4% in Q1 to 5.5% in Q2.
With a 5.9% achieved on the books for July and August currently at 5.5% which we know that will improve throughout the month we should exceed our full year renewal growth expectations by 60 to 75 basis points.
Turnover for the quarter declined again from 14.4% in 2013 to 14.2%.
If you recall in the previous quarters we discussed our lease expiration management and moving more leases from Q4 and Q1 into Q2.
So seeing a decline in both percentage and absolute terms in Q2 is even more meaningful as residents are less inclined to move from quality buildings and neighborhoods that shape their lifestyle.
With July stats on the books and notice to vacates given through August and September it appears that turnover will continue to decline driven largely by fewer move-outs to buy homes.
In fact move-outs to buy homes declined over flat quarter-over-quarter across all of our major markets with San Francisco being the only exception which had 3 more move-outs to buy homes.
Occupancy improved 20 basis points for the quarter to 95.8% which puts us right on top of our full year guidance of 95.5%.
Expenses for the quarter were up 1.4% allowing us to make up some ground after the brutal utility expense for Q1.
Excluding real estate taxes all other expenses declined 1.05% driven by our expected savings from the inclusion of the Archstone portfolio and a more efficient property management operation.
As a result of staffing and process optimizations across the Archstone portfolio on-site payroll costs for those assets were down 3.2% for the quarter and 10.2% year-to-date.
In the maintenance category again just for the Archstone communities turn costs were down 32% for the quarter and 40% year-to-date as a result of implementing our turnover philosophy which emphasizes the use of in-house labor versus contract services.
Additionally the close proximity of both Archstone and legacy assets have allowed us to optimize our Internet spend and reduce L&amp;A cost across the combined portfolio by almost 20% for the quarter and 17.5% year-to-date.
As we discussed previously the favorable contribution to same-store expense reduction for the Archstone assets will diminish as we move further into the year and begin to realize stabilized comp periods.
Real estate taxes which account for 35% of total expense remain unchanged at a 6.2% full year growth rate.
And we are confident that this number is a worst-case scenario allowing us to tighten the total expense growth range between 2.25% and 2.75%.
And moving on to our markets.
We continue to maintain our 3 buckets of revenue performance with the top bucket consisting of Seattle San Francisco and Denver producing revenue growth in excess of 5%.
The middle bucket of 3% to 5% revenue growth includes all other markets excluding D.C.
which is in a bucket by itself with a projected revenue decline of 1% for the full year.
So starting in the Northwest Seattle continues its outsized performance with robust job growth and a per capita income 23% higher than the national average.
Boeing Amazon and Microsoft continue to provide a solid economic foundation.
Our 2 lease-ups are above pro forma rent and well ahead on occupancy.
320 Pine a 134-unit presale acquisition went from 0% occupancy in February to 99% occupancy in June.
Our Central Business District Bellevue and Redmond submarkets lead the way with plus 7% revenue growth year-to-date.
There are marginal differences when looking at other in-town submarkets versus the suburbs as all submarkets are producing average year-to-date revenue growth of 6.5%.
While the recent Microsoft layoffs were troubling at first the direct impact of the announced local reductions should have little impact in the Redmond submarket.
With new deliveries in Redmond already leased and only 350 being delivered in 2015 Redmond should do just fine barring any further negative news.
Denver continues the outperformance despite delivering almost 10 000 units.
With a high concentration of new deliveries downtown growth in our CBD submarket is a meager 4.3% while our well-diversified suburban submarkets range from 7% to plus 9% year-to-date.
San Francisco continues to be the lead market for the fourth consecutive year.
Net effective new lease rents and renewals achieved continued to be in the 9% to 11% range and we see no signs of a slowdown.
Even with elevated deliveries the level of supply is simply not sufficient to meet demand from the continued tech boom.
The Peninsula submarket continues to produce the highest revenue growth followed by our downtown portfolio.
However the East Bay appears to be accelerating as renters look for more affordable housing.
Los Angeles continues to perform well and as expected.
Despite new deliveries being concentrated in the downtown and Mid-Wilshire corridor submarkets these 2 areas are accelerating and producing the largest revenue growth of our 8 L.A.
submarkets with 5.5% and 5.4% year-to-date respectively.
Our weakest growth is coming from Santa Clarita and West L.A primarily in and around the Marina del Rey area.
With such a diverse and improving economy we would expect L.A.
to continue its positive momentum with above-trend growth for an extended period of time.
Orange County continues to produce accelerating growth as a result of few deliveries and well-diversified job gains.
Move-outs to buy homes have declined in Orange County more than any other market about 400 basis points.
And it appears that both future supply and expected job growth are perfectly in sync over the next several years.
San Diego with 3 000 deliveries is realizing price pressure downtown our lowest revenue growth submarket.
The I-5 and the I-15 corridor submarkets continue to do well as minimal supply and decent job growth provide a stable operating environment.
Moving over to the East Coast.
Boston like Denver is feeling the effects of a concentration of new deliveries in the urban core although neighborhood and price points can produce dramatically different results.
With 6 000 units being delivered across the Boston MSA and more than half of those in the financial district there are pricing pressures at our assets that compete head-to-head with new product.
We also have assets in that same submarket that are somewhat insulated from new deliveries that allow our in-town submarket to lead all other Boston submarkets with year-to-date growth of 4.6%.
All other suburban markets show no signs of outsized growth in the near term as future development begins to move back to the suburbs.
Additionally our significant parking garage operations can impact reported revenue growth depending upon the postseason success of the professional sports teams.
Our reported number of 2.8% revenue growth includes those garage performance numbers.
Stripping this out residential results only were 3.2% for the quarter and 3.4% year-to-date and 2.4% sequentially.
Jumping down to New York.
The pause button is off and the music is playing once again.
After seeing rents flat for most of 2013 net effective base rents have bounced between 3% and 5% growth for much of the year.
Occupancy has improved 20 basis points year-to-date.
Demand has picked up noticeably and we appear to be on solid footing once again.
Downtown Brooklyn leads our portfolio in submarket revenue growth year-to-date at 6.5%.
The Upper West Side at 2% is lagging all other submarkets.
However most all New York City submarkets appear to have accelerating revenue growth as rental rate growth shows favorable [indiscernible].
South Florida.
Well the cranes are back and record prices are being paid for land.
Miami-Dade leads the charge across the three-county metro area as wealthy South Americans continue to expand the job base by [indiscernible] their businesses in Miami.
All 7 of our three-county submarkets are performing similarly as new supply is manageable in the proving economy.
Washington D.C.
continues to perform as expected.
With lackluster job growth and outsized supply positive revenue growth for the metro area continues to be elusive although net effective base rents across our 8 submarkets can be up 2% one week and down 2% the next.
Occupancy and current exposure are all favorable as demand for quality apartments in great locations remained steady and our current residents are staying put as move-outs for the first half of the year are down more than 400 basis points while we continue to achieve renewal increases above 3%.
For D.C.
metro submarkets the Maryland suburbs lead the way.
Year-to-date PG County and the I-270 corridor continue to enjoy positive revenue growth while South Arlington and Alexandria bring up the rear at minus 2.2% and 1.5% -- 1.56% respectively.
Our district portfolio is negative 58 basis points year-to-date but August billings are positive 11 basis points versus last August.
As we look back to our original guidance we believed that many of the markets could absorb the new deliveries without major disruption.
So far they have.
We also thought that if we could see improved job growth that we could produce better revenue results and we have.
And finally we knew we had significant opportunity to optimize the Archstone portfolio and deliver exceptional results and we did which altogether give us the confidence in raising our guidance for the full year.
Mark? Thank you David.
I want to take a few minutes this morning to review our revised guidance for the year and to give the group some background on our recent debt raise and its impact on our balance sheet.
We have provided revised guidance for our same-store metrics as well as our normalized FFO per share for the year.
We now expect to produce normalized FFO of $3.08 to $3.12 per share.
And that's up $0.02 or about 1% at the midpoint from our prior range.
This growth in normalized FFO as David Santee just described is being fueled by our expectation of better-than-expected growth in our net operating income and that's both in the same-store set and the lease-up set offset by about $0.02 per share of additional interest expense as a result of our recent debt deal.
Our previous guidance included a smaller debt deal later in the year than the one we ended up doing.
On the transaction activity side we did not change our guidance assumptions on volume or cap rate spread.
And there was no net impact on our revised normalized FFO guidance from transactions.
David Santee reviewed the factors driving our same-store expectations.
And I'm pleased to say that we have increased our targeted range on our same-store revenues to 3.9% to 4.1%.
And that's up from 3% to 4% from our February guidance.
And we've narrowed our expectations on expense growth to a range of 2.25% to 2.75%.
And that all results in an expected net operating income range of 4.5% to 5%.
And this continues the strong growth we have produced over the last several years and that we continue to expect to deliver.
And as a reminder the Archstone assets we acquired last year had been in our same-store numbers this year since the beginning of the year both in our sequential quarterly and year-to-date same-store sets.
In June on the debt side we decided to take advantage of the incredibly attractive rates that were available to us.
And we went ahead and issued $1.2 billion of unsecured debt.
And we issued 2 pieces of debt.
We issued our first true 30-year debt piece and a 5-year issuance.
We issued $450 million of unsecured 5-year bonds at an interest rate of 2.4%.
And we issued $750 million of 30-year unsecured bonds at an interest rate of 4.54%.
We used the proceeds from this offering to repay our $750 million term loan facility which was scheduled to mature in January of 2015 and to repay the amounts outstanding on our line of credit.
These issuances were very well-received by our fixed income investors particularly the 30-year issuance.
In fact the 30-year bond was issued at the lowest interest rate and the lowest spread above treasuries of any 30-year bond every issued by a REIT while the 5-year bond issue was priced at near-record low levels.
The 5-year bonds were swapped to floating and we will therefore actually be paying an all-in rate of LIBOR plus about 75 basis points.
And right now all-in that would be around 1% on the $450 million in 5-year bonds that we issued.
About 11% of our debt now carries a floating rate.
As we draw on our revolver during the balance of the year to repay our September bond maturity and to fund development floating rate debt will increase until it is about 16% of total debt.
And that's right in our 15% to 20% target zone for floating rate debt as compared to total debt.
And at the end of the year I expect our revolver to have a $550 million balance.
There were several advantages in our minds to issuing this debt now.
The term loan facility was about 50 basis points more costly than the swapped rate on the 5-year notes so we do have some immediate cost savings.
But more importantly our long-term cost of capital was reduced with such a cheap piece of long-term debt.
Also these issuances extended the weighted average maturity of our debt to 7.9 years which is the longest in the apartment space and one of the longest among all large REITs.
When rates do begin to rise this will be a big advantage to us.
Finally by completing all our 2014 debt refinancing activities and a large portion of our 2015 refinancing activities now we are in an even better liquidity and funding position over the next couple of years.
And now I'll turn the call back over to David Neithercut.
All right.
Thanks Mark.
Clearly we remain very excited about the strength and fundamentals that we continue to experience across our markets.
And we're going to remain confident that due to a very favorable demographic picture and continued improvement in the overall economy that we have a lot of runway yet ahead of us for continued favorable revenue and NOI growth which will result in strong growth and normalized FFO and dividend payments and total shareholder return for years to come.
So I just want to make a couple of comments about transaction development activity.
We did buy a couple of properties in the second quarter as noted in the release.
In Seattle we closed on a deal that we'd put under contract in 2011 before construction commenced.
And that was the 134 units that David Santee mentioned which we acquired for $36 million.
Recently completed and 67% occupied at closing it's now fully leased and occupied.
It should stabilize at a return in the mid-6s.
And that deal would trade at a cap rate today in the low 4s.
And we also acquired 208 units in Glendale California about a block from GGP's highly productive Glendale Galleria property.
We acquired that property for $70.5 million.
It was built in 2013 and was 81% occupied at closing.
Today that deal is 91% leased and 87% occupied and should stabilize at a yield of 5%.
The one property we sold in the quarter was in Orlando Florida 336 units that we sold for $41 million.
And in our press release we reflect the yield that we sold of being one of 6.7% and we refer to that as the cap rate.
The true cap rate however that being the yield that the buyer acquired would be closer to 6% when adjustments are made for real estate taxes and insurance.
Now as Mark said our guidance for the year remains to buy $500 million of assets and sell $500 million at a cap rate spread of 100 basis points.
That said I'll tell you we are seeing a lot more product in the market a lot of which we'd very happy to own by trading them with -- into them with proceeds from noncore assets.
But bidding remains very competitive and pricing remains very aggressive.
So if we're able to find more investment opportunities that make sense for us relative to the assets we desire to sell and that's an important caveat then our transaction activity this year could exceed current guidance.
Interestingly if that were to happen though the cap rate spread might actually decrease or narrow because the incremental assets we might sell will be less desirable assets in our core markets.
And these would trade at lower cap rates than the assets we've been selling in our exit markets.
Real quickly on development.
While we may not have completed nor started any projects this past quarter there was and remains a great deal of activity taking place.
And we currently expect to complete another $254 million of development deals yet this year which will bring total completions to $621 million or so for the full year.
Starts this year currently look like they'll come in around $1 billion.
That's slightly higher than our original expectations which simply means that some early 2015 starts could now occur in late 2014.
And that would suggest additional starts yet this year totaling about $500 million.
During the second quarter we acquired one land site also in the Capitol Hill neighborhood due east of downtown Seattle for 140 units which we'll develop for a total cost of about $45 million.
That deal should -- would yield about a 5% at current rents today and we'd expect to stabilize somewhere in the low to mid-6s.
And with this newly-acquired land parcel to our inventory and assuming we do get to $1 billion in starts this year that would then mean we'd have about 5 development projects that we'd start next year for 1 200 units at a total construction cost of nearly $600 million.
And similarly those deals would lease at current rents in the mid-5s and stabilize yields in the low to mid-6s.
So with that said operator we'll be happy to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll hear first from Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> To issue 30-year debt.
What made you change your mind on that? Nick it's Mark Parrell.
Did you ask why did we decide to issue 30-year debt? You were cut off there.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
David you talked in the past about maybe reluctance to actually issue 30-year debt.
So I'm wondering what changed.
Yes.
Well it's Mark Parrell.
We have been thinking about it a while Nick.
And it's been attractive for awhile but particularly so the last few months.
And we've always thought it's a great way to match these long-hold assets we have that we've built and we've bought lately with a long-term low cost of capital.
And our anxiety always centered on the covenants the meaningful covenants that exist in REIT bonds in just binding ourselves for 30 years who knows what will change in that period of time? But as you look at a rate as well as we were able to get at 4.5% and you look at the average rate the treasury has been so imagine 10 years from now we want to repay these bonds.
We did a little research and even in the low-interest climate we've been in lately the last 20 years about 2/3 of the time the 20-year treasury has been at or higher than 4.5% meaning we'd have no prepayment penalty.
So in our minds just boiling it all down we were getting a great piece of debt.
And there is a pretty fair probability that in the future the company would have the opportunity to take it out for a small or no prepayment penalty if we ever needed to do that.
So again we think it's a great piece of capital to have in the structure long term.
Research Division</strong> And then can you talk about what you're seeing in D.C.
in terms of the transaction market and if there's any opportunities to acquire there? Well we've seen a little bit of transaction activity other than a couple of deals that have traded before any lease-up occurred to avoid the TOPA transaction issues.
But I will tell you that I'm not quite sure I can define any of that as an opportunity.
We think those were still very aggressively priced.
So not unlike what David has said just in terms of total operations things are going reasonably well in D.C.
given the supply.
We're just not seeing a great deal of transaction activity at prices that we would consider to be opportunistic.
Nick Yulico with UBS has the next question.
Research Division</strong> Just turning to your guidance and your outlook on the markets.
I mean if you look it sounds like D.C.
got a little bit worse in the second quarter.
New York City got a lot better.
West Coast was still very good and Boston got a little bit weaker.
How are you expecting those markets to play out in the second half of the year? Is it going to be something similar? And what's the big sort of variance -- where could the big variance to your guidance be? Is it Boston getting weaker D.C.
getting weaker or New York City getting even better? This is David Santee.
We've already issued renewals out through August and September.
And really when you just look at the flow of the numbers once you lock down September it's really hard to move the full year numbers.
And really the only way to move the full year numbers significantly would be having a significant drop in occupancy.
So that's why we're confident in our range in our very tight range.
Research Division</strong> And then your occupancy comps I'm assuming you feel pretty good about in the second half of the year? Yes.
I mean we already have notices through September.
Those are normal to lower than last year which would imply we maintained the same level of occupancy.
And then really there are so few transactions in the fourth quarter relative to the full year it's just very hard to move the full-year-number.
Research Division</strong> And then just turning to the development pipeline can you just remind us where you're expecting the stabilized yields for the pipeline in place today and whether you've now think that those yields could be higher than you thought they were say last year? Well I guess everything that we delivered last year is probably performing better than expectations just because for all the comments David had said about how well we're doing in our markets.
What we're working on today starting today and expect to start is really a story of 5s and 6s.
It's a story of deals yielding at current rents somewhere in the 5s and we think are stabilized 2 years or so out or 3 years out in the 6s.
Research Division</strong> And is that consistent with the existing pipeline? Or is the existing pipeline yield a little bit higher? Well the existing pipeline you mean those things under construction today? Research Division</strong> Yes that's right.
And what's been recently delivered.
What's been recently completed would be in excess of that.
Right so anything to start in 2011 is really gangbusters.
Everything you start in 2012 would be a little lesser than et cetera et cetera.
So now it's down to a point where anything started today would yield in the 5s at current rents and again we would expect to yield at 6%.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And just one last question David.
You mentioned acquisitions maybe being more attractive today yet there's a significant spread where you could be buying at a lower initial yield than where you're selling.
How do you balance that if you're also trying to create earnings growth? I mean that sounds like that would be a dilutive process.
Well no company knows more about that than Equity Residential after all the activity we've taken place and we've conducted over the past half a dozen or so years.
But that's certainly part of the balancing process.
And we would balance that as I noted in my opening comments by selling assets in core markets that would be less desirable assets.
And we would sell those at lower cap rates than exit markets.
And again I don't -- didn't mean to suggest that we thought acquisitions were more attractive.
What I suggested was that we expected to see more opportunity but what we are seeing today remains very very competitively sought for and pricing to be very aggressive.
So we're going to see more product.
We'll see if we're able to make sense of the pricing of that product relative to the proceeds and yields we'll be able to sell and raise capital assets to your point because we do want to manage that dilution.
Our sort of pledge to the market has been that the dilution experience is part of this transformation that we've taken place over the past 6 years or so will slow considerably.
And we aim to deliver on that.
Moving on to Dave Bragg with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The cost savings that you outlined as having achieved on the Archstone portfolio are pretty impressive especially considering that Archstone was considered to be a good operator.
Can you talk about how those compare to the general cost savings opportunities you see in the broader transaction market? Were you able to save more or less on that integration than what you generally expect as you underwrite deals? I would say typically we -- it's hard to look back and say what we actually say because we don't really have new acquisitions' previous results so to speak.
I mean we just underwrite it.
But I would say typically what we see are the 3 areas of opportunity are always leasing and advertising payroll and turn costs.
I can't say that most acquisitions produce that degree of savings.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the transaction market David can you just talk about why you think that you're seeing more opportunities than you expected this year? What's the nature of the sellers? Are these...
I think pricing has been very strong and I think sellers of assets that think that they will likely want to monetize their interests sometime in the near future are thinking this might be a good time.
And a lot of that feedback comes from the brokerage network that do let us know that they've been requested by sellers to give their opinions of value.
And normally when more of those inquiries are made that then does produce more deals coming to the marketplace.
So I will say however though that there have been several instances in which properties have been pulled back from market because the perhaps sellers' overly-inflated expectations failed to be met.
But the brokerages are telling us more is coming.
We are certainly seeing more.
And I think it's just more of a desire of shorter-term holders thinking today would be a great opportunity to monetize their equity investment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what's the landscape for portfolio purchase opportunities? There have been a few out there.
Some concentrations in some markets and then some larger portfolios of disparate assets across lots of markets some of which would be considered as sort of noncore from our perspective.
But I would not say that there has been an abundant amount of sort of larger portfolios.
There have been just a small handful.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last question is as you talk about starting to sell some of the noncore assets or less desirable assets within your core markets can you just walk us through the process in which you analyze your own portfolio and discuss the attributes to some of the assets that you might be selling from these markets? Are they older? Are they more suburban? Any insight like that would be great.
Yes and yes.
All right.
They remain older assets and more the sort of suburban circus park garden kind of product.
Suburban D.C.
is an example Inland Empire some stuff in various submarkets of Southern California maybe even of Seattle.
So if there are assets that ultimately we know that because of their age and location might not be long-term holds for us and if there are opportunities to sell those at attractive yields relative to what we can buy we'd be more than happy to make those trades.
But there's no pressing need to do so today.
Jana Galan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch has the next question.
Research Division</strong> For David Santee can you comment on what the new lease rent growth was in July? New lease rent I have it for the quarter which was 5.5%.
Research Division</strong> And then any comments on As versus Bs within your portfolio? Well when I look at our results and I tried to allude to that in my prepared remarks I guess I would just say "It depends." It depends on what the -- where you are in the market what type of supply you have what type of new product is coming online.
We have some of our best-performing urban assets in Boston are B communities.
Some of our best-performing assets in Seattle are B communities.
So it's really a mix of location which I think is becoming more and more critical.
I think people are looking for a place that is going to shape their lifestyle.
Neighborhood is ultra important.
And I think if you're in those neighborhoods both As and Bs will perform equally well.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just a quick question on the transaction market.
Just maybe David your view on whether you're seeing any -- there's only a small amount of portfolios but whether those are looking like they would get premiums.
Or could they actually be at a little bit of a discount because there's only a limited number of buyers that could take down a very large portfolio? Well it doesn't take an awful lot of buyers.
It only takes 2.
And I think it's very possible you could see some premium pricing on those portfolios because of size.
Again there's an awful lot of capital chasing few deals in the space.
And if one has a desire to get capital out in the multifamily segment a large portfolio may be a way to do that.
And that could result in maybe some modest premium pricing.
Moving on to Ryan Peterson with Sandler O'Neill.
You've talked about your ability to grow rents this quarter.
There seems to be a lull in land large ability [ph] to push rents at the end of '13 the beginning of this year.
Do you think that was seasonal? Or did it just take some time for renters to adapt to the new asking levels? I would say in general there is -- at the top level portfolio level there is definitely seasonality in the pricing.
We track that.
We've tracked it for the last 8 years.
And basically rents call it rents drift off 3% to 5% in Q4 and Q1 just because of lack of demand.
And then on a separate note do you think there's going to be a trend of more condo and apartment deals like yours at Toll Brothers? And if not what are the challenges that would limit more of these deals? Well I guess it's -- we've had a very successful transaction that we've done with Toll Brothers.
And I will tell you we have had numerous conversations with others on similar opportunities.
But a lot of things have to come together.
Pricing for the apartments have to make sense.
Pricing for the condos have to make sense.
The totality needs to make sense relative to the land pricing et cetera et cetera.
And so I'm not -- I would not be surprised to see more of that not unlike mixed-use projects you've seen.
We've got a lovely property in Manhattan that's above a hotel for instance.
I think it's a great way to share cost and to mitigate risk.
But again it's just one of those things that's got to come together.
It just adds more complexity and more moving parts that just makes it more difficult to accomplish.
We'll now hear from Ryan Bennett with Zelman &amp; Associates.
LLC</strong> I appreciate the color by submarkets in your prepared remarks.
Just curious where you see the peak of new deliveries across your submarkets now versus what you saw probably at the beginning of the year.
Well you mean for '14? LLC</strong> Yes.
I guess when you're expecting the highest number of deliveries across your submarkets.
Yes.
So I think that the easiest way to look at it is just the calendar year.
I mean when we kind of review each of these markets on a quarterly basis which we did last week it was clear that about 60% -- we're about 60% of the way through our deliveries at the top level so -- which means you have 40% to go.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And how do you see that playing out into 2015? Does the comp get significantly better across your submarkets based on the data that you have? Well I guess I would say we made some minor changes to deliveries this year.
But they're only going to be pushed into 2015.
So when you look at 2014 and 2015 combined the totals haven't really changed.
So we would expect declines in deliveries next year.
And hopefully with continued improving job growth a great GDP number today that the economy will continue to improve and we'll continue down this path of absorbing units with relatively little disruption to our day-to-day business.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then just to follow up.
I think in your prepared comments you mentioned Boston is typically seeing some increasing development shifting back towards the suburbs.
Have you seen that in any other of your major markets? Yes.
So when you -- probably the most obvious is Washington D.C.
You start to see development move back out to Reston and outside the Beltway beginning next year and beyond.
Every other market not so much.
The next question comes from Richard Anderson with Mizuho.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple maybe smaller events that maybe tell a bigger story.
The first is to Mark Parrell swapping to floating.
It seems like you're getting a little greedy there.
Can you talk about that strategy to go floating from a good rate to begin with? Our thought -- we have a strategy on that Rich.
I mean what we're trying to do is avail ourselves of 2 different points on that debt cost curve.
And long is great 30-year is terrific.
And the other side we like is LIBOR.
We think being floating rate and being short when LIBOR is 25 basis points and feels like for the near term it'll be around that number that feels pretty good to us.
And I think with the kind of portfolio we have with the lease growth we expect if rates do go up because as David Santee just alluded to we have more growth then I think the revenue line and the interest expense line item will move in sync and it will all make good sense.
So I guess I would say I don't get particularly greedy about that.
I think that was part of the strategy.
And we take[indiscernible].
Yes.
I mean we're incrementally down on floating rate debt.
We're lower than most of the guys in the apartment space right now.
But we'll end up at about 15% 16% by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to the land purchase in Seattle despite the nice GDP number today it seems like there and elsewhere you're kind of operating fundamentally at a hyper level -- good solid demand offsetting increases in supply.
And I'm just curious with Seattle in particular you have a lot of supply going on.
The rationale to continue developing that market maybe is that -- what's the thought process there? I mean it seems like it's been great but maybe again getting a little greedy.
Well again we've got a very low relatively low percentage of our income coming out of that marketplace.
This was just about a $45 million total cost project so not quite sure how a $35 billion company can be greedy with a $45 million development deal.
And then I also suggested that in response to one of the other questions that some of what we may sell maybe some suburban Seattle stuff.
I mean what we're building is kind of downtown close-in in Capitol Hill in South Lake Union in Ballard downtown.
So we like those locations.
And as David said we're performing very well in those locations.
So again at less than 7% current NOI exposure I'm not quite sure that doing a $45 million deal is getting us over our skis in Seattle.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then bigger picture David the 2 deals in the second quarter acquisitions were kind of a value-add sort of swing to it with buying some vacancy.
Do you think that will be more and more a part of the acquisition story for you to get reasonable pricing on deals to take on a little bit of lease-up risk in the front end? Well the one deal we put under contract in 2011 so it was not a recent decision on that.
The one deal we did buy in Glendale was that.
And we bought vacant properties maybe half a dozen vacant properties.
So I think that anything that we do that we believe gives us a competitive advantage to buy a property at a more attractive price is something that we'll do.
So we're certainly not afraid of that.
And that again was an example of someone looking to monetize their interest in a good market and not willing to sort of wait the extra 6 months or year for a deal to get stabilized.
And we're happy to be there to take advantage of that.
And again we'd buy the deal at stabilized 5% then trade it at a low 4% maybe even a high 3%.
So it's one way a company of our size can take advantage of our balance sheet to maybe get a premium return.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question maybe for Santee.
30 -- I'm sorry $20 million in incremental rental revenue second quarter versus first quarter understanding the seasonality issues and the strong performance during the quarter.
But is that a good number? Or is there anything kind of lumpy in the second quarter revenue number top line? Just pure good revenue Rich.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So my NAV is now $80.
Vahid Khorsand with BWS Financial has the next question.
First question on the Washington D.C.
market it looks like it's stable but has -- could grow and could improve.
Is that what it looks like to you? Well D.C.
we have what 20 000 deliveries this year? We're roughly 60% through that.
However when I look at our billings today we are for the month minus 10 basis points.
So we are seeing better occupancy.
We are seeing the net effective base rents stabilize.
I mean as I mentioned some weeks they can be up 2%.
Next week they could be down 1%.
It really just depends on what's available and where and to what degree that impacts the portfolio.
But I guess I would say that I'm very pleased with how D.C.
is behaving.
And if the next 6 months are like the last 6 months then I think we're setting the stage for some reasonable stable performance.
With that in mind do you think we're approaching a timeframe where you might be looking to add assets in the D.C.
market? Yes I responded to a similar question earlier suggesting that what we've seen in terms of pricing what's taken place is that there have been not anything we define as opportunity.
So I don't think that's a market that we're going to be pursuing at the current time.
But we never say never.
If not unlike the lease-up deals we just did we found something that we thought we could do at a premium we may very well do that.
And we'd pair that with a sale of something onto the suburban market so that net exposure would not increase.
Okay.
And my final question on the leasing and advertising line what do you attribute to the drop that seems to be happening every quarter on that? Is that related to the efficiencies through the Archstone deal? Or is that something else? Well I guess I would say that it's related to the Archstone inclusion.
However the savings is spread across the entire legacy portfolio.
And probably the best example if you go to New York City where we have 2 properties right across the street Archstone used to be in ForRent in Apartments.com and what-have-you.
And we would have our property in all those same 3 or 4 ILSs.
And basically what we do is we go in and we optimize so that perhaps the Archstone property goes from 4 ILSs down to 2.
And our property goes from 4 ILSs down to 2.
And we'd cross-sell those properties on our website so you're basically eliminating half of your ILS spend due to the closed proximity of the assets.
We'll now hear from George Hoglund with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I just have 2 questions.
The first one is on Orange County.
Since it's had some strong performance this year so far they've got increasing supply coming on in the first half of '15 how do you view that market being able to absorb that supply? It's -- we've seen extremely good job growth in Orange County.
I would say that there's maybe 1 or 2 large deals that could have some short-term impact.
But we feel very comfortable that that market can absorb the supply that's on the books as of today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the second question is with the homebuilders moving moreso into the multifamily development how do you view that going forward as sort of impacting things in terms of will it be moreso deals like your existing deal with Toll? Or do you think that it will be moreso homebuilders just doing these deals on their own? And do you think this will have a significant pressure on supply or potential pressure on supply going forward? Well from what we understand from my conversations with the few that are doing it is it's more of the latter.
It's just them thinking it's a good business for them to be in directly.
But I think thus far it's really been in markets in which they've got large single-family home presences and just really haven't bumped up [indiscernible].
It's a lot of Sunbelt product that we just don't think competes with us.
So at the present time we don't see it as a competitive threat to us.
We'll now hear from Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> It's Michael Bilerman.
I just had a couple of quick follow-ups.
One is just sort of capital structure.
If your thinking has evolved on the 30-year debt I'm curious how you're thinking is on common equity.
And the reason I ask is when you did the Archstone deal you obviously issued a billing in the call it -- I think it was $54.75-ish [ph] if I remember correctly stock is up north of 20% since then.
I guess how do you think about using equity? If you can't find the dispositions or you haven't brought stuff to market and you find some acquisition opportunities would you use equity? It's certainly [indiscernible] in our quarter.
I guess we're at a point Michael where we continue to have some odds and ends of assets that we'd like to use as the capital to provide proceeds to buy whatever we think we may like to do out there.
I don't think there's anything that's terribly important or strategic or overly compelling for us at the current juncture.
So my guess is our expectation would be to buy with what we can with what we can sell to buy assets at these prices and issue stocks at these prices.
I mean maybe there's some modest kind of arbitrage in there but over 375 million shares I'm not quite sure that there's a whole lot of purpose there.
But we certainly do look at all of the [indiscernible] capital -- all of the different segments of capital.
And Mark and his team have done a great job across the debt side.
And obviously we're very pleased with where our stock is today and have that be at a place where it might make sense to actually do that.
But again that's also a function of what [indiscernible] you can buy and what the right proceeds.
And we always consider all of those options.
Research Division</strong> I guess there's no need for what you have on your plate today to even tap the ATM? That's correct.
I mean our development pipeline as Mark has said over the past several calls between free cash flow the disposition of proceeds we can manage the pipeline of development that we have.
So we are not obligated to go into the market to address them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I assume there's been no change or evolution in terms of how you're thinking about some of the adjuncts to housing whether it be single-family rental student housing senior housing.
There hasn't been any shift in your or Sam's thinking on any of that has there? That's correct.
There has been no shifts.
We looked at single-family years ago and didn't see it as anything but a distraction.
And as we think about the markets we're in today the assets we own and operate they're attractive to students.
They're attractive to seniors.
And we don't think we need to move into sort of purpose-built product to access those 2 segments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just last one on conversion to condos anything that you're sort of working on where you can sort of raise capital that would be a pretty low effective cap rate? I know you talked about selling some potential core assets -- noncore assets in core markets but I'm curious as the conversion play.
Well so far I think that's been a little bit more talk than action.
I think that certainly we look at our assets and there could be condominium premium embedded in those.
But so far that's probably been more talk.
We've seen pricing on the post trade that seemed to have been gone off at some kind of premium.
Again a lot of that is a function of what are you going to do with the proceeds because those have to be reinvested.
But certainly it's something that we're thoughtful of and keeping an eye on.
Research Division</strong> Can you do that on any of Upper West Side buildings the Trump buildings? You mean structurally? Research Division</strong> Well I just think the pricing of what Extell is doing.
Say it again? Research Division</strong> The pricing of what Extell is building south of that obviously would mean a very high value as condos for some of those buildings.
Well obviously that's extremely brand-new product being built to a particular spec.
You can't necessarily extrapolate that directly to a product that was built as apartments that could be now 15 years ago.
But clearly we're aware of what's happening and the timing of activity around our properties.
I'll also sort of tell you that much of what you read about condos in a place like New York City with a very high-end luxury large price point stop and you read very little about what's happening at the more middle range.
But it's something we'll keep a close eye on.
And our next question will come from Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-ups there.
David Santee you mentioned a 5.5% on new leases.
I think that was second quarter.
Do you have the -- is that a year-to-date? Or do you have a lease-over-lease rate there? And then also given the occupancy and lower move-outs that you're seeing can you talk about the strategy with new leases in the back half of the year whether you expect to continue to hold that out a bit more or you expect that to follow more normal seasonality? Yes I'm glad you asked that question because I quoted the renewal rate at 5.5% 5.5% versus the new lease.
So the base rent year-over-year is 4%.
So new leases are 4% renewals are 5.5% and then the combined for Q2 is 4.1%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then how does that translate to the back half of the year strategy in terms of new lease rates? Do you expect anything different relative to the normal seasonality we've seen the last couple of years? No I think what we see year after year is that rates will drift down.
I mean we are attempting as we discussed previously to minimize those expirations in Q4 to minimize that drift in both the occupancy and rental rate.
In a place like D.C.
we're probably going to be a little more defensive in maintaining that occupancy only because we're not done yet.
We still have another year of big deliveries.
And the stronger we can maintain occupancy in a market that's delivering units the more pricing power or the less susceptible we are to having to give concessions.
So that will be our strategy in that market.
But typically the seasonal pattern is identical year after year after year.
It's just -- but what we see is that we see the same gaps.
So if rents are up 4% today we would expect that -- those rents to drift off but still be 4% above last year in Q4.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then David just the $500 million you've identified as your acquisition and disposition target how much of that has actually been identified at this point? You talked about a potentially large pipeline.
But just curious of the opportunities you're looking at today how much of that has been identified? I mean I guess enough of it that we think that the $500 million and $500 million can and will be achieved.
And I guess again my comment is we think that as the year progresses there will be more opportunity and perhaps we'll have an opportunity to identify more.
But as we looked at what was kicking around out there that we were working on under contract et cetera we've felt confident that $500 million and $500 million was still doable.
And gentlemen we have no further questions.
Mr.
McKenna I'll turn the conference back to you for closing or additional remarks.
All right.
Thank you all very much.
Enjoy August and the rest of summer.
And I'm sure we'll see a lot of you around in September.
Thanks for joining us today.
And again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Equity Residential 3Q 2014 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Pam.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's third quarter results.
Our featured speakers today are: David Neithercut our President and CEO; and David Santee our Chief Operating Officer.
Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer is also with us for the Q&amp;A.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn it over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for our call.
As we've said for quite some time that we're very confident.
The impact on multifamily fundamentals by the millennial generation and their desire to live in high density urban environments with the flexibility and optionality provided by rental housing would produce an extended runway of growth for our portfolio.
That is certainly what we are seeing today and expect to see for the foreseeable future.
Thanks to a great leasing season and the hard work of our teams across the country we expect to deliver same-store revenue growth for the full year of 4.1% which is above our original expectations and at the high end of our most recent guidance.
This comes from continued exceptional growth from usual suspects markets that are enjoying strong job growth and are highly attractive to young millennials such as San Francisco Seattle and Denver along with very solid performance from other markets including Southern California.
This strong revenue growth will help produce full year 2014 normalized funds from operations of $3.12 to $3.14 per share.
The results are above both our original and most recent guidance and represent a year-over-year increase in normalized FFO of nearly 10% an increase that is among the largest we've experienced in the last 15 years.
And it's because of the incredible portfolio we've assembled over the last few years concentrated in high density urban markets with close proximity to public transportation dining culture education nightlife and the like.
The demand for high-quality rental housing in these markets remain very strong.
Occupancies were at all-time highs for this time of the year.
Renewal increases are at the highest they've been all year and our current left to lease remains below normal levels.
In short fundamentals remain very good.
With continued strong demand for quality rental housing like that provided by every residential and we're delighted with where we are currently positioned with our performance this year and we all eagerly await the year ahead.
So with that said I'll now let David Santee our Chief Operating Officer discuss in more detail what we're seeing across our markets today and how that is shaping our thoughts about 2015.
Thank you David.
Good morning everyone.
We are extremely pleased to produce another very strong quarter and I would like to take a moment to recognize everyone on the EQR team for all of their extra efforts during our peak leasing season and continued excellence in the execution of our operational strategies.
Our reported third quarter revenue growth of 4.1% and commitment to delivering results at the top end of our revised revenue guidance represents continued strength in fundamentals and acceleration in many of our key drivers of revenue growth.
First this change in physical turnover.
Although we reported a slight increase it is directly attributable to an increase in the number of intra-property transfers meaning residents moving between apartments in the same community.
Netting out transfers for the quarter resident turnover was flat and down 150 basis points year-to-date.
We also believe it's important to understand the motivations and economic impact behind these transfers which represent over 10% of move outs in any given year.
Through September 64% of all these intra-property transfers moved to a larger and/or more expensive apartment paying an average increase in rent of $349.
All transfers both up and down produced an average favorable rent change of $66 per month.
The continued decline in turnover helped by a 90-basis point quarter-over-quarter reduction in move outs to buy homes gave us confidence to maintain our aggressive pricing strategy despite record deliveries and lease-ups across many of our markets.
Net effective base rents have increased 6.7% year-to-date and for the third quarter average 4.5% greater than Q3 of '13.
Renewal rates achieve accelerated for the fourth time in 4 quarters moving from 5.2% in Q4 of '13 to a very strong 6% in Q3.
We would expect to see similar results through the year end though transactions will be few.
Increased demand as a result of an improving job market allowed us to maintain our aggressive stance with pricing but also realize substantial occupancy gains during the peak leasing season increasing from 95.7% in '13 to 96.1% this quarter.
Year-to-date occupancy stands at 95.7% a 30-basis point improvement.
And as we sit here today occupancy is 96.2% versus 95.4% same week last year with 120-basis point improvement in left to lease down to 5.9%.
Looking out over the fourth quarter we of course anticipate the typical seasonal slowdown.
However our net effective base rents remain elevated over same week last year creating year-over-year net effective rent growth in excess of 5% the highest year-to-date.
Should this trend continue and we don't experience the full effects of the normal seasonal decline in both rents and occupancy it is possible that we can slightly exceed our revised full year revenue growth of 4.1%.
Now going around the horn with some brief market highlights Seattle continues to outperform with 100 basis points better occupancy.
Renewals achieved for September and October are above 9% and net effective base rents are up 5.7% versus same week last year.
Our delivery estimates for 2014 and '15 are 7 800 and 7 300 units respectively.
Growing relocations of various company and regional headquarters Oracle as an example offer encouraging signs of continued diversified demand in the urban core.
Amazon alone has over 4 800 open positions in its downtown locations.
San Francisco the only question here is how high can it go.
With few deliveries relative to demand San Francisco's positioned yet again to lead the way.
Renewals achieved for September and October were once again above 10%.
Occupancy today is 97.1% which is 130 basis points better than same time last year and left to lease is 170 basis points better at 4.7%.
Net effective base rents are 12.5% above same week last year and there are no indications that this will slow down in the next couple of quarters.
Now like the other West Coast markets L.A.
Orange County and San Diego are all experiencing 80 to 90 basis points improvement in occupancy and lower left to lease.
All 3 are experiencing broad-based job growth and improving fundamentals.
L.A.
will see elevated deliveries in 2015 at 8 800 units.
However the downtown area is quickly establishing itself as the place to be pressuring the West L.A.
Santa Monica and Marina submarkets which are also in a repositioned play as the Silicon Beach.
Playing host to new tech startups and satellite location for the Googles of the world providing more affordable living options relative to its Northern California headquarters.
Orange County remained solid with 2 900 new deliveries slated for 2015.
While job growth is broad-based the majority of deliveries will be concentrated in Irvine where job growth is 5x the growth of Orange County as a whole.
Jumping East going to Boston it will continue to be pressured in the financial district in Cambridge as new lease ups come online.
Concessions in the 2- to 3-month range are commonplace but the net effective costs of the 12-month lease remains higher than stabilized well established product.
Occupancies remained healthy with 7 000 units absorbed year-to-date with 5 100 deliveries slated for 2015.
Seasonal demand is very pronounced in Boston and we would expect moderation in occupancy and rental rate growth through Q1 of next year.
Now in New York we are continuing to deliver solid and steady growth in Manhattan.
And for definitional purposes Manhattan also includes Brooklyn and Williamsburg and we delivered a 4.2% for the quarter.
With elevated deliveries in both Brooklyn and the Jersey Waterfront we would expect some moderation in Brooklyn but significant pricing pressures in Jersey.
With continued strong population growth well diversified job creation in Silicon Valley Manhattan should be a solid steady performer for years to come.
Now it's no secret that South Florida is at it again with almost 11 000 deliveries for '14 and another 12 000 in 2015.
With over 50% of the deliveries in the Miami Brickell submarket and the balance East of 95 from Fort Lauderdale North the EQR portfolios should be well insulated both geographically and by price point.
Saving the best for last Washington D.C.
thus far continues to hold up pretty well.
Renewals achieved remained above 3% for the quarter and through September.
Over 14 000 units have been absorbed year-to-date and our portfolio continues to perform slightly better than our original 2014 expectations.
With another 12 600 units coming online in '15 we remain cautiously optimistic that next year's results will be similar to slightly worse than 2014.
More than half of '15 deliveries are located outside the Beltway concentrated in the I-270 corridor and South on U.S.
1 between Pentagon City and South Alexandria.
The RBC corridor Arlington and D.C.
proper all have significantly fewer deliveries going forward and to date have been some of our better performing submarkets.
Expenses for the quarter increased 60 basis points year-over-year and are up 1.7% year-to-date.
Third quarter expenses were favorably impacted by the adjustment for full year real estate taxes as a result of 2 significant appeals that we won in Florida.
We just didn't expect to resolve those appeals this year but those came through late in the quarter.
Continued reductions in property management costs as a result of efficiencies drive from the Archstone integration and restructuring as well as natural gas and electric costs continued to moderate with utilities declining 1.3%.
For full year '14 we would expect expense growth to be 2.2%.
With year-to-date expenses of 1.7% Q4 expense is expected to grow 3.6% will be driven by slightly higher utility costs real estate tax of 5.7% and higher payroll costs as a result of stabilized operations from the Archstone integration.
Now as we think about 2015 and our preliminary guidance of 3.5% to 4.5% top line growth we'll be making adjustments to our 3 buckets of market revenue growth.
Washington D.C.
will continue in a bucket of its own with a revenue decline of approximately 1% again for 2015.
While D.C.
has absorbed more than 14 000 units thus far we are still at the midpoint of delivering a combined 30 000 units for this year and next.
Our middle bucket of 3% to 5% revenue growth will consist of Boston and New York.
New York should produce full year results similar to 2014 while Boston will be closer to 3%.
Our plus 5% revenue growth markets continue to be led by San Francisco Denver and Seattle.
Los Angeles should be a solid plus 5% performer with Orange County San Diego and South Florida crossing the 5% threshold early in the year.
For expenses 2015 are built from the ground up.
But as we think about them today real estate taxes will have [indiscernible] handle and make up 34% of total expense.
We should see moderate growth in payroll as a result of diminishing returns from the Archstone integration.
However utilities should produce meaningful year-over-year reductions in costs as a result of lower natural gas and electricity costs.
All combined real estate taxes payroll and utilities make up almost 71% of total expense.
With that in mind we would expect 2015 expense to be modestly higher compared to 2014 with more color to come on our Q4 call.
So we are mindful that many markets will continue to have elevated deliveries.
We believe that improved job growth is upon us and delays in marriage are creating additional demand.
People of all walks of life are seeking a lifestyle in the city and renting by choice.
Owning a home is no longer a required variable in the calculus of achieving the American dream and homeownership rates continue to decline.
Certainly this must be a formula for outsized demand for quality apartments that should produce above trend revenue growth for some time to come.
David? All right thanks Dave.
Now clearly we remain excited about the strength and fundamentals we continue to experience across our markets.
As David noted really driven by an improving economy steadily improving job growth and recovering unemployment rate we remain confident that due to a very favorable demographic picture and the noted changing lifestyles plus millennials staying single longer and they really are embracing the flexibility provided by high-density rental housing within close proximity to their friends and their favorite activities.
We've got a lot of run rate ahead of us for continued strong revenue and NOI growth which will result in favorable growth in normalized FFO and our dividends payments as total shareholder return for years to come.
With the heavy lifting of our portfolio transformation behind us our transaction activity today is more fine tuning in nature as we complete a few remaining market exits and redeploy that capital in the longer-term core market investments.
We sold 3 non-core assets in the third quarter 2 25-year-old garden assets in Florida and a 44-year-old asset 100 miles west of Boston Massachusetts.
We realized an 11.8% unleveraged IRR inclusive of management cost on those deals.
During the quarter we bought one property 308 units in North Hollywood California that had been built in 2013.
Our guidance for the year remains to buy $500 million of assets and sell $500 million at a spread of 100 basis points and that spread being the difference between the yield we are selling and that which are buying.
This suggests that we have $125 million of acquisitions yet to do this year and $300 million more in dispositions all of which must be done significantly tighter than the 140 basis point spread realized year-to-date.
We're currently working on a couple of acquisitions that could get us to our $500 million target we hope to close by year end at high-4 yields.
And on disposition front in addition to the nearly $200 million sold to the first 9 months of the year thus far in the fourth quarter we've sold a couple of yields in Orlando for $150 million at 6% yield.
And we have a half a dozen other disposition candidates in various stages of the process.
And several of these deals represent less desirable assets but in our core markets that will trade at yields in the low to middle 5s which is significantly lower than those realized in our exit markets and will bring our weighted average disposition yield to somewhere near the high 5s by the end of the year.
And lastly I'll reiterate that the disposition yields we provide are the forward 12-month yields that we are selling.
The true cap rate however really that being the yield that the buyer acquired is significantly lower than our disposition yield when adjustments are made for increases in real estate taxes and insurance.
Now we're excited to commence construction in the third quarter on a 40-story tower in downtown Seattle on Pine Street just 2 blocks from Pike Place market.
This asset is expected to cost $200 million net of some additional air rights that we expect to sell at a later date.
The tower will be delivered in 2017 and produce a yield on cost in the high 4s on today's market rents and it's expected to stabilize in the upper 5s.
This trend transaction brings 2014 starts to date to $829 million which includes 2 high-rise towers 1 in downtown San Francisco and that which we just started in Seattle.
It's also possible that 2 additional projects could begin yet this year totaling $300 million which are also in San Francisco and Seattle.
But if they don't get underway yet this year they most certainly will early in 2015.
We completed roughly $500 million of development projects this year and we currently expect these new assets to deliver low- to mid-6% returns on current rents in markets where core product trades solidly in the 4s such as downtown LA Seattle and Pasadena.
We also have another $830 million of projects underway that will be completed in 2015 and our current forecast are that next year's deliveries will yield in the low 6s.
This includes 2 new towers in New York City and new product in San Francisco San Jose and Seattle.
During the third quarter we acquired one land site for the 2016 start of a 33-story tower in the financial district of downtown L.A.
containing 428 units for a total development cost of $200 million mid-5% yields at current rents and we'd expect that yield to stabilize in the mid-6s.
So before I open the call to questions I'd like to give a little shout out to the entire team at equity for having recently been recognized by GRESB as the residential large cap sector leader in sustainability.
Sustainability is an important initiative here one that is not only the right thing to do but one that is having a strong bottom line return for the company and we're very proud of the work that Lou Schotsky and many others around the country have been doing to produce such positive results and favorable recognition.
So Pam we'll be happy to open the call to questions now.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Nick Joseph from Citi.
Research Division</strong> David you talked about the strong multifamily fundamentals and clearly we're seeing them in the results and the outlook.
What's the largest risk to the strong multifamily outlook going forward? Well look I think that the demographic picture is very strong.
We're certainly seeing the job growth in the markets in which we operate.
I tell you the things that we think about as sort of risks to us are safety and security of our center cities.
But I think that's not an immediate concern.
But that's something that we've talked a lot about.
I'll tell you that I think one of the limiting factors on the growth of these and the long-term power of these center cities is public education.
I think that's something that will send a lot of people to the suburbs.
But I think that the demand for housing in these cities there today the jobs are being located there the companies are relocating back to the city we're seeing here in Chicago on a regular basis.
And we're obviously very optimistic about the long-term upside of the sort of this reurbanization of the country today.
Research Division</strong> Then in terms of the balance sheet you have $450 million on the line right now and $300 million of higher-coupon debt coming due in April.
What are your thoughts on addressing those? And could we see opportunistic in the near-term given where rates are? Or is that more of a 2015? Hey Nick it's Mark Parrell.
I think even more as a 2015 thing.
We have done some hedging in anticipation of that maturity as well as some secured debt maturities we have later in 2015.
So right now our expectation is that we would deal with that in 2015 given that we have the protection on the hedges.
But we'll watch the market and if something really changes dramatically I guess we could do something but right now that's not our expectation.
We'll go next to Dave Bragg from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter you suggested that there was a lot of product on the transaction market and seems to suggest that there was a possibility that you would exceed your acquisition guidance for the year.
David could you talk a little bit more about what you've seen over the last few months and the opportunities that may have not materialized? Well we've certainly seen more product this year.
And there's certainly more activity transaction activity this year than a year ago.
I tell you there has been lots of things that have traded that we've watched very closely and decided not to bid on or bid this sort of stay in the process but knowing that we would not get just given how aggressive pricing can be for the kind of product that we'd be happy to own -- add to our portfolio.
There have been deals that have been shocked in portfolios that have been withdrawn because seller's expectation of the portfolio did not met.
And they'll now perhaps be broken up and be sold individually.
And we may or may not transact on some of those individually.
And frankly I tell you there are some portfolios that have been buyers or sellers expectations were met and they've just kind of been pulled from the market.
So there certainly has been an increase.
We've bird-dog kind of all of it.
But we now think that we felt has been particularly opportunistic as you note.
There are things we bought that have been in lease up.
We're pursuing a transaction today that is in -- still under construction.
So there might be some opportunities for us to sort of play here and there.
But I guess I'll tell you Dave that there's nothing out there that we need to buy.
There's nothing out there that's hugely strategically important for us.
And if we can find the right trade opportunity the right things to buy at the time we believe we're getting good value on what we want to sell we'll transact.
But if we can find that's we won't.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And we noticed a pretty big increase in CapEx in the quarter on a year-to-date basis.
You're up pretty meaningfully year-over-year.
Can you talk about that and what the expectations are for 2015? Sure.
It's Mark Parrell.
I think for '14 we'll be pretty close to that $1 700 number.
Dave we increased our [indiscernible] spend guidance a little bit.
We are doing rehab at a faster pace and we have teams working really hard and doing some good work for us.
And building improvements probably a little lower.
But that's just timing that's just projects moving between the years.
I would think next year will be similar to $1 700 number which again we think about also as a percentage of rent.
So this new portfolio has obviously much higher rents much higher per unit values.
And so we think the CapEx spend really matches up with that pretty well.
And in terms of the changes from last year last year's numbers didn't include the Archstone spend to the same store set.
So the numbers you are comparing are a bit apples and oranges.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So you're spending significantly more on the Archstone assets legacy assets? Well we're spending significantly more I would say on assets in general because we have these higher cost assets in higher cost markets.
The Archstone projects or deals are getting a little more attention.
But for example rehabs were 2/3 EQR legacy properties and 1/3 Archstone legacy property.
So that's about the right split between the portfolio NOI.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the last question on that what's the contribution that you've seen in 2014 to NOI growth from this activity? What do you expect in 2015? So again we do leave our rehabs in same store because as a percentage of the value of the assets are pretty small.
We do know others take rehabs in and out.
And that's just not something we do we leave them in.
But it's still pretty modest as you look at the whole portfolio.
So something on the order this year of 15 basis points would be the contribution year-to-date.
That would be our expectations going forward 10 to 20 basis points Dave.
Now I guess the only other thing I'd add there is we're averaging 12 -- $10 000 $12 000 per unit spend and all those ideas of rehabs that can be $50 000 $60 000 $70 000 per unit.
So it's a little different activity that we're conducting than what we understand in some of our peers might [indiscernible].
And just to finish that thought.
I mean the Breakwater the Marina del Rey deal at Breakwater which is looking on our development page that was $100 000-plus unit rehab.
It was an empty property we emptied out.
That isn't the same store and never was.
These other rehabs are often done when occupied.
It means for us it's appropriate to keep those sort of rehabs in same-store and to take these big major rehabs out.
Our next question comes from Jana Galan from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A question for David Santee if you could please provide a update of rent as a percent of income and maybe highlight some of the markets like San Francisco that saw 12.5% year-over-year growth? Well I think we've kind of discussed this before in that we measure income one time when folks move in.
And because we use the same qualifiers I mean that percent of income really never changes.
So when we look at San Francisco today the median rent percent of meeting income is 24%; Southern California 23%; Seattle is only 19%.
So the numbers really don't change as people with higher incomes continue to backfill the people that move out because they can't afford the rent.
Research Division</strong> And you mentioned move out for homeownership were down about 90 bps.
Can you provide steps and other reasons to move out? Yes I mean year in and year out the #1 reason is really job change.
Either people need to relocate or transferring what have you that always runs kind of in the 23% to 24% of move outs.
Rent increases too expensive those have been really -- when you look back at the last 7 or 8 quarters it's been 12% to 13%.
Obviously some markets are more dramatic than others.
There for a while San Francisco was 30% 33% of move outs.
And then bought home is typically the third.
So as far as the overall makeup of move out.
It's still pretty consistent with job change #1 increase to expenses #2 and then bought a home #3.
We'll go next to Rich Anderson from Mizuho Securities.
Research Division</strong> So when you were thinking about your outlook for same-store revenue it's 50 basis points higher this year than it was last year.
And I'm curious what kind of were you thinking then versus now? Is it a rehab impact as Mark described? Or is there something more optimistic that you feel about for 2015 versus starting point last year? Well I would first say that we kind of build this from the ground up.
We start with embedded rent.
So we start with the projected value of the rent roll in Q4.
We look at turnover and know that in a lot of these markets we have below 50% turnovers.
So you can pretty much count on the renewal increases to come through for you.
And then it's just a matter of what you think rents are going to grow next year in the markets.
I would say that we definitely have a higher degree of confidence in the Southern California markets to produce greater growth than we've seen in the past.
I think we're probably a little more optimistic on D.C.
than we were last year.
That's not to say that DC is going to make some big turnaround.
But certainly it performed better than we thought.
This year we're just kind of taking the same assumption next year.
When you put all that into the blender that's how we get our range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You mentioned David that the new supply happening in Florida Southern Florida.
On the topic of fine-tuning from a transaction and kind of portfolio pruning perspective will Florida now kind of register in the market where you start to get in front of what could be some supply pressure in the next couple of years? Really the focus will continue to be on the exit markets that we've been working on.
And we've got I think desires to sell more kind of older noncore assets in some of our core markets.
But no market is immune or off-limits from selling asset we think we can trade those dollars into better performing other assets.
But the focus will be on Inland Empire continuing in Orlando.
Some far out in Western Massachusetts' assets some maybe some suburban stuff in D.C.
Inland Empire.
I think the priorities will likely be there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question do you have a statistics on the percentage of your tenants that are married? What we know is that nearly half of our units are occupied by single individuals.
We know -- and units are occupied by 2 adults.
We don't always know what marital status is.
We'll go next to David Toti from Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly David I want to go back to the emphasis on the urban renter and the urban product that the company has been focusing on for some time.
We hear from some peers that actually they're concerned about urban locations given generally higher levels of supply delivery and there seems to be a focus from some of your peers to be on more suburban assets.
Could you maybe just comment on -- do you believe that's through that risk of supply is higher? And is there any way that you cut the portfolio performance relative to urban versus suburban if you looked at that on a go forward basis? We're certainly aware of what elevated deliveries have been maybe in D.C.
and in Boston up in these urban markets.
That doesn't change our long-term view that these are the best long-term performers and will provide us with a higher long-term total rate of return.
This increased density bring more people brings more activity supports more restaurants more bars.
I mean it is very much a lotus of the lifestyle that we believe that our demographic would prefer.
I think that these young people want to be downtown they don't want to be in the suburbs.
And I'm not suggesting that you can't build and lease units in the suburbs.
We just -- we think that the impact the long-term impact will be greater being downtown notwithstanding some what we believe are short-term elevated levels of deliveries in some of these markets.
We think that the peak is here or nearly 2015.
It will come down from there.
The absorption that we've seen for instance in D.C.
I think continues to give us confidence that this is where people want to be and it will pay off for us over the long term.
Research Division</strong> Does it suggest then that perhaps the suburban renter if you're going to really aggregate that individual is older perhaps married? And maybe a little bit less elastic in terms of rent and price tolerance? I guess I think one can make assumptions like that.
We've not done any real hard diligence on that.
I guess my sense is my personal sense is people that are renting in the suburbs want to be in the suburbs and likely be homeowners in the suburbs.
And people that are renting downtown want to be downtown and it will be long time before they're homeowners in the suburbs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm just trying to explore that that sort of theory a little bit.
Just one last question on the development pipeline.
For the recent projects are you seeing -- are you basically underwriting significantly lower yield expectations on these assets? Or has the yield generally remained pretty steady and maybe some -- if you just can quantify that to some extent that would be helpful.
I mean as we -- as we're underwriting new deals? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes well certainly yields have come down.
So I mean the product that we built in 2010 2011 that is now sort of stabilized they're stabilizing in the high 7s and the 8s.
That product and lease-up today which would've been started a couple of years ago are probably in the mid-6s.
Things that are being completed soon will kind of be high 5s low 6s.
So clearly as construction prices have increased and land prices have increased yields have certainly come down.
And as I say the things we're starting today we think are low 5s to 6.
So you're certainly getting better returns on that which you started coming out of the recession if you have had land priced at what you could buy at the recession.
If you were carrying legacy land you wouldn't be able to realize those same returns.
But certainly you're getting lower returns today than you were putting projects in service 4 years ago.
We'll take our next question from Nick Yulico from UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
Going back to the preliminary talk about expenses next year.
I think you said Dave modestly higher than 2014.
I wasn't sure if that related to the modestly higher than the 2.2% growth level this year.
Yes.
Modestly elevated compared to the 2.2%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then turning to New York City portfolio.
Can you remind us I think some of your assets there have 421 abatements which will eventually be rolling off at some point.
If you remind us how many of those assets have those and when those abatements might roll off? And how are you thinking about that process in relation to maybe looking at those assets as being good candidates for condo conversion sales not doing it yourself.
Well I don't know off the top of my head how many are subject to 421A.
But there are fair number of them.
And they are all in many of them in the process of burning off because they do burn off over an extended time period.
And the impact on real estate taxes next year because of 421A burn off is what David? That's 160 basis points.
So significant percent share of our increase in real estate taxes next year is a result of the burn off of the 421A.
And then your second question with respect to interest in kind of medium conversions of our properties we're open-minded about selling things in New York city if people will pay us premiums for them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I mean you're not at the point now where you've identified several of these assets that you're going to be facing higher real estate taxes and you're thinking about bringing those to market to sell.
There's no such activity underway at the present time.
We have quite a number of 421A assets.
Just sitting here looking at the percent of tax it could be 30% to 40% of our assets in New York.
But we have -- because there's step-ups every 5 years or what have you over 15 or 20 years we're experiencing step-ups pretty much every year to varying degrees.
We'll go next to Alex Goldfarb from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One what is your take for why we're seeing apartment fundamentals accelerating? I mean if you look at the economy it generally seems to be following the same trend.
It's not like the economy has suddenly shot off the roof and job growth is through the roof et cetera.
And this supply picture hasn't dramatically just dropped.
So why do you think that we're getting a sort of acceleration of apartment fundamentals when one would think that you'd sort of get maturation of the cycle? I think it just been a slow and steady improvement.
I think that we've sort of seen this over the past 3 4 years.
It's just been slow and steady improvement.
We're starting to create jobs and employment rate is coming down slowly but surely.
We'll get some economic activity happening.
And the demographic picture is not impacted really by what's happening in the economy.
So there are still 4 million young people a year turning 21 years of age in this country.
I mean in formal households and we're seeing a lot of them move to the city.
So I think it's just been a slow and steady process.
And frankly don't forget that we've under built housing in this country over the past half a dozen years.
We certainly didn't deliver a lot of product in '09 in 2010.
And so I think we're still behind frankly I think what a normal level of new supply might be.
So I think those things all add up to just continued slow and steady fundamentals in the business that continued to look really good for us.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> So last year where we sort of had a pause in the second half of the year so you wouldn't -- would you attribute that more towards sort of renter adjustments to the new levels? And now that everyone has accepted the new rents it's just moving on? Or should we -- are you think that maybe next year we see some perspective some of the increases we've seen this year? I guess I don't really have an opinion about that Alex I'm sorry.
Again David just mentioned we get through the highest occupancy we ever had this time of the year.
Our left to lease is low.
So just basic fundamentals are good.
I will tell you we get pushed back all the time from people about rental increases.
Many of whom go out shop the market come back and accept the renewal offer.
Others can't as David noted the second biggest reason people move out is they can't afford it.
But we've got people who will -- are happy to move back in who move in with a higher income of the person that left.
So again I just think it's kind of a slow and steady event.
I think that the interest in owning single-family homes is not there of our tenant profile.
Again nearly being half of our units occupied by single individuals.
For those who might like to own a single-family home down payments are stretched and getting financing is difficult.
So I think all of those things add up to just continued slow and steady improvement in fundamentals and just a very positive outlook for us.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question is given how the tenures come down and the demand for especially CBD real estate just seems to continued increase.
Are you guys seeing more demand from institutions to own infill CBD apartments? Or are the cap rates still top for pension funds to digest? Well I guess I'd say that cap rates relative to the 10-year treasury might be as positive and as wide as they've been in quite some time.
We're still seeing interest in institutions owing these kind of assets.
And a deal just traded in Seattle a half a block away from the deal that we're now building on Pine Street that traded like 3.5 and they're happy to have it.
And they think they might acknowledge there might be a 5% IRR up but 10-year treasury level today that's -- they think that's a very acceptable spread.
I guess what I'd say is there may be fewer of those institutions chasing those deals today.
But there's still enough of them to get done at very very strong pricing.
And Alex that you were right last week.
There's a lot of discussion pardon me about foreign buyers and their interest in multifamily in these markets that they find these sort of core markets highly desirable.
They like the return they like it as a safety play and that folks across the country are seeing some added interest from foreign buyers that really weren't that common as buyers of multifamily in the past.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And that is a shift.
We'll take our next question from Vahid Khorsand from BWS Financial.
Quickly on the fundamentals when the federal government came out last week and was talking about reducing the standards and making it easier for people to get home loans.
How you see that impacting you going forward if that is instituted? Well I guess if I own a lot of property in the lands in Phoenix Dallas I might be concerned about that.
But we just don't see that as a risk to us.
We again as I've said several times it's a very large share of our units occupied by single individuals a very smaller share less than 10% are occupied by 2 adults with children.
And it's also I want to just impress upon you it's a lifestyle choice.
That not simply an economic decision.
I think our residents want to live in high-density environments with proximity to public transportation et cetera and all the things one enjoys.
I guess I'd ask everybody on the phone how many young analysts are now coming in your office saying they're moving to suburbs because they didn't get a 93% -- 97% single-family home loan.
They're not because they want to live downtown they want to buy -- live near their friends they want to live near where all the activity is.
And I also suggest few that they really do value this flexibility of being a rental housing.
I mean just today this morning I got an email from my nephew in Phoenix talking about he think he might be taking a new job here in Chicago.
I mean this is a mobile segment of the population that at least at this time in their lives are not interested in single-family homeownership.
We are also in markets today where the cost of that -- those single-family homes as a multiple of incomes is significantly higher than the national average.
So I would think that single-family home REITs and those who operate in lower cost markets would be more at risk of what their residents might do as a result of been able to get very expensive 97% loan value single-family mortgages.
Okay.
In the last quarter you announced that you picked up in property in Glendale and this quarter you announced a property in North Hollywood and then a partial purchase in L.A.
And I think it was 1 month or 2 months ago you actually came out with a report that said they expect rents across Los Angeles to go up 8%.
Do you see that actually happening? Is that too low an estimate for you? Can you give any thoughts on that? So I guess we won't give you any specificity about Southern California except to say that in David's earlier remarks he noted that it was a very strong performing market this year and expected it to be a strong [indiscernible] market for us next year.
So long term we like Southern California and are delighted with what we own and with the recent investments that we've made there.
So if I could ask you then do you have any impression from investors that there's a little bit of West Coast bias when it comes to your California properties because they have been surpassing growth expectation -- targets and no one seems to be taking that much notice of them? I'm not sure I understand the question.
Certainly Seattle and San Francisco have been some of the top-performing markets and we think David suggested that L.A.
Southern California in it's top bucket.
Joining those in the top buckets so certainly the West Coast is expected to have better top line growth next year than the East Coast.
Okay.
And I guess and last question for the property purchase you said there was up 4.7% cap rate.
Is that the stabilized cap rate? Or could you provide us with the stabilized cap rate? Well that is -- it would be a stabilized cap rate so there's still a little bit of lease up going on in that transaction that would be a stabilized cap rate.
We'll take our next question from Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> This is George on for Tayo.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But one thing when you talked about the increased turnover it's mainly -- or the increases within the portfolio people moving to larger more expensive units.
Do you have any color on sort of what's the driver of that? Are these people who are making more money who want a nicer apartment? Or are these people who may be coupling up and instead of moving out to home they're just getting a bigger apartment? We don't have that level of detail.
I would suggest that it's probably all of the above.
We know that if people get a promotion they want to move up 10 floors and have a better view.
And some people who want to pair up with a roommate.
There is no difference as bonuses don't come in as large that if somebody might have to downsize.
But nevertheless they still want to remain in the neighborhood they want to be around the lifestyle that they have accustomed to.
And I think they're willing to make whatever adjustments they need to accomplish that.
We'll go next to Michael Salinsky from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> David if you mind just going back to the changes in the quarter.
Obviously you said a 6% renewal increase was that -- that was -- what was the new lease on a lease-over-lease basis? And how is that blended actual change in the quarter? Just trying to compare that to the second quarter acceleration that you saw.
Okay the lease-over-lease was 2.3 lease.
Renewal was 6 and blended 4.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so the blended change lease-over-lease was 4 in the quarter.
Okay that's helpful.
Then David second question just going back to I think David Bragg's question you talked about the acquisition opportunities.
Just given the challenging acquisition environment I think you said the $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion between '14 and '15.
Is there any thoughts to maybe push forward a little bit more development surge into '15? Or you still comfortable with that kind of a $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion range? Well I guess we're comfortable with what we talked about development being peaking this year and next year and then kind of going back down.
It's -- land sites are very expensive construction costs are up.
In places like New York City San Francisco you can't touch property given the strength the strong bid from the condo builder.
I guess I mean our instructions to our development team is we'll find a way to do whatever good development projects we can find.
In New York city for instance that might be having to be done on ground leases as opposed to free simple.
Or just finding other opportunities.
And I guess I want to just emphasize sort of the word opportunities.
I mean to us that means find things that we believe we can buy relatively cheap.
And that's the challenge today the guys who are working very hard bulk from the transaction group and the development group they're trying find things that are really value creation opportunities.
But it's a challenge given that the strong bid for land today primarily from condo guys as well as the strong bid for stabilized streams of income that we're seeing from institutional buyers and the foreign buyers that Mark mentioned.
We'll go next to Nick Joseph from Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Michael Bilerman.
Just 2 quick questions.
David Santee do you know when you talk about the intra-asset movement which is to press the turnover stats you showed.
Do you have I guess going back on an annual basis how many of your residents moved either intra-asset and then intra-equity because in addition to some of the reasons you cite I assume you as a landlord and how you treat your residence and what you're offering in your buildings and how the more urban nature of your portfolio likely means more shifts within the portfolio to an equity-owned building.
And I said [indiscernible] numbers to support that thesis.
Yes we measure that.
We've been measuring it for the last 7 or 8 years.
It's on average it's about 500 residents per quarter that moved that stayed within the Equity family.
Sometimes that's just a result of how we structured the ledgers on a building Trump is the best example where each building is a separate entity so to speak.
So therefore it's not a transfer it's a move out move in.
But for the most part we track the number of people that move from what market to what market.
And for the most part it's loyal customers that want to stay within the Equity family because they've enjoyed their living experience thus far.
Research Division</strong> And I guess with the increase in sort of mobility of the millennials are you going after that more as people if they do put up a notice of -- that they're vacating that if they're moving to a different location trying to get them to put Equity on the map.
So if they're moving -- Neithercut talked about his nephew moving to Chicago recognizing there's not a lot of downtown spike but would you be able to work with that? Yes we actually have a 1 (800) number specifically designed for that that we have people in our call center that are referred to as relocation specialists.
We recently well kind of call it back in May we revised our transfer guidelines cost and we just made it more desirable from both an economic and ease of transfer for residence.
And I think one that's why we seen elevated transfers over the last quarter.
But also we're seeing more and more people stay within the Equity family.
So we constantly look for ways to improve that experience and retain residence for a longer period.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a question for Neithercut.
On the day [indiscernible] rate comes out at 64.4% which I think is the lowest since early '95.
Sam's on record saying you think this is going to 55%.
Can you just provide some color if that's the mindset why Sam would sell share 2 million shares of EQR in August $130 million? Well it's not my place to explain what Sam has done except to tell you that those in the first shares of Equity Residential stock Sam has sold in 23 years.
And that they were done for some estate planning purposes.
And we've been assured that that's the end of it.
So I think that this was last of call of homeownership et cetera and more just some personal financial things that needed to be taken care of.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I guess as I think about EQR as an estate vehicle itself if you believe that we are moving down to a 55% homeownership level then we'll see continued growth in underlying cash flows and hence what will be dividend growth given the way you've tracked your dividend relative to free cash flow it would just seem in congress to that sort of comment.
So that's what I was trying to understand.
I think the residual ownership interest that Sam has in Equity Residential speaks volumes about his long-term feelings about the company.
We'll go next to Buck Horne from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions.
One seems some time demographically talking about the millennial but think about the other end of the spectrum right now are you seeing any increases from baby boomers? And maybe the median age of your new renters are you seeing any kind of empty nest renters looking for the downtown lifestyle right now? Yes.
When we look at our average age in Manhattan the average age in Manhattan is 40 years old.
So we see these numbers pickup little by little.
We've done some studies where we look at where people have moved out of some of our suburban communities where they've relocated to.
And you kind of see some minor directional hints that people are moving into the city.
And one of the reasons -- when you think about -- I think about our own folks in Washington D.C.
We had our office in the suburbs out in Tyson's corner we moved our office right downtown DC.
If you live in the burbs even though you have public transportation subway it's just not fully built out yet and it could take you 3 hours to get from call it Fairfax into the city.
So I think that's a big consideration as well as companies continue to move their offices into the city people don't want to deal with the traffic so they move into the city as well and you have this outsized demand for in-town property.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And moving to South Florida I just want to go back to South Florida for a second.
Do you have any station between the deliveries you are seeing coming next year between how many are for-sale condos versus pure rental apartments? And maybe what kind of cap rates are we seeing in South Florida right now both for in place asset and development deals? Well the numbers that I quoted were for rent apartments.
We build these from the ground up a lot of people in the field validate and what have you certainly some of these could change.
But David? Yes I think that the good quality product in South Florida will trade at 4.5% to 5.5% cap rates today.
And as demonstrated by some of the product we've been selling so the older garden product stuff is probably close to 6%.
And at this time we have no further questions in the phone queue.
All right.
Thank you.
I appreciative everybody's time today.
We look forward to seeing many of you in Atlanta next week.
Have a great day.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Equity Residential Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to today's speakers.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Noah.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's fourth quarter 2014 results and outlook for 2015.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; David Santee our Chief Operating Officer and Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn it over to David Neithercut.
Thanks Marty.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
As reported in last night's earning release 2014 was another very good year for Equity Residential.
Full year normalized FFO grew to $3.17 per share an 11.2% increase over 2013 and amongst the highest year-over-year increases in our history.
Clearly we continue to enjoy very strong public demand across our core markets.
Much of this demand is generated from the creation of new households.
Now like many we think that last week's report on fourth quarter household formations overstays what actually happened in the quarter.
It was more likely an indication of the strong household growth that has been taking place through the entire year which has driven demand for good quality rental housing like that owned by EQR in our core markets across the country.
We also benefit from the continued decline in single family home ownership rates across the country that was also reported last week.
Now it remains to be seen if returned in a long term historical average of 64% becomes a bottom or not.
But across our portfolio we continue to see fewer residents leave us to buy a home either due to the lack of desire to actually own one or the financial inability to do so.
All-in-all multi-family fundamentals remain very strong and we continue to see no end in sight for above trend operating performance.
Like last year when we saw same-store revenue growth 4.3% which exceeded not only our original expectations but even our most recent ones due enlarge part to a very strong fourth quarter that delivered exceptional revenue growth of 4.9%.
You may recall David Santee saying on our most recent call that if the sight we were seeing early in the fourth quarter continued that we could beat our revenue estimates for the quarter and the results speak for themselves.
And I want to acknowledge the great work of our team's across the country that delivered such terrific results last quarter and last year.
And we're pleased to report the very strong performance these teams delivered in the fourth quarter of last year has carried over into the first quarter of 2015 which has given us confidence that the low end of the same-store revenue growth guidance range we gave you in late October is no longer in the cards.
So with that said I’ll let David Santee give you a little bit more color on what we’re seeing across the markets today.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Today I’ll review our fourth quarter operating results provide some additional color on our revised 2015 revenue guidance detail out our 2015 expense outlook and then end my remarks with brief updates across our core markets.
On our Q3 call I said that if elevated demand and subsequent occupancy continued through November and December that we would exceed or we could exceed the 4.1% full year revenue growth target and that's exactly what happened.
Occupancy increased quarter-over-quarter by 60 basis points.
However many of our higher average rent markets like LA Seattle New York Orange County San Diego realized 80 basis points of increase while San Francisco led the way delivering over 140 basis points of increased occupancy versus the same period last year.
December typically the lowest point of the year was a solid 100 basis points higher than the previous year.
Even Washington DC delivered 30 basis points of improved occupancy.
Now while demand certainly picked up during mid-year as a result of improving job growth many of our internal initiatives provided an even stronger foundation and position of strength in Q4.
Typically our softest quarter of the year we reported turnover for the quarter increased by 1.6% or 194 units.
However the real story lies in resident retention netting out a 23% increase to same property transfers.
During Q4 resident turnover decreased 50 basis points with more than 60% of these transfers electing for larger or more expensive units.
For full year resident turnover adjusted for same and inter property transfers declined 160 basis points from 48.9% to 47.3%.
With the scale and variety of living options we offer across all of our core markets it's clear that we are developing a strong following with our existing residents and delivering on our internal brand commitment.
We also made tremendous progress in our day-to-day management of lease expirations.
Our pricing teams worked diligently to integrate and better organize the Archstone portfolio explorations while fine tuning legacy assets to account for close proximity of these competing assets.
Today the combined portfolios position for optimal seasonal performance and we are seeing that play out in Q1 across all key drivers of revenue growth.
Strong demand coupled with a successful execution of our internal initiatives created a Q4 environment that allowed us to perform just as strong in Q4 as we did in Q2 and Q3 with both new lease based rent and achieved renewal rent growth holding strong in the upper 5% range.
More importantly the strong drivers of revenue have carried through to Q1.
Today we continue to see occupancy that is 100 basis points higher than same week last year and exposure that is 100 basis points lower allowing for both renewal and new lease rates to accelerate versus a slow and steady climb from a much lower seasonal starting point.
Renewals achieved in Q4 were 5.7% although 20 basis points lower than Q3 based on normal seasonal expectations it did average 25 basis points higher than Q1 and Q2 of 2014.
January renewals bounced back to 5.9% achieved and February and March should easily exceed 6%.
Given this trend which is the material departure from our historical seasonal norms we would expect Q1 revenue growth to almost near if not exceed Q4 driven primarily by the 100 basis points of improved occupancy that we enjoy today and higher new lease rents.
As we move closer to the peak leasing season we would anticipate the favorable occupancy spreads to compress as we are mindful that 2015 deliveries remain elevated across many of our markets with occupancy always peaking during this period.
For all the above reasons we are comfortable with tightening our full year revenue guidance increasing the bottom end of our previous range to 3.75%.
Expenses for the quarter were extremely favorable at 2.2% allowing us to achieve full year results that were 40 basis points below our stated expectation of 2.2% on the Q3 call.
During our Q4 call last year we said that we would mitigate the impact of real estate tax growth of 5.25% and a 7.5% expected utility expense growth by leveraging the integration of the Archstone portfolio through the reengineering of our leasing and advertising costs onsite payroll and a more efficient management company and we did just that.
For full year 2015 which accounts for 97 911 units L&amp;A costs declined 10.5% onsite payroll was down 20 basis points and property management costs declined by 5.2% year-over-year.
In the fourth quarter we received a modest benefit from declining energy prices as well as a year-end favorable accrual to employee overheads.
For 2015 expense guidance is 2.5% to 3.5%.
Real estate taxes payroll and utilities now account for almost 72% of total operating expense.
With a complete reversal in energy we would expect full year utility costs to be negative.
That will help offset another five plus handle for real estate taxes which account for 36% of total expense.
With an improving labor market and property staffing fully optimized we anticipate total payroll costs to grow 2% to 3% for the full year with all other line items in the 2.5% to 3.5% range.
Now moving on to the markets.
We'll start with Washington DC metro which has seen record absorption in spite of anemic job growth during 2014.
Despite another 13 000 units to be delivered this year and the tail end of 2014 deliveries in various stages of lease-up the metro area remains very stable with solid occupancy and good pricing discipline.
The district itself continues to see outsized population growth and 25% of our district move-ins were from folks moving closer in from Virginia and Maryland.
With the budget deficit improving and many government retirees being replaced with younger workers with a higher propensity to rent our positive year-over-year revenue growth that we see today and I'm not prepared to call a bottom but it sure feels like we could be there.
Assuming no change in direction we're cautiously optimistic that DC could end the year flat to positive.
Seattle will be measured by degrees of grade by submarket for 2015.
The CBD Bellevue submarket will see a 30% decline in deliveries from 3200 to 2000.
Capitol Hill and Redmond will experience similar levels of delivery although these deliveries are small in unit count and easier to digest.
South Lake Union the geographical center of Seattle and home for Amazon has been master planned to meet the transportation recreation and sustainable living needs for up to 50 000 jobs in this neighborhood area.
And we expect this submarket to do extremely well next year and in future years.
Bellevue on the other hand with the elevated deliveries with large unit counts that can weigh on performance for longer periods.
With those operators in Snohomish Everett and all other markets north 2015 should yield above average results.
With 2015 deliveries equal to 2014 and based on the location of those deliveries we would expect Seattle to produce another year of outsized results.
San Francisco continues with epic pace with significant acceleration in Q4.
In one of the most under housed cities in the country deliveries are miniscule and simply don’t seem to be relevant.
With January occupancy up 250 basis points versus 2014 at 97.2% today and net effected base rent up 13% since in last January it’s easy to envision another year of 8% to 10% revenue growth for full year 2015.
Los Angeles Orange County and San Diego continue to show signs and strength with Orange County expecting to produce the better revenue growth of the three on fewer deliveries and quality job growth.
Now Orange County can deliver a six plus percent revenue growth then I would expect LA and San Diego to trail by 50 basis points based on elevated deliveries alone.
Broad based job growth across all markets and resolution of court of Los Angeles labor dispute are all positives in addition to the expanding Silicon Beach movement and West LA down to Playa Del Rey.
If there is a market that will benefit from lower gasoline costs it will certainly be SoCal and we would expect to see the spreads tightened between ask and achieved renewal rents over the course of the year.
Jumping over to Boston a glut of high end deliveries in the urban core and the financial district is beginning to weigh on this submarket and subsequently our portfolio.
With a 35% increase in delivered units for 2015 net affected base rents remain flat however occupancy is stable and demand remains solid.
With such large concentrations of high end product within a very small radius we would expect pricing pressure throughout much of 2015.
New York City specifically Manhattan remains stable with only slight concentrations of new deliveries on the upper west side.
Jersey City and Brooklyn will both deliver large institutional type product which will weigh on pricing power over the next year.
However with population in the metro achieving the new high of 8.4 million people a pick up in business and professional service jobs and the continued growth in jobs away from financial services New York should produce four-handle revenue growth supported by an expected 155 000 new jobs in 2015.
As we discussed last call South Florida claims continue to grow like weeds with over 12 000 condos in various stages of development.
Concentrations of the apartment deliveries were mainly in the Miami Brickell submarkets with most deliveries in Broward and Palm Beach being east of 95 that will demand a much higher price point versus the EQR portfolio.
With the Cuban thaw and growing South American business influence we expect South Florida to have an exceptionally strong year.
Revisiting our three buckets of revenue growth we still see San Francisco Seattle Denver and Orange County in our plus 5% revenue growth bucket.
New York LA San Diego and South Florida remain in the 3% to 5% revenue bucket.
However Boston will do well to achieve 3% but today looks more or like a high 2%.
Washington DC at 18% of NOY remains in its own bucket and as I said earlier we are cautiously optimistic that we could potentially end the year in flat for positive territory.
I too would like to thank everyone across EQR for delivering on our commitment to both our residents and shareholders and look forward to another fantastic year at EQR.
David? All right thanks David.
On the transaction side as expected we did nearly 63% of our full year disposition activity in the fourth quarter for the sale of seven properties containing nearly 2200 units for $332 million.
Five of these assets were in Orlando which left us with only three properties at the end the year that should all be sold in the first half of 2015.
We also disposed of a small property in southern California and recently completed and stabilized unconsolidated Arch stone asset in Phoenix owned in a joint venture with a local developer.
We acquired two stabilized assets in the fourth quarter both in Seattle at a blended cap rate of 4.8% and our partner’s 95% interest and is; soon to be completed project currently in lease up in Emeryville California at a stabilized yield for 4.8%.
Now as noted in last nights release for the full year acquisitions totaled $557 million so that includes all the stabilized assets properties of lease up and the one owned in a joint venture and dispositions total nearly $530 million which includes the one held in a joint venture and that was all done in a cap rate spread of about 113 basis points.
Now as indicated on page 27 of the supplements and materials in last night’s press release our guidance for 2015 assumes a similar level of activity at 100 basis point spread.
Now we continue to have assets that we would like to sell but we are in no rush to do so.
So if we can source good acquisition opportunities relative to the assets we’d like to sell we’ll go ahead and make that trade.
Now at the present time there is product available for sale in our core markets that we would be pleased on but the wall of capital anxious to acquire those assets remain significant pushing cap rates down and pricing up the levels that will likely leave us on the sidelines.
But like last year I'm sure we will find some investment opportunities either sourced directly or with risks that we can uniquely underwrite and manage that will enable us to sell some assets and redeploy that capital into our core markets that will provide us better long term risk adjusted returns.
On the development side we are excited to commence construction on two assets in the fourth quarter one is in Seattle’s Salt Lake Union submarket where we are building 483 units for $159 million at an expected yield at today’s rents in the upper fives and one fronting show place square in San Francisco’s Soma district where we are building 241 units for $164 million at an expected yield of today's rents in the mid fives.
Fourth quarter starts about the full year to $1.15 billion the highest level of starts in our history that will soon deliver as great product in Southern California San Francisco and Seattle at weighted average initial yields at current rents for the mid fours to nearly 6%.
We also completed $491 million of development projects in 2014 and we currently expect these new assets that deliver low 6% returns on current rents in markets where core product today trades in the fours such as downtown LA Seattle and Pasadena.
In 2015 we expect to complete $846 million of properties currently under development and 1.2 billion in 2016 and our current forecast are that these deliveries will generate initial yields of the mid fives to mid sixes at current rents which includes new product in Southern California San Francisco San Jose and Seattle and two terrific new developments in New York City which we will be very proud to show many of you during the June NAREIT meetings.
We are not acquiring land for new development today at the rate we are commencing construction on existing sites held in inventory by definition then future starts should decrease from the record level we saw last year.
So over the next two years we currently expect to start approximately $1 billion of new construction projects all on land currently held in inventory and at the present time expect to start $400 million of those projects this year and the balance in 2016 all of which is self funded requiring no incremental equity capital to complete.
So now we will turn the call over to Mark Parrell who will take you through some important financial messages.
Thank you David.
Good morning.
I want to take a few minutes this morning to talk about our guidance for 2015 as well as our new commercial paper program and our 2015 sources and uses.
For the year we have provided normalized FFO guidance range of $3.35 to $3.45 per share at the mid point this equates to 7.25% growth in normalized FFO in 2015 and this is on top of the 11.2% growth we experienced in 2014 and that creates a compound average growth rate of normalized FFO of 9.25% per year.
We also expect to grow our dividend substantially in 2015 raising it from its current level of $2 per share up to $2.21 per share which is a healthy 10.5% increase.
So I’ll go through some quick highlights on our 2015 guidance as David Santee said we expect continued growth in same store operations and that should add $0.21 per share or $81 million to our bottom-line.
We see a $19 million or $0.5 per share contribution from our non-same store assets and that does include our leased up.
And in addition we’ve seen $11 million or $0.3 penny per share expected improvement from lower interest expense and that number is net of capitalized interest.
The interest expense improvement comes from lower expected rates and higher expected capitalized interest and that’s offset a bit by slightly higher weighted average debt balance for the year.
All those good benefits are offset by about $0.04 per share reduction in normalized FFO and that’s due to transaction activity timing and to be clear this is due to the timing of both 2014 and 2015 transactions.
2014 was benefited by the fact that acquisitions occurred mostly in the beginning of the year while as David Neithercut noted dispositions were mostly backend loaded.
In contrast 2015 is burdened by our expectation that we will complete the majority of our dispositions in the first half of the year while acquisitions will be evenly spaced throughout 2015.
I am now going to move on to G&amp;A we have bifurcated our treatment of this line item our 2015 normalized FFO guidance anticipates our recurring G&amp;A to be $51 million to $53 million and that’s slightly higher at the mid point than the $51 million in G&amp;A that we reported in 2014.
In addition our GAAP G&amp;A will include approximately $9.7 million in charges.
We are incurring in 2015 in connection with the adoption of our new executive compensation program.
We will also incur a GAAP charge of $1.3 million that will run through our property management line in connection with this program.
This new performance based plan and it’s pretty similar to those and many other REITs covers the period 2015 to 2017.
The old plan which used the time based vesting methodology terminated for executives at the end of 2014.
The accounting rules require that both the time based grant for service in 2014 and the performance based grant for service from 2015 to 2017 both be expensed in 2015.
This overlapping and duplicative GAAP charge of $11 million is not included in our normalized FFO guidance for G&amp;A or property management and one timing note on G&amp;A we again have many G&amp;A costs that are frontend loaded and we therefore expect that 60% of our G&amp;A expend to happen during the first six months of the year.
Now I want to take a moment to talk a bit about our new commercial paper program.
This week we entered into $500 million commercial paper program which will allow us to borrow daily weekly or monthly at extremely low floating rates of interest.
This will allow us to continue to reduce our already very low cost of capital.
I want to take a moment though to put the CP program into the context of our larger balance sheet management strategy as we have discussed before the company generally expects floating rate debt to constitute 15% to 20% of total debt.
Our portion of this floating rate exposure comes from borrowings under our unsecured revolving line of credit.
We expect to use the new CP program to replace a portion of the amount that we would otherwise have outstanding under our revolving line of credit.
When fully implemented we expect the CEP program to save us approximately 0.5% or 50 basis points as compared to our line pricing.
We have amended our line of credit to ensure that it will be available in the event the commercial paper market is disrupted and we need to repay our CP borrowings on short notice.
We are very pleased to be one of the few real estate companies who through good balance sheet management have earned market and rating agencies support to do a CP program.
Now I want to end with a little color on the sources and uses for 2015.
We are very well positioned heading into the year.
We expect to repay approximately $600 million of debt in 2015 which consist of $400 million that’s listed on our maturity schedule as coming due in 2015 as well as about $200 million of high cost mortgage debt that’s due in 2016 that we will be repaying in 2015.
There are no pre-payment penalties associated with that.
We will also spend about $700 million this year on development activities.
So on the aggregate we see about $1.3 billion of cash usage in 2015.
Our guidance assumes we fund these uses with $950 million of debt consisting of a $500 million debt due in the first half of 2015 and a $450 million debt due in the second half of the year.
The remaining $350 million will mostly come from operating cash flow and just the few other debt related guidance assumptions for you.
We have about $450 million in hedges.
They are locking an implied ten year treasury rate of approximately 2.5%.
The issuance expected in the first half of the year.
We expect to have about $59 million in capitalized interests in 2015.
We expect to maintain an average balance on our revolving line of credit or under our new commercial paper program of about $400 million this year and we anticipate ending the year with outstanding revolver borrowings and or commercial paper out standings of about $400 million and that is modestly higher where we began 2015.
That will still leave us with $2 billion of capacity on our revolver that does not mature until 2018.
And now I will turn the call back over to David Neithercut.
Thanks Mark.
So before we open the call to questions I just want to mention how pleased we all are here at Equity that Steve Sterrett was appointed to our Board last week You all know what a smart experienced capable pro Steve is.
We also know that just as importantly he’s really a good guy.
He’s going to be a terrific add to what is already a very experienced and thoughtful group of people.
The entire Board and the entire management team really look forward to working with Steve in the years ahead.
So with that Noah I will be happy to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Nick Yulico with UBS.
Hi everyone.
As I look at your same-store guidance the high end of 2015 same-store NOI guidance is for growth of 5.5% and that would roughly equal 2014.
Can you talk a little bit about some of the biggest factors that get you there? Seems like demand trends are picking up yet maybe occupancy comps are get tougher you cited through the year and you still have some worries about supply in relation to that? Well I think it’s just the - this is David Santee.
I think you just have to kind of put all that in a blender and evaluate your risks on a market-by-market basis.
Certainly as I said in the prepared remarks DC delivered quite a number of units last year.
Many of those properties are still in the low teens or - well below 50% leased up and you have another big crunch coming this year.
So I kind of talked about this last year that all roads lead to DC for us.
Looking at it another way if you pull DC out of our numbers you would have seen a 120 basis point improvement on both Q4 revenue and full year revenue.
So I think we are very confident about our expectations across all the other markets but DC being 20% or almost 20% of our NOI can materially move the meter either way.
Okay.
And then just as what we were hearing that in New York City you may have been quietly testing sale of an asset to test the condo conversion market.
Can you talk a little bit about whether you have been doing that and kind of your latest thoughts on your Manhattan portfolio in relation to possibly selling some assets at very low cap rates based on the strength in the market? Well I guess all I can say there Nick is that in the guidance we've given you $500 million of dispositions that does not include any sales of any assets in Manhattan.
Okay.
Anything as to whether you can confirm whether you were actually testing the market quietly to see how - ? I'd tell you that we believe everything we own is for sale all the time.
Okay.
Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
Thanks.
David you mentioned the wall of capital chasing deals today do you expect any impact from a stronger US dollar on foreign demand for U.S.
multi-family assets and could that have any impact on cap rates going forward? Well I think that there certainly is demand from foreign capital but there’s also a lot of demand from domestic capital but I think we’ll continue to look at good quality multi-family assets as a good investment opportunity.
And there are frankly so few assets available for sale I’m not sure that that would negatively impact valuation.
So that’s certainly an interesting thought but I’m not sure that it’s one that would negatively impact the demand for asset here.
Thanks.
And then in terms of development you talked about not backfilling the pipeline as fast as the expected starts but given the strong multi-family fundamentals and their runway for future growth how does development fit into EQR's long-term strategy? Well it plays an important part in our long term strategy but it’s not the only part of our strategy.
We continue to be very active and try and look for development opportunities and we’ll continue to do so.
But it’s just - prices have gotten very expensive construction costs are up and we’re just not seeing the opportunities to reload that inventory for same rate that we’re putting it into service.
And we’ve got could be opportunities to buy assets in markets could be opportunities to buy land in markets and we’ll continue to pursue both and execute what we think are the best risk adjustment returns.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
And we'll take our next from Dave Bragg with Green Street Advisors.
Thank you.
Good morning.
David can you elaborate on the competitive acquisition market that might leave you on the sidelines.
Question is as acquisitions have gotten more competitive to what extent has your cost of capital namely disposition pricing not kept up the pace? Well I guess you’ve not seen us print any of the big acquisitions that kind of have taken place across the country.
Again it's limited but there certainly have been some.
And we’ve tended to find little opportunities here and there that might be property that are in lease up or properties maybe even under development or just ones that have got different unique risks that we might be able to manage.
In addition we are having this opportunity to buy out our joint venture partner on the field in Emeryville.
And as I said earlier we don’t have product that we need to sell.
So we’re not anxiously looking for almost anything in order to get out of stuff that we don’t want to own.
So we’re just trying to be opportunistic and make trades that make sense.
The sheer volume of transaction activity that you’ve seen us experience even away from the Archstone transaction over the past half a dozen of years has come down considerably as we’ve sort of achieved our objective of transforming the portfolio and we’re just now going to take a little bit more opportunistic approach to the investment side.
Okay.
And so you target a 100 basis point cap rate spread between acquisitions and dispositions love to hear your thoughts on what that’s the right spread and is it currently a bit wider than that today when you look across the board at the stuff you could sell and the opportunities that you are underwriting on acquisition front? Well that’s obviously based on what we know we’d sell if we could find the right opportunities and what we think we’ll have to pay for those opportunities if we would have acquired some of the stuff that we looked at and underwrote  but we didn’t buy that spread probably would have been wider because a lot of stuff have traded in the threes.
We believe we can manage that business as today at a 100 or so basis point but we did that in last year with a 113 basis point.
So the guidance is just we think we could do 500 and we think we’ll do 500 on the [indiscernible] and on the sales who knows how it will actually end up but that’s just the assumptions are made and the guidance that Mark gave.
Okay.
And the last question is that the investment activity lately specially on the development front has been largely focused on the West coast and can you talk about in general terms as to the changes that you’ve seen in terms of your underwriting of long term growth rates on the west coast versus east coast or total returns potential that seems to be steering you incrementally towards the west coast over the last couple of years away from the east coast.
Well I mean I guess it’s we found more land opportunities.
Well one thing is that we acquired a bunch of assets in the Archstone spread so that was one reason why you see more on the west coast and additionally we found a great piece of property of 405 in LA.
We continue to find some opportunities in Seattle and believe me the guys on the east coast have been working awfully hard to try and find opportunities there.
Very challenging in New York it’s not impossible.
We got a couple of land sites in Washington that we’ll consider to start building on.
We’ve got a couple of sites in Boston that we may build on soon.
It’s probably taking a longer time in Boston for instance to really get the things that we’ve got our eyes on actually to point where we can start construction but I think most of the reason why we’ve been more west coast focused is the fact that we’ve got four land sites in San Francisco with Archstone.
Okay.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Jana Galan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Question for David Santee I was wondering if you could touch on affordability in your markets if you could share either the move-outs due to the rent increase in the fourth quarter or where your residents are as a percent with rent as percent of the income by market.
Well I think we've discussed this before this that currently we really only measure residents income at time of application so just by that nature they’re going to be able to afford the rent and therefore as we’ve seen in the over the years really the rent as a percent of income really doesn’t change.
You just people making more money are replacing people that can’t afford it.
I will tell you we see a in the area of move outs due to rent being too expensive that has fallen off significantly.
I want to say probably 600 basis points for the year but a lot of that was really centered in San Francisco that was the key drive but even San Francisco has stabilized a lot more.
So historically we’ve seen rent as a percent of income to be about 20% so that's the way it’s been not only in the existing portfolio but in the portfolio that we owned in the 90’s it’s a fairly consistent percentage on an average.
Thank you and then I’m just curious you have had very impressive high occupancy rates.
I’m curious if you think this is the results of kind of under supply of housing coming out of the recession or improvement from revenue management? Well I guess I would say that we’ve never been once to buy occupancy and I think if you look back over the years relative to some of our competitors that we tend to probably run a little lower occupancy in Q4 because we try to optimizing that balance between rate and occupancy.
This year we didn’t pull any levels any differently than we have in previous years so this improved occupancy was really just a true function of increased demand and one could argue that in some of these markets.
Look we said over the past couple of years if you start sprinkling in more jobs that went from $150 000 a month although we have to – you know the high 2s that we could see upsized growth and we’ve discussion recently that you know look if things continue the way they are then 97% could be the new 95% occupied in a quality institutional type communities.
So it’s really a combination of lots of things Jana.
It’s under supply of new product.
It’s people staying single longer.
It’s people interested in living in the high density urban environment.
I mean there’s all sorts of things that come to play.
And we’ve been talking about for the past four or five years that are really now all coming.
getting to a point Jana it have given us great occupancy great revenue growth and a good outlook going forward.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Ian Weissman with Credit Suisse.
Hi guys.
This is Chris for Ian.
I’m just getting back to acquisitions and dispositions and the spreads there.
I mean I get that 100 basis points which you have forecasted for this year but do we expect that number to come down in the future as the quality of assets that you’re selling improves I guess that’s one.
And then two do you have an estimate in the terms of the spread on AFFO yield basis because I imagine those are quite a bit tighter as the older assets are more CapEx intensive? I think that that very possible and also that the CapEx with the percentage revenue will be higher in the disposition at risk and the asset that we’re selling.
But that’s a very good point and with respect to that cap rate spread and something that we are noticing.
Having now essentially existed all of the more commodity like markets much of what will be selling going forward are assets in our core markets that don’t fit our need going forward.
We got assets in suburban Seattle for instance.
We’ve got assets to some in New England.
Some assets in California that we will be able to sell a cap rates that will be much tighter to those which we will be buying but that’s a very good point you raise.
Okay.
Great.
And then I guess I just wanted to revisit the 4Q beat.
I guess you talked about the reason for it on the resident side and then just getting back to the expense side I mean you talk about the initiatives you put in place I guess what surprised you after the 3Q call that led to you beating it by 40 basis points? Yes.
It’s Mark Parrell.
I mean part of that certainly was some adjustments to reserves that we always do at the end of the year and two of them in particular going in one direction and that was an adjustment or a medical reserve.
So all year we spend Chris trying to estimate what our medical expenses will be for our employee benefit plans.
And at the end of the year we drew that up and there was a couple of million dollar benefit from that that we were not anticipating.
So that would have come through earlier in the year if we have approximated it correctly because it is a savings but we had over estimated the expense run rate for the year for our medical expense number.
And then we had fewer casualties than we bought through the year and that also pushed some money through the system that doesn’t affect same store that does affect FFO.
But the medical reserve does affect same store and FFO.
Got you.
Thank you very much guys.
You’re welcome.
We’ll take our next question from Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
Good morning.
First question is David going back to the initial comments on the rent gap.
In the first half you guys said its wide and that’s why you expect the first half especially first quarter to be better than historic but in the back half you spoke about it compressing and also the impacted supply up.
If the first half continues is there upside to the back half or the back half assumes sort of the same strong growth that you’ve seen in the first half or so far year to-date and therefore there is really not upside of the continues of the current trajectory? Okay.
So we’ll certainly – today we’re running 100 basis points in occupancy above same time last year.
When you get into end of February that’s going to compressed down to 80 when you get down to March that’s going to go down to 60 or 40 which kind of goes back to the question is 97 the new 95? If that’s the case so -- and depending upon what happens with the new deliveries you could see some gaping in the peak recently period.
I mean I think we’re running 96 and change last summer.
So to get a big pickup from 96.5 is a little more difficult than getting that big pickup from 95.
So then we had – I think we should be able to achieve in Q4 of 2015 pretty much the same occupancy that we achieved in 2014.
So lot of the pickup is going to be in the first half of this year solely due to improved occupancy.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then on the development I thought you mentioned that there is one patch that’s delivering in the mid 4 to 6 and then 6 plus on the existing pipeline just want to clarify that? Well we got to deal in San Francisco that we think we’ll be about – we’ll be a mid 4 delivery at current rents so that was range from assets there Alex.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just finally for Mark Parrell a two-partner one is on the CP program is the cost advantage just because the participants in that are subject to less regulatory issues that maybe line of credit lenders on as aggressive and the next part is as you look at your – where you always about 2015 but as you look at your 2016 2017 maturities that are above market some of your other large brethren have spoken about possibly addressing those in advance so just curious your take? Well on the CP program a lot of those buyers are various money funds also corporates and just that market is very efficient market and it is a lower cost market than the bank market.
I’m sure the regulatory charges play into it.
But I also just think that because REITs were not CP participants until very recently there just wasn’t a lot of air play between and banks frankly got the price of the credit maybe a little wider especially high quality guys like us than they probably should have been to.
And I think the CP program we’re going to kind of close that gap.
In terms of 2016 2017 we have fair amount maturing.
We’ll be really thoughtful about and we are already going to pull forward $200 million that are part pre-payable.
We can do that either by pre-funding or we can do that by hedging.
And I think with the input of our board we’ll think we’ve heard about that because as you on occasion we have kind of pre-funded these maturities and locked in these lower rates and right now being able to a 30-year potentially inside of 4% is very interesting I have to say.
So we’ll be very thoughtful about that.
Okay.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Andrew Rosivach with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good morning and thanks for taking my call.
I’m trying to get just to a couple of AFFO numbers and it’s got a couple of pieces.
The first is that you guys give better disclosure than anybody on CapEx and you’ve got your CapEx for same-store in 2014 one of the 1800 versus 1200 the prior and that increment just called $16 million is about 4% of our same-store NOI I was wondering is there a redevelopment component to that? Sure.
It’s Mark Parrell so what I direct you to is there’s a little bit of guidance we’ve given on page 23 and we talk about rehabs is was we call them.
So these are not the $40 000 or $100 000 units tear it down to the studs type of things.
These are kitchen and bath reworks that we do but they do have often a revenue enhancing component and/or at least in part they’re optional some are asset preservation but some are optional.
So we do give you some separate guidance on that.
So for example for this year there is three real pieces.
The routine piece or replacements $350 a unit and I’ve been about that number for a long time.
And that’s carpets and appliance replacements.
Then we got these rehabs I’ve just spoken.
And a few years ago that was $250 to $300 a unit and we expect in 2015 that will be $600 a unit.
And we’ve signaled on prior calls that we’re going to do a lot more rehab.
We have a lot of opportunity.
We have yeah.
Yeah.
So that’s part of that increase the couple of hundred bucks and then we do have a third component we call it building improvements and that’s all the external stuff air conditioners on top of high-rises complex to start work all of that.
And what happened really there is the last couple of years had been a bit of a ketchup.
So 2014 and we think 2015 if you look at 2013 that number was pretty low much lower than usual.
And that was really us being maybe just a little bit busy integrating Archstone and not doing maybe all the capital projects we had originally budgeted.
But I do think we now own more expensive assets and so I would think this 1800 plus we’ll moderate a bit in out years.
I’m not sure it’s ever going to get back to 1400 when we owned our units which is what it was when we owned again a much cheaper portfolio one of these commodity markets.
So that’s the way I guess the way to translate this is you got that 869 for 2014 I can see on the footnotes you gave a sense of where it’s going to be for 2015.
So 350 would be kind of a recurring number and the above and beyond would be considered a rehab? Yeah not all in fairness the $600 per unit for rehab some of that we have to do.
Some of those are asset preservation but I would say clear majority of those or things we’re doing with an IRR in mind or return in mind.
And for us we I know that had a mid-teens return and we generally gotten that.
So the 350 routine absolutely have to do of that 600 per unit that could easily go down 200 bucks a unit or more if we wanted it to.
But we think right now it is a good use to shareholder capital.
Do you have the sense just to get apples-to-apples for the couple of your peers because everybody is kind of all over on this what the burnout has been on your same-store related to that activity? Well it varies we said before in general it will increase revenue by between 10 and 20 basis points.
Now we have $2.6 of same-store or pull the revenue.
So it is the big number Andrew this year for example in 2014 on that 4.3% reported number that had no impact and the reason for that is lot of these rehabs were done in Washington DC.
And a lot of these rehabs are in their early stages where they’re creating vacancy and not creating income and because of that you just have no impact on the year.
And but it just will vary year-over-year and some years it will be 20 basis points and some years zero.
And we got to reiterate we’re doing this as an asset preservation matter and we’re doing because an investment matter.
We’re not really trying to change in fact we aren’t really changing our same-store numbers.
Okay and obviously the increases -- but also under the other pieces that you guys have been touching on is the you’ve been paying off the old Archstone debt and that’s the result that that kind of non-cash benefit is getting smaller.
And it maybe you could just remind me a kind of how much it was helping earnings in 2013 versus 2014 versus 2015? Yeah my chief accounting officer is smiling at me because we spend a lot of time talking about this just in a last day or so.
So I’d refer you to page 15 and this is going to be a little technical but I’ll be very brief and we need to talk more about it we can.
There’s various premiums and discounts that are discussed at the bottom of that page the very bottom of 15.
But the net result of all of this is that put aside cap interest for a moment -- but our reported interest expense for the year is within $2 million of what actual cash number is.
All of these premiums discounts plus all the amortization of financing cost and very little net impact on what we report because some goes one way and some goes the other.
So the answer on Archstone and the rest of it is the Archstone debt is certainly disappearing we only have one real large pool in 2017 left.
But in it’s net impact on the company it’s almost effectively is nothing.
The interest expense into normalized FFO or regular FFO to that matter.
And wouldn’t happen to know what that 2 million was in 2014 to 2013 because s I recall it shrunk on much larger number? It was and I don’t have that point of reference with me but it was a much larger number particularly in 2013.
We did from very large pay off in 2013.
And that number came down very quickly so I mean there was certain benefit in 2013 but a lot it didn’t last long I’ll say that much.
Great.
Thanks for the time guys.
We’ll take our next question from Dan Oppenheim with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Thanks very much.
I was wondering if you can talk a little bit more in terms of the thoughts on renewal rates in that you’ve done a great job lifting occupancy and I’m talking about 97% is being the new 95 sounds there a bit more focus on pushing rates here give the comments about February and March renewal increases.
Are you basically and possibly accepting that through the move outs could go up move outs due to rental increases could go up slightly more as we get to the spring and summer or is that not a worry at all given sort of the thought that at the time of move in that the affordability is strong enough that they can handle it here? Well I mean when you look at the reason to move out being too expensive.
And in the whole portfolio is about 10%.
Additionally we have also as part of our some of our internal initiatives and kind of rearranging the lease expiration schedule on the Archstone portfolio.
We have moved more leases into the peak months than we previously have.
But we don’t see any slowdown in demand and I mean December just as a data point we saw our leaves increase in December by 14%.
So for the quarter it was up 9% so we continue to see demand there’s been some articles recently the kids are starting to move out of the basement.
I think all of that continues along with even retirees wanting to relocate back into the city there’s just this huge magnet in the or urban core that is drawing everyone there that I think will serve us well and allow us to continue to ask for higher rents.
Great.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Rich Anderson with Mizuho Securities.
Thanks how much of the 4% revenue growth expected for 2015 is in the bag and how much would you say still quote-on-quote speculative? In the bag from that? The embedded it’s 2 in change it’s kind of all we’ve been that way last three or four five years.
I mean that’s just taking the rent roll and annualizing it as of January.
But so even we get about probably 40% to 50% of that growth turns into revenue growth only because most of your expirations renewals occur maybe year.
So if you’re getting 8% 6% 7% renewal increases you’re going to pickup 40% of that on average.
Got you.
Okay.
And technical question for Mark Parrell it could what is the benefit may read FFO from the first quarter from pursuit costs? Well refrain to that numbers on page 28.
Yes I’m.
Yeah so the benefit there actually on the net so just because married FFO defined will be higher we believe than our normalized FFO and will be higher because we anticipate that are not certain of having a litigation recovery a payment true-ups in settlement of losses.
Somewhere in the $10 million $20 million we put that in the guidance that goes in that same line so you are seeing it there as a big positive so something on the order of $0.04 $0.05 to the positive.
And then we’ll have half the penny to a penny of these proceed cost that we always got back to the married FFO number so that’s what’s going on there.
That number will throughout the year decline and more of this pursuit cost will erode that litigation settlement and that’s why the guidance for the whole year for married FFO and our normalized FFO is almost the same number just the penny differing at the mixed plate for a time being.
Okay understood.
Thanks.
And then last question for me you’ re not calling bottom yet in DC you may soon but on the counter to that I guess my question is what’s your view on technology within industry I mean did you see the strength right now but to the extent that you’re declining a bottom in DC are may some day is it possible will be soon declining a top or for telling it market Seattle San Francisco even Boston and Denver because the technology industry is starting to just look over over done at this point.
Just comment if what you’re looking at and what you’re looking for in those markets from a technology perspective.
Well I guess I would say we spend a lot of time here just R&amp;D and researching future opportunities for technology so I think for the most part were in the beginning stage just in the beginning stages of technology and the opportunities that will exist going forward.
Certainly places like San Francisco geographically limited but I don’t see any reason to think that Seattle will slowdown I mean when you look comparative rent levels to other major cities has plenty of rooms run.
And there is still this again the magnet many companies in Seattle that have headquarters or regional headquarters in the suburbs or relocating to the city become batch where the the younger employees demand to work so I’m not sure this technology I think it’s a broad-based urban revival.
I guess $40 million evaluation some DC focuses are starting to call what’s happen in technology and worried about getting over done you are not but you’re -- just not seeing any of that not worried about it at all at this point is that a fair statement? Well we will be the first we met at San Francisco’s ahead bus I’m not just you’re not suggesting for that and want again but we will also say every time that bus which is come back stronger than had previously so you look the demographic picture you just look at the David noted this the reorganization is happening and you look at as millennial generation where they want to live work and play.
We continue to be very optimistic about want from opportunities in this poor urban centers and that doesn’t mean that they want stumble or bus from time-to-time but we just think over the long term.
We are in a right assets and right markets.
Got it thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Tom Lesnick with Capital One Securities.
Thank you.
Actually my questions have been answered.
And we'll take our next question from Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Yeah.
Hi everyone.
Just a past if I miss this but just in terms of the same store performance for the quarter being ahead of expectations and I talked about the positive early trends that you saw that you discussed in the third quarter continue in nature of the upside.
But by the market I was just wondering if there is any particular market they also do well but any one market really stand out as much better than you had expected as of the third quarter? Well I think when you look at the contribution to the overall growth they were certainly San Francisco with what did I say 140 basis points improvement and occupancy so that was typically we’ve seen we’d this discussion over the past couple of years in that were at San Francisco so under house why do we have seasonal impact.
I think we just done a better job of managing explorations.
In addition to outsize demand in few force I guess I would say San Francisco definitely surprised relative to their contribution to the occupancy and we would expect them to continue to surprise this.
Okay so not sure that’s the surprise but I guess just couple of mile in questions just to clean up here it doesn’t sound like equities part of the plan here this year but just curious you ended with 377 million shares I think it’s going to 380 for the guidance and is that just sort of the equity awards or is there something else going on there.
Right that just it’s per hour just the effective employee stock option exercises that we’re predicting throughout the year.
Okay great.
And then I think I heard 60% of the G&amp;A spend is supposed to be in the first half of ’15 was that GAAP G&amp;A does that include the-- Either way you got it.
It will be in the first two quarters of year it will be 50% so whether you take our $52 million number or the GAAP 63 it will be the same kind of deferred.
Okay.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from George Hoglund with Jefferies.
Yeah sorry if I miss this but this $0.05 per share of lower NOI from higher OpEx in One Q15 and can you sort of elaborate what’s driving that I assume part of it’s the the metal expense true up from 4Q that goes away.
Yes we got a few things we got $5 million increase in utilities and we’ve certainly noticed here in Chicago it's gotten a lot colder since the December.
We’ve got a $4 million increase in payroll and that again these are all very common for us.
And that payroll increase you got raises coming through the system you’re resetting all your accruals and about a $4 $5 million increase in real estate taxes because we’re again resetting our accrual levels for 2015 as they relate to 2014 so all of that all together is the source of that negative 5.
And the reasons snow storm in north east will led impact any OpEx in 1Q.
On a same store basis probably not I mean the impact in New York and DC was obviously very minimal.
We typically just kind of take a three year average in our budgeted numbers so Boston was the only really had a major impact but I don’t think there will be any material impact on Q1 numbers.
Okay.
And then just last one looking at acquisitions for the year based on what you guys are seen in the markets what’s becoming available any sense in terms of geography where there might be more acquisitions done and then also do you anticipate these being just stabilized assets or might there will be some recently developed assets was some lease up? Well again we just speculating but I would think all of the above we all working on a deal recently completed deal in Boston and that could get done in the first quarter but other than that it just we will be looking at everything it cause every market and making sure that we again -- we do by make sense related to the this position proceeds.
And I would not be surprised we’ve been seen just like we did in 2014 opportunities to buy something’s have gotten a lease up risks there is some development risk to every time from a completion stand point.
Allows us to they have a competitive advantage And if I can add its -- just another thing that’s important when you do your modeling is timing so our guidance assumes acquisitions occur effectively ratably throughout the year for about 25% of that 500 each quarter.
Our dispositions as we instead in our remarks is front end loaded you think about $300 million that should occur in the first quarter and the last will be spread evenly.
All this can change but that’s what our guidance is premised on and that’s why you see a little bit more dilution as I said in my remarks running through the system.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
We’ll take our next question from Haendel St.
Juste with Morgan Stanley.
Hi thanks for taking my question guys.
So David a slight twist to an earlier question you guys mentioned not ready call the bottom in DC in terms of operations.
Curious how you're thinking DC from an investment perspective at this point? Is DC on your current potential investment are you underwriting any opportunity there curious if you are how you would be thinking about near term NOI or IOR's for potential investment.
We’re not currently underwriting anything to buy in that marketplace.
We have looked at things we do have a couple of land sites that have been inventory for a while that we may consider moving forward with afterwards we have maybe a 17 delivery might be good timing.
But we’re not underwriting anything and I’ll tell you that we've not seen any real dimension in value at all of assets in that marketplace.
We think values have held up very well.
And so I’m not sure that anyone will see any quote unquote opportunity in that marketplace.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And then following up from earlier comment about your trouble back building the development pipeline and translate with your - the improving outlet for LA market.
Curious on your decision to sell the LA partial that you sold during the quarter.
Can you give us some sort of colors of insight of the thought process there? Sure.
That was part of a four parcel acquisitions that we made in Howard Hughes complex on the 405 in -- where there were four parcels we’re building on two of them.
500 plus units and we didn’t wish to add more to our inventory in that location.
And found the builder that paid us a very nice price to buy what we consider to be partial free.
And at some point in time we’ll sell partial four which is a much smaller parcel and that disposition we did have a nice gain on a disposition relative to the value that we had attributed to that purchase.
Appreciate that.
And then lastly you mentioned the declining home ownership rate as a tailwind there that you and your peers have benefited from the last couple of years.
Curious on the look ahead and specifically how you're thinking about the prospects for a single family recovery today as potentially a risk or a headwind for you.
We’ve seen housing estimates out there calling for 20% plus year-over-year starts growth builders are offering a bit more incentives and we’re starting to see slow improvement on a mortgage availability which again collectively think slightly more competitive for sale dynamic.
Curious on your thoughts there and then also do you want to broaden that out to include anything else on your sort of risk list as you think about this year even to next year? We look at the single family housing national statistics as sort of an interest and we do as I know we have seen fewer people move out of our apartments in 2014 to buy single family home.
We are concentrated today in very expensive single family home market I mean that was the part of the plan.
And it’s very expensive mortgages are hard to come by.
Down payments are significant and we’re buying many of our residents 40 some odd percent of our units are occupied by a single individual and we don’t sort of see that segment as particularly planned home buyer anyway.
A lot of our residents I mean the 30 year old range we think value of flexibility and optionality is provided by rental housing.
So it’s a off a lot of things in our markets that differentiate us a little bit than what you might see in markets where the cost of single family housing is much lower not only in absolute dollars but as a multiple of income.
So I think there are other companies in single family home rentals that I think are much more risk to what you maybe seeing about more focus and ease your mortgage availability etcetera with respect to single family housing set.
Appreciate that.
Just as a quick follow-up do you guys have perhaps a recent stat on average tenant income or past rent as a percent of income? We covered that previously and as David Santee said we collect that data only at the point of application and point of moving.
So we know that the most recent new occupants that number is been in the 20% range.
Rent to income and that's been very consistent across our history almost regardless of the portfolio we’re running in the markets which we’re operating in.
Thank you for that.
We’ll take our next question from Michael Salinsky with RBC Capital Markets.
Given the comments on DC about possibly bottoming in 2015 not willing to call a quarter yet can you talk about what that - what you need to see in that market to give you confidence that market's bottomed whether it's job growth or supply and then also obviously different mix submarkets there.
Where do you expect the pockets of real weakness to be in DC in 2015 relative to something we could see some strength in? This is David Santee.
I think first and foremost we have to see jobs we have to see a greater degree of certainty and confidence from a lot of the government contractors.
That's where it all starts.
As far as the supply I mean for the most part we have a excellent handle on what's coming online this year and we track as soon as someone starts moving there so we know what's going to probably surplus in 2016.
So in 2015 your pockets of deliveries had shifted somewhat.
So when you look up the makeup of our revenue growth for 2014 the district for us was positive revenue growth.
For 2014 the I-270 corridor was positive revenue growth for us.
This year the deliveries are going to be in South Alexandria.
It is going to have outsize deliveries I-270 corridor weather Rockville Bethesda but at the same time the RBC corridor is tailing off so you could start seeing positive rent growth there.
So its just a matter of how strong the good pockets are and how weak the other supplied markets are and to what point in time during the year relative to improving economy and job growth.
Okay.
Then just as my follow-up.
Just given the comments about the tough acquisition environment tough development environment as well and just the positive comments in redevelopment and we think about acquisitions in 2015.
Does that make you more lean towards maybe towards fees with a value added component or do you still see A's as offering the best up side in this point of the cycle.
I guess we’re diagnostic Michael.
We bought properties across the quality spectrum and we’ll acquire where we think we can find the best risk adjusted return.
We bought A’s we bought B’s we bought C’s and turned into B’s I mean we’re really quite agnostic about that.
Okay.
Thank you much.
And with no further questions I’d like to turn the call back over to today’s speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us.
We look forward to seeing many of you around the circuit in the coming months.
Have a great day.
And this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Equity Residential 1Q 2015 Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Ann.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's first quarter results.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; David Santee our Chief Operating Officer and Mark Parrell our CFO is here with us for the Q&amp;A.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn it over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us today.
As reported in last night's earning release our teams across the country did just a great job during the first quarter.
Achieving 5% growth in same store revenue which was driven primarily by continuation of the strong occupancy that we saw in the fourth quarter of last year.
We also did a terrific job on controlling expenses and delivered first quarter NOI growth of 7% and normalized FFO growth for the quarter of 11.3%.
There is absolutely no doubt that we continue to enjoy very strong apartment demand across our core markets.
And David Santee will go into much detail in just a moment.
But the strength is been experienced in nearly every market in which we operate.
Driven by all that which we’ve talked about over the last several years including modestly improving economy that help produced a million new jobs in the last four months 3.3 million in the last year.
The creation of new households by the millennial generation which is generating significant demand for rental housing which is not being met by new supply today and the desire of so many to live in 24x7 cities across the country that have very high cost for the single family home ownership.
So all in all multifamily fundamentals remain very favorable.
The first quarter of 2015 produced very strong operating performance and we’re pleased there are results here to-date and how we are positioned going into the primary leasing season have enabled us to raise our same store revenue guidance for the year to 4.3% to 4.7%.
With that said I’d let David Santee discuss in more detail what we’re seeing across the country today.
Okay.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Today I’ll be reviewing our results for the quarter discuss our current position with respect to base rent and renewal increases and then update you on our markets and our three buckets of revenue growth.
All of these give us the confidence today to tighten and raise our full year 2015 revenue guidance.
And while our expectations for Q1 performance were high actual results were even slightly better.
However we remained full in the peak leasing season and peak deliveries across all of our markets are still ahead of us.
Q1 performance was a result of the continuation of the strong operating metrics that we delivered in Q4 with the key driver of being elevated occupancies compared to Q1 of 2014.
On the same store portfolio realized in 80 basis point pickup and occupancy however more notably our core markets delivered a 100 basis point pick up ranging from a low 50 basis points in Boston to a 180 basis point in San Francisco.
We continue to believe that these improved results are driven by strong demand from an improving economy a shift in generational lifestyle preferences as more and more methods are chasing the urban lifestyle and continued declines in home ownership.
As a result of the strength that we saw in Q4 and the expectation that the trend would continue we have the confidence to extend renewal offers that achieve 6.3% growth for the quarter higher since Q1 of 2012.
Additionally the percentage of residents that chose to renew with us this quarter was the highest since Q1 of 2008 a 56.1%.
Turnover continues to decline quarter-over-quarter falling from 11.3% to 11.2% with the percentage to move out to buy home dipping to 11.9%.
The lowest percentage we’ve seen since of 2012.
In terms of real numbers move out to buy homes from 1 330 to 1 296 quarter-over-quarter representing about 1.3% of our total same store unit count.
Net resident turnover which factors out same community transfers fell 30 basis points quarter-over-quarter from 10% to 9.7%.
As residents desire to remain in their building and neighborhood calls to them to move either up or down in rent with 60% choosing to move up.
Net affected new lease rents the foundation for determining renewal increases average 5.1% year-over-year for the quarter versus 3.1% in Q1 of 2014.
And it continues to remain at these levels till today.
As we introduced second quarter the significant occupancy gains that we enjoyed in Q4 and Q1 have began to moderate as expected.
Although today we still enjoy an exposure rate that is 10 basis points slower than same week last year an occupancy at 96.4% which is 50 basis points higher than same week last year.
Renewal increase is achieved for April and May today are 7.2% and 7% respectively and based on our results thus far for June and July offers we expect to achieve similar results for these months.
While Q1 for these outstanding revenue growth those results were slightly better than our expectations that drive full year guidance the peak licensees in just ramping up and reminding ourselves again that 2015 will see peak delivers.
We’re extremely pleased with our quarter to-date results and expected outcome till May and June.
Expenses for the quarter were generally in line however the route we took was quite different than our original road map.
The North East storms resulted in significant snow removal cost and also impacted our ability to perform many services in house as our staff dealt with the inferiorly affects of the storm we were simply not able to make it to work.
In the plus column all of these unexpected events were more than offset by the short declines in energy cost.
Real estate taxes representing over 36% of total expense are being revived downward from 5.35% for 5.1% for the full year.
As a result of lower than projected values in Virginia and lower overall taxes in Denver and King County in Wash you’re going to stay.
In the minus column to save even real estate taxes will be not by higher payroll cost which is 22.5% of total expense as a result of the over time north east storms and fewer vacant positions across our portfolio.
With energy cost remain sharply lower and a slight reduction in property insurance cost we remain confident that we’re track to hit the midpoint of our expense guidance range of 2.5% to 3.5%.
Moving on to the market to lead up with Washington DC metro area despite anemic job growth in record delivers during 2014 the DC metro area was able to absorb more than 14 000 units.
As many as the government retirees live in homes in Suburbs they’re younger replacements chasing to live in the city with the amenities and transportation they need right outside their front door.
New lease lands remains under pressure and on average are flat across the portfolio.
However renewal rates achieved have increased from the low 3’s during 2014 to the low 4’s in Q1.
Renewable on the books for April and May indicate this trend will continue throughout the year.
Improvements in job growth are beginning to materialize and the previous multi year declines in the professional service sectors have bottomed and are expected to be positive going forward.
At 17% of total NOI any improvement in Washington Metro will certainly have a favorable impact on our full year results.
With 13 000 units being delivered in 2015 and by our count another 9 700 in 2016 the metro area continues to be fairly stable.
With occupancy up a 100 basis points today but with same week last DC performance thus far is dead on our projected revenue growth assumptions.
Seattle continues to meet expectations with concentrated deliveries in the East and North.
Amazon’s recent financial results board well and their 4 000 plus open positions in Down Town which paying an average $90 000 per year increased by 200 jobs versus same time last year.
Expedia recently announced there would be relocating its headquarters from sub urge to the city with a high quality talent chooses to live work and play.
Corporate relocations from the verge to the urban core are playing out in every major city across the U.S.
and we would expect this trend to continue.
San Francisco was the winning beneficiary of the improved occupancy that we saw in Q4 and Q1 with a 180 basis points increased over Q1 of ’14.
With minimal deliveries relative to outsize demand we see no reason why San Francisco should not lead the way again in 2015 and we look forward to scale our results as we begin lease up on our new product and Emeryville and Downtown.
Denver thus far continues to maintain its ranking as the second best market across our portfolio with peak deliveries of over 9 000 units this year.
We would expect softness in the urban 4 to continue with softness being defined as only 5.5% revenue growth.
With the majority of our portfolio located in the suburbs we wouldn’t expect to see any material deterioration revenue growth for the full year.
Additionally reports of actual or projected job losses as a result of the energy crash are few and far between.
Los Angeles performance has shown tremendous strength in recent leagues.
With net effective new lease rent growth approaching 7% today and renewal rents achieved averaging 7.5% thus far for Q2 versus 6.5% in Q1 will be moving Los Angeles to our plus 5% revenue growth bucket for full year 2015.
With most of the port drama behind us and very strong demand in the valley and far North.
Our broad base economy recovery has clearly materializing.
With only 8 500 new deliveries expected in 2015 or should be minimal impact for this improved trajectory.
Today representing almost 11% of our NOI LA is delivering outcomes of 96.6% which is 100 basis points higher the same week last year and exposure that is 100 basis points lower than last year.
It appears that LA is now on track for an extended month that will provide outsize growth for an extended period to the EQR portfolio.
Orange County San Diego and Emeryville Empire are all performing as expected.
Since softness in Downtown San Diego for new deliveries will constraint new lease rents.
However renewal increase was achieved across the three markets range from the mid 6’s to the mid 7’s.
Jumping over to Boston new lease growth is going to continue to be under pressure as 70% of the 5000 new deliveries are concentrated in the urban core and Cambridge.
With late 2004 deliveries spilling over into 2015.
However despite the proceed impact from the winter storms Boston absorbed over 4 600 units in the first quarter as demand and rental activity saw mill impact.
As newly delivered office and lab space come online we would expect to see increased demand in the urban core as the financial services and biotech industries continue their expansion.
Our Boston portfolio is slightly better positioned than same week last year with lower exposure and 30 basis points better occupancy.
With new lease pricing under pressure on the concentrated deliveries the key driver of revenue growth for 2015 will be in the form of renewals where we achieved plus 5% through June.
New York is steady as she goes.
For Q1 the Jersey waterfront beat out Manhattan but only as a result of the poor results they experienced in Q1 of 2014.
Going forward we would expect Manhattan to continue to lead the metro area in revenue growth with modest weakness on the upper west side due to new and large unit count deliveries.
Improved job growth in the higher paying sectors of business and professional services will certainly bolster demand for all the high-end product that has been recently delivered.
In addition it will help now to drop losses and the financial sectors appear to found the bottom.
With the outsized deliveries in Brooklyn and Jersey City coming online we are already seeing new lease price pressure and would expect that to play out in the next 12 months to 18 months.
Last but not least South Florida with over 12 000 units being delivered this year across the three county metro area we expect the most severe pricing pressure in the downtown Miami submarket where 50% of these new apartments will be located.
The balance of new deliveries are mostly east of I-95 from Lauderdale all the way to West Palm Beach which insulates the bulk of our portfolio from direct competition.
With only two EQR assets near downtown Miami and the balance of the portfolio further west of I-95 we should be well positioned to deliver another year of plus 5% of revenue growth.
Job growth remained strong and diverse across the entire region with the potential implications of Cuba’s new open for business policy providing more questions than answers.
So summarizing our buckets of revenue growth we now see the DC bucket is half full versus half empty and have challenged our team to meet or receive 1% revenue growth for the full year.
And 13 000 new units still to come and meaningful job growth in the early stages Washington DC will be a slow and steady climb from the bottom.
Our 3% to 5% revenue buckets now contain San Diego New York and the cautiously optimistic Boston which will be challenged to achieve a 3 or better.
Our plus 5% bucket has the usual suspects with San Francisco and Denver leading the way yet again.
LA now breaking out with 6 plus revenue growth followed by Seattle with a solid low 6 and then South Florida and Orange County in the low 5s.
As we’ve demonstrated it’s still a great time to be in the apartment business and improve the economy and the generational shift in lifestyle choices will continue to produce outsized demand in the urban core.
A decline in deliveries in 2016 across most of our core markets will most certainly extend the runway we have to grow revenue and produce results that are above historical trend for the foreseeable future.
David? Great thank you David.
As evidenced by the recent activity in our sector that remains a very strong bid for multifamily assets for many different segments in the investment community.
As a result the first quarter saw no acquisition activity in our part as pricing remains aggressive.
We did sell three assets in the first quarter two in Redmond Washington and one in Agoura Hills California for a total of $145.4 million at a 5.27% cap rate that we sold with the expectation that the buyer acquired about a 5% yield on those deals.
These assets were each multiple building gardens now assets average in 31 years of age and represented opportunities for us to sell into a strong investor demand of value-add product.
Thus far the second quarter we have had some transaction activity occur that we think an interesting example of the market trading that you’ll see as try and undertake going forward.
Two weeks ago we required a recently completed 202 unit property in Boston or a $131 million and a low four cap rate.
Around that same time we also sold a 41 year old 193 000 square foot medical office building in Boston or a 123.5 million or $639 per square foot at a mid four cap rate.
This property is located next to Mass General and was required as part of our charges with investment 16 years ago with the current demand or healthcare assets we saw great opportunity dispose of this billing and trade into a multi-family asset with far more upside in both earnings and NAV growth going forward.
On the development side we commenced construction on one new project in the first quarter representing the last of the four downtown San Francisco sites that we acquired as part of the Archstone transaction.
We’re building 449 units at a cost of $290 million and expected yield on cost at today’s rents in the mid fives.
We continue to assume that we’ll start about $450 million of new development this year and we have a couple of smaller deals that we’ll have to get underway yet this year to reach that goal.
But more importantly similar to the acquisition market there is a lot of capital chasing development opportunities and land pricing has increased significantly.
As a result and noted on our last call we’re not acquiring land to new development of the same rate as we’re commencing construction and existing side in inventory.
So in addition to reductions and start this year we would also expect starts in Q3 is to be down from the level same over the last several years.
And with that Ann we’ll be happy to open the call to questions.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll take our first question from Nicholas Joseph with Citi.
Thanks so much on the Boston acquisition I wonder if you can talk a little more about that.
What was attraction about that deal and if you’re underwriting criteria have changed at all? Well I’m not sure changed at all we think that deal today Nick is probably our best located assets in the city.
And we underwrote that deal that a high 7% IRR than I think that our expectation over the last several years then high 7 low 8 and we think that this will deliver within that range.
And I guess just more broadly on the transaction environment today.
You mentioned the strong bid and aggressive pricing.
Is this an opportunity to actually trade out some of your non-core markets if you can sign core deals to redeploy the capital? Well essentially all have been doing over the last half of dozen years.
So yes the challenge there is not finding interest in those assets we like to sell as evidence by $4.5 billion of assets we sold to help of the Archstone acquisition.
But it’s finding the uptake to redeploy those assets that capital.
And I can tell you that of what we own today that we like to sale were no hurry to sell any of it we’ll happy to continue to own it we will exit Orlando in the next month or so.
But other than that what we have on our listed itself we’ll in the meantime and when we find right opportunities to reallocate the capital we will but we’re in no rush to do so.
Thanks.
And then just finally on those dispositions will they be from non-core markets or will they be non-core assets in your core markets? I would say would be all of the above.
We’re getting low point today where we can sale last non-core assets in our core markets while we continue to sell out of non-core.
So you’ll see us do both.
We’ll go next to Derek Bower with Evercore ISI.
Great thanks.
I just had a question on the guidance and the outlook.
Are you certainly appreciate the guidance rate for the full year but still imply deceleration to the back half of the year especially at the top-end.
So can you just elaborate a little bit more on maybe the risk factors that get you to the midpoint even the top-end of guidance still has deceleration you had turnover I think is down lower since 2008 renewals or high 2012.
So can you just collaborate a little bit more or may be what brings the deceleration throughout the remainder of the year just given how strong the household formation numbers have been? Hi Jack it's Mark Parrell and I think David think you'll probably supplement this a little but we are mentioned before we really got a substantial occupancy and as such in the fourth quarter and again repeated that in the first quarter.
And occupancy as David think he just mentioned remains very high.
And so we do have positives in all regards on the operations side.
But as you compare our occupancy in the second quarter; that we expect in 2015 the occupancy that we had in 2014 and you keep doing that throughout the year they get closer those two numbers and there's just less occupancy benefit.
So I don't think it's really as much anything about slowing down or decelerating our household formations being worse or anything like that.
It's just the mechanics of the numbers when you have this occupancy improvement that was so substantial and that was in the slower part of our year in the end of the fourth quarter and be at the beginning of the first.
And the only thing I would add is the fourth quarter and the first quarter the numbers are great.
Both on new lease rents both on renewals but your transactions on those quarters are so few.
So that's why I remind everyone that we do have peak deliveries.
We're just now entering the peak leasing season where more than 50% of our lease will turn and that's where we will make most of the money.
So we don't see any really deceleration like Mark said it's just the mechanics of the numbers.
Okay got it.
And then just touching on margins there was a bit of a deceleration sequentially from the fourth quarter.
I know that's typical from the seasonality basis but you get 100 basis point margin improvement last year in 2014 over 2013.
What do you think is the projected run rate for ’15 again? As a margin? Yes we put out 66%.
67% I think those are good numbers.
Like I want to point out our margin is fully [indiscernible].
So our property management cost and everything that it takes to run that operation IT all property related legal I mean all property related accounting -- so just when you're comparing apples-to-apples you have the right comparative.
We will go next to Nich Yulico from UBS.
David you mentioned the transaction market being -- what words you used exactly but I think it was implying that pricing is pretty good and the selling apartment we you can't take out a cap rate that was probably about 100 basis points higher then you guys had a much different portfolio.
How do you think about recognizing you guys don't need the capital but how do you weigh may be doing a JV of punching your best lowest cap rate asset just to kind of demonstrate to the market that this is where market pricing is and this is where our stock is? Well I guess we consider such an event if we did have a use of the capital and I guess I would suggest you that every day away from us there are trades being printed that demonstrating value of these assets.
So I don't think we need to do something to make that clear to marketplace.
That's happening every single day all around us.
So again if something we consider if we had a use of the capital we don't at the present time.
Development is fully funded.
But it's not something that we would not consider.
We will certainly be open-minded if it makes sense.
Okay and then going back to this occupancy issue you talked about.
It looks like the comps get a little tougher throughout the year.
You also said that I think in the second quarter so far you are over 96% occupied and you're showing a good year-over-year growth and occupancy.
So how do we think about this idea of recognizing that? The whole industry is kind of peaking occupancy and people are worried about year-over-year occupancy growth and yet maybe we would get a push through that as an industry just because the main trend is so strong.
What was considered as peak occupancy won't be peak occupancy.
Well I think you are referring to kind of 97 is the new 95 and I mean I think we are optimistic that could play out.
We didn't do anything differently relative to pricing philosophies or processes in Q4 and Q1 but yet demand really is the key driver and if you take the position that some of these core markets are really under house going back 10 years and we have an improving economy I completely agree that there is no reason why 97 could [audio gap] be kind of the new standard for the years to come in some of these core markets.
We’ll go next to John Kim with BMO Capital markets.
Thank you.
I really had just one data point with some seasonality.
But how concerned are you of the weak GDP number that came out this morning? And particular if GDP moderates let’s say 2% growth this year how much will that impact your ability to raise rents at two times that rate? We haven’t that time of course to analyze the GDP number that just came out a couple hours ago.
But some of that relatively low number was based on lower exports and U.S.
dollar strength and things that just really don’t have a direct impact and I’m not suggesting none of our residents or employee being export oriented industries.
But it’s just I think one number for one quarter and it’s been a pretty uneven recovery.
So I guess we don’t we feel like supplying demands [we can sell] at this point in our business.
Okay and on the asset sales during the period was it an important distinction that they were sold in the sub-urban markets? Are you continuing to focus your portfolio in the core studies? I guess they are representatives of the assets that we’ve been selling over the past half of those years being older garden surface park kind of properties and in response to one of your earlier questions that you’ll being to see more of that in our core markets going forward.
So the older garden type product in our core markets you’ll see is trade out going forward providing we can find the reinvestment opportunity.
Got it and then also on your development pipeline the stabilize deal you disclosed this period on complete and stabilized development with 5.9% which I think was one of the highest number if you produce in last few quarter.
But I was wondering if you could disclose the yield of the developments that we are stabilize this quarter of a completed in prior quarters? Stabilize this quarter I mean approaching 6% I guess the deal is that we completed in 2014 which I assume will then be those would stabilize this year.
We think we’ll stabilize in the upper five close to 6%.
We’ll go next to Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
Good morning just a few questions here and I’m going to guess that they are both for Mark will take them the first is the Fannie and Freddie issue with their production caps.
If the FHA doesn’t increase those caps are you concerned about an impact as far as in the most multi-family market or is it something the private lenders already stepping up and even if both Fannie and Freddie have accounted for 60 billion in total.
It’s not going to impacted in that private lenders will step in there but it won’t disrupt pricing or transactions in multifamily? I mean we’ve been monitoring that situation for a while and just so everyone has the fact straight Fannie and Freddie were given by the regulator a $30 billion per year production limit and they are getting relatively close to those limits.
Currently the regulator is considering this matter and may have some sort of decision in the near term.
What I’ll say about EQR’s capital needs and you were asking more about this positions which I’ll get through in a minute but I mean we’re lucky and it’s enviable position of having access in the secured market and preferred market and the like company market will trade now is very competitive and very strong and all those markets now except the preferred market are cheaper than Fannie and Freddie for us.
On the disposition side we have not seen any impact and in fact just sold an asset few days ago in Orlando and though there has been a lot of discussion about this matter in investment sales community.
There wasn’t any impact on our pricing we weren’t re-traded on it so we’ll have to see what the regulator decides i.e.
more of the opinion that the market can adjust to some of this if given time but we’ll just have to wait and see.
Let me add just one thing here out if I may I’d be far more concerned about this if we still own the $5 billion of product that we had sold over the last couple of years and what we own today.
As I’ve noted in one of my responses to one of the previous question we’re fine knowing that what we have today and I think that to that source of debt capital is far more important to what we have already sold and what we would sell going forward.
And then the second question is on your CP program.
The recent articles in the newspaper about moving some of the money markets to flooding any of these rather than fixed does that affect the buyers of your CP paper? Would those buyers now buy short-term governments or the buyers of your CP paper are not the same as the people who have the prime funds et cetera? Yes I think the later.
We’re A2/P2 rated so corporate own us maybe a life insurance company or two owners love put money aside waiting for long term bond issuances to come out in the market generally.
It is at the high quality.
They’re not really allowed to own A2/P2 paper so I don’t think that’s going to make a great deal of difference to us.
We’ll go next to Dave Bragg with Green Street Advisors.
On the topic of elevated occupancy we seem to be attributing not a lot to strong demand but can you talk about what you’ve done to reduce frictional vacancy if that could get everyone a lot more comfortable with this idea of sustainable higher occupancy levels? Well I mean that your biggest cost in vacancy is on turnover is vacancy I mean turn costs are relatively minimal.
Actually just in the last let’s just say three weeks we have sales meetings across all of our markets twice a year and I attended four of them in the past two weeks.
And really the easiest way to reduce frictional vacancy is through retention and I think a lot of people in San Francisco understand what’s going on.
Residence and under -- in San Francisco expect large increases.
We see we get numerous emails from residence regarding renewal increases and what we’ve done is we’ve really made an effort to give our people the tools to better negotiate and not necessarily negotiate but to educate our residents.
So our renewal discussions with residents are more about showing them what our competitors are charging bringing up rents on online and so that they can see that this isn’t something that just EQR’s doing this is a macro event that is impacting pretty much everyone.
And I think we have very good success with that and that’s why I think you see even though renewals continue to accelerate turnover continues to decline.
And then certainly just well-located buildings with access to amenities let outside the door and great service by our onsite staff altogether produce great retention.
Also can you point to a change in the number of days that an apartment is down between when a renter departs and the new renter comes in? Have you been able to achieve any efficiencies on that front in the last call it five years or eight years? Well so so that’s – there was a seasonal impact to that so kind of average days vacant call it November through January or probably in the high 20s as you start getting into high traffic season it comes down to the low 20s it’s not 20 on average but there is a lot of noise in those numbers.
What we do is we really hold we measure the -- whole time.
So everyday we’re measuring how many days our staff are holding apartments for people that are moving in the vacant unit.
Someone wants to run a vacant unit they have to kind of take occupancy financial response within five to seven days.
And we try to do that on our notice to vacant unit as well and some of that those vacancy days are influence to some degree by the level of rehabs that we’re doing because it just it kind of extend out those days by two to three weeks.
Yes I just want to reinforce that distinction between the time of economic responsibility and the time of occupancy.
Right some of the comments any department 60 days is decline to choose or paying for today.
And that’s one let me take off a lot of people out there I think on the top operations that will not require as strict about when we have to take on the financial obligations relatively one actually take compared to one actually take occupancy.
And David just at a final note.
David Santee mentioned on the last call are we moved a lot of our lease expertise around.
So that we had four of them in the periods of time where as David Santee said we have the longer whole period.
So we have move to significant amount of our lease explorations out of that slower period of demand.
So that should give you higher occupancy overtime as well.
Okay thank you for all of that.
Next question relates to the Boston acquisition.
Can you just walk us through what looks to be a mid four cap purchase to a high 7 IRR? Well it’s call rental growth.
All being in a great asset in a great location that May as David Santee is discussing today be one that is maybe challenge because of new deliveries but we think over an extended time period we’ll do very well for us.
Okay.
Just rental growth no cap rate compression.
No no.
In fact not cap rate compression on the exited all.
Okay.
Last question just goes back to this broad currently very robust appetite for multi-family assets.
Given the interest some interest in other assets aggregators.
This is always a tough thing to quantify.
But David you observe any degree of portfolio premium today? I guess its portfolio premium or platform value.
I don’t know I think look at quite obvious that the private equity firms have raise off a lot of capital.
Many of them under waited under invested in multi-family.
Multi-family is an extremely leverageable asset and I think that’s may people very interest in the space and be willing to be very aggressive in pricing.
Whether or not that creating portfolio premium I can’t tell you what platform value I’m not sure.
But there is no question that is an off a lot of large capital sources out there that have been looking at this space.
We’ll go next to Ian Weissman with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Most of my questions have been asked in answer.
But just if you could flush out a little bit your color on DC.
-- are mentioned yesterday that the recovery in DC is really happening more in the urban core.
I was hoping you can maybe address some of that comment and maybe decide for between CBD and suburban markets? Yes let me it’s can’t jumping around for few one the numbers can play out you see the strongest growth and the I270 code or suburban Northern Virginia and then South Arlington.
However this year you are going to see most of the deliveries in the I-270 Corridor more possessed.
So Q1 the only market that was really negative for us was Alexandria and again South Alexandria Alexandria is where a lot of the deliveries in 2015 will occur.
So what was good this past year will probably be under pressure this year.
If that helps.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And just one final housekeeping issue it looks like there was 6.9 million or so an income from the law suit settlement that JV in 1Q that should be backed out to keep the normalize FFO.
It looks like you are backing out $0.02 more in 2Q is that also from a law suit settlement or is there something else going on? Correct.
That’s another expected $10 or $11 million we’ll see timing could shift and ops can shift.
Related to another issue or [indiscernible] You’ll go next to Richard Anderson with Mizuho Securities.
I guess when I just do a quick look at my NAV and I put a foreign on quarter type cap rate I mean I get to something close to 90 bucks for you.
I mean is EQR too big to sell? I wouldn’t think so.
I think Sam has demonstrated the sale of EOP that we wouldn’t be too big to sell.
Okay.
I mean we talk about portfolio premium all the rest maybe just occurred to me maybe we should be talking full anyway.
The other question is much more term of a small level on the Boston acquisition would you made that deal in the absence of the MOB sale or is it all about the trade? I guess I’m not sure I can answer question Rich because we didn’t think about it in that manner.
We like this asset we’ve look this asset for a while that have been first part of like portfolio sale and there is one that we had identified.
But we’d like to own if we could break it out of the portfolio.
When it became available we moved on it and my guess is we probably would have bought it.
We think positively long-term about this location about the quality of this asset about what’s happening Boston and my guess is that we probably would have bought it without the sale of the office [building/billing].
But being able to trade with the office building I think probably just help.
But I think it is something that we would have strongly considered even if we didn’t have the office building of the source of capital.
Okay and then last question quick on for Mark.
I know this duplicity charge declined this quarter versus last is there a some sort of accounting adjustment there? Yes just the change in estimate.
This is charge we thought pretty exact comp program would be 11 million and now in the 9 million and just we as we got full information we just refine the estimate.
We’ll go next to Rob Stevenson with Janney.
Good morning guys.
How active these days are you guys on the redevelopment front? Are you taking on wholesale redevelopment or you basically just selling those assets and redeploying capital? We are doing and we give you a fair amount of disclosure and then on page 21 our kitchen and bath renovation process which we call rehab and we spend about 50 million doing that some of that is asset preservation and some of that certainly optional and accretive.
We are doing a couple of large redevelopments one specifically out in Los Angeles.
We took that asset at a same store.
So I think as you see that we own more and more of these that are very hard to replace.
I think you’ll see spend money on these larger scale renovations and we move those from same store like other folks do and now these kitchen and bath refreshes I think those will stay in same store and be something we spend $30 to $60 million on the year end.
Just help us to stay current in the market.
Yes I would say in general Bob assets that we considered to be medium long-term holds will continue to do these rehabs as Mark suggested.
On assets that we think would be short on term holds that might benefit from such a capital expenditure.
We might often sell that asset not unlike the three that we sold in the first quarter for a value add player.
We think that we would might realize more value selling that upside to a third-party rather than trying to do it ourselves and then sell it after the fact.
In terms of the 144 million of land for development on the Page 19 how many projects does that include and how many of those are shovel ready today? I can’t say definitely how many that includes and any that would be shovel ready today may very well be starting.
We do have a couple of sites in DC that have kind of been ready for a while that we kind of put on ice but anything outside of that they’re not shovel ready yet and when they are ready we’ll start construction on them.
And then lastly given the commentary around the reduction in real-estate tax expectations for this year do you guys think that you’re finally over the hub in terms of the really big increases or is this just a specific instance where you got a good benefit out of a couple of markets? Well I think if you go back and listen to some of our previous discussions the 421 A abatement or burn off in New York City will add a 160 basis points to maybe a 180 basis points to our real-estate tax number for the next four years to five years.
So I think this year we’ve kind of couple of breaks.
There’s still some bright spots that could materialize throughout the year but I think high 4s low 5s are probably in the cards for the next several years.
Okay.
Just as a result of New York.
We’ll go next to Dan Oppenheim with Zelman &amp; Associates.
I was wondering if you can just talk a little bit about DC I think with that comments of in terms of having a site that’s ready you’ve been waiting on.
It seems that there are many others as well in that position.
You have any concern that when you do see some sort of recovery in the market that there’s enough supply that comes that ends up being a very immediate recovery there? I guess that’s how the process that will analyze Dan when we believe that it might make sense.
I’m not sure that if there are [indiscernible] a lot of other sites they’re ready to go I’m not sure the owners of those sites will have the capital and the financing given that marketplace to go forward and there may be an opportunity for the more highly better capitalized companies to actually sort of get ahead of that but it’s certainly something that we’ll consider when we decide to go forward on that.
And then in terms of 315 on A in terms of the acquisition there buying a one year old assets there [indiscernible] for value add projects do you think it’s a better market in terms of the acquisitions for those who where you can buy something that’s recent development but without the lease up risk to it that way? I’m not sure I can say anything for certain.
Last year a fairly significant share of what we did acquire we bought either in some stages of lease up and even considered buying something that was under development and my expectation we’ll continue to consider those kinds of opportunities because I think that can help us get a enhanced yield but I guess it’s very difficult to say if there’s anything going on out there of any sort of opportunity other than there’s just not a lot of supply and a lot of capital chasing it.
We’ll go next to George Hoglund with Jefferies.
Yes I just wanted to see on San Francisco and Northern California in general if the strong job growth continues how long do you think we can see these sort of high single-digit low double-digit rental increases? Well we’ve been asking that question for four years now.
who’s to say I mean the deliveries are primarily in downtown San Francisco.
So you’re not delivering much of anything in the peninsula a lot of your growth is being you’re seeing double-digit growth far out in Dublin and now Auckland which was not desirable place to be.
So I think what was a Facebook added double the number of positions or increase 50%.
As long as that continues I don’t see any into these increases.
And let me just maybe answer that question in a different way.
And say that our average rent in San Francisco still well below New York City and Boston.
Right so putting a size the rate of average the absolute rents are still not at the highest in our portfolio.
I think I just suggesting that would see at they would continue to be headroom there.
Okay thanks for that color.
And then also on DC just given the recent trends.
When do you think we could really see material improving DC I mean giving all the delivery still coming online? I mean we’re still at that flat to down.
So I think it’s just going to be the velocity of job growth perhaps change in administration and reallocating more dollars back to defense spending.
I think it’s going to take something from the government to really jump start the economy.
But like I said I think it will be a slow call back until there is some meaningful catalysts which most likely would be the federal government.
We’ll go next to Jana Galan from Bank of America.
Thank you.
Just a quick question on the development pipeline looks like 170 Amsterdam push that one quarter was that just weather related? Yes I guess I just got no that you can push property back one month and have that be one quarter was really nothing to be.
There is no story there Jana.
Okay thanks.
And then just on the energy cost savings is that change outlook for the rest of the year or maybe we could see some benefit as the year --? Well I guess I would say that we’re from a natural gas perspective we’re writing the market.
We did take average of some great for the winter strip beginning December and that continues into March of 2016.
So we’ve locking some material savings there.
But I think we’ll continue to see days in both electric electric actually is the bigger driver and as more -- plan in the Northeast convert to natural gas I think we’ll continue to see benefit from that on both natural gas and electric.
We’ll go next to Michael Salinsky from RBC Capital Markets.
Dave I think characterize the market I saying a lot of demand just seeing a little of supply on the market today.
Is that supply today I mean is that quality supply sitting in -- house or is it mostly value-add.
And then just as for several years into the cycle right now while the early supply that was build --.
Do you seeing more and more that kind of come to market there is kind of restocking the pipeline? Well we keep expecting too.
I will tell you every year Alan George and his guys comeback had may senior into January saying that the brokers have telling them that they’re getting being also to request for opinions and value et cetera and we continue expect to see new supply.
But I guess maybe with financing rates available to refinance these assets and just the scarcity of them it’s possible people that are not willing to sell at this period of time.
Clearly we’re probably a little bit more selective and what we’re willing to buy today which may have served narrow the scope of what we’d be willing to consider but there is just not much out there we do underwrite a lot we bid on what knowing that we’re not likely win so we stay in touch of the market.
But I think that never seen our acquisition list as be as it is today.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
We’ve see a lot of actual grounded up to that kind of development in New York city right now.
Have you seen any pick up in terms of conversion activity be at New York or any other market right now.
I think what would -- the conversion I think is been more talked than action.
There is certainly been some limited but they’re very risky proposition takes an of lot of capital and takes an extremely long time to actually execute and people have talked a lot about potential for conversion but we have seen less than we would expect given the share that we’ve heard about it.
At this time there are no further questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the call back over to David.
Thank you very much.
So before you hang up I want to thank everybody for your time and your interest in Equity Residential today.
And to let you know that on Monday afternoon of the meetings in New York City in June we’re got to be hosting some tours of our new developments our Park Avenue South and Amsterdam at 68 street.
And you all will be receiving a notice and invitations of that.
So stay tuned for more details.
So thank you very much look forward to see you all in meeting June.
This does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Equity Residential 2Q 2015 earnings call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's second quarter 2015 results.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO David Santee our Chief Operating Officer and Mark Parrell our CFO.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The Company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn the call over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us for our call today.
As reported in last night's earnings release our teams across the country continue to do a really great job achieving 4.9% growth in same-store revenue in the second quarter and 5% same-store revenue growth for the first half of the year.
This strong performance was driven primarily by increases in rental rate and the continuation of increased occupancy levels first experienced toward the end of last year.
There's no doubt that we continue to enjoy very strong apartment demand across our core markets despite elevated levels of new supply.
This demand's being driven by the powerful combination of favorable demographics an improving economy and good job growth which create new households and millennials to have a high propensity to rent housing and wish to do so in 24/7 cities across the country that have very high costs of single family home ownership.
So in a nutshell business remains very very good.
We're pleased with how our primary leasing season unfolded.
We're pleased with our results year-to-date and our outlook for the year.
We're pleased with what we're seeing in the markets in which we operate and with the assets we own in those markets.
And we're extremely confident that fundamentals will continue to deliver above trend performance for many years to come.
So to discuss a bit more about our markets I'll turn the call over to our Chief Operating Officer David Santee.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
As we discussed during our Q1 call in April the jobs-driven surge in apartment demand that materialized last summer continues to fuel superior operating results in spite of elevated deliveries across most of our markets.
As expected the 100 basis points of occupancy gain we enjoyed in Q1 across our core portfolio continued throughout Q2 setting the stage for results that were better than expected and providing an operational springboard as we moved into peak leasing season.
On our most recent call we said that the strength that we saw in Q4 gave us the confidence to extend renewal increase offers for Q1 that resulted in renewal growth rates not seen since Q1 of 2012.
Today we are pleased to say that this trend continues throughout Q2 and we achieved a portfolio renewal growth rate of 7.2% the highest growth rate since implementing our new platform in early 2008.
I am pleased to say that this trend continues with July on the books at 7.1% and August already at a 7% which will continue to grow throughout the month.
Additionally the percentage of residents who chose to renew with us was virtually unchanged from the previous two years at 53% which also contributed to our combined Q2 renewal and new lease rate growth of 5.8%.
New lease space rents continue to average 5% year-over-year for the quarter and improved to 5.5% for much of July.
Turnover increased to 14.5% from 14.1% quarter-over-quarter primarily driven by affordability.
However factoring in residents transferring to another apartment within the same community year-to-date annualized turnover is down 30 basis points from 2014.
Home buying at 12.5% of move-outs remains in check across many of our markets increasing from 776 units in Q2 a year ago to 1 914 this quarter with the incremental increase being driven by Denver and Seattle.
As high velocity rent growth continues to drive many of the West Coast markets we experienced 180 basis point increase in percentage of move-outs due to rent being too expensive.
However the line at the door remains long as demand measured by our online e-leads increased 17% in Q2 versus Q2 of 2014.
The resulting applicants that chose to rent from this pool of inquiries also had the highest percentage of 720-plus FICO scores out of the last eight quarters with 90% of all applicants being auto-approved.
Now touching briefly on the health of our markets and our three buckets of revenue growth San Francisco Denver Seattle Los Angeles Orange County and South Florida all make up the plus 5% revenue growth bucket listed in order of year-to-date revenue growth.
San Diego New York and Boston remain in a 3% to 5% with Boston teetering and DC in a bucket by itself at a positive 40 to 80 basis points.
The color remains the same and the picture is bright across all of our markets.
We're halfway through a year of elevated deliveries across most of our markets.
People of all ages and companies of all types continue to move to the city as the generational shift in lifestyle preferences continues to take root.
Not just in our core markets but in cities all across the nation.
Broad-based job growth is driving increased absorption and record lease-ups and for all these reasons we are confident in delivering on our increased revenue guidance.
Now [blowing right on the horn] Seattle continues to absorb units at a rapid pace with 25 new jobs being created in the central business district every day.
As expected the northern suburbs followed by Bellevue are delivering the strongest revenue growth.
However many central business districts and Belham [ph] Capital Hill communities are beginning to show signs of acceleration as delivery of new units are absorbed.
Strong earnings performance announced by Amazon last week will certainly continue to drive positive momentum in the downtown markets San Francisco continues to suffer from a housing shortage as evidenced by year-over-year new lease rents which are up 13% versus same week last year.
San Francisco continues to be a key driver in our revised revenue guidance.
Southern Cal continues to be solid with LA County leading the way in this broad-based economic recovery with only small pockets of disruption due to new lease-ups.
Concentrations of new deliveries in the Irvine area and lower than expected job growth caused Orange County to take a back seat to the growing excitement and investment into the revitalization efforts in downtown LA and a multi-year development of Silicon Beach.
Boston continues to perform as expected with virtually no pricing power in the downtown financial district.
Outer sub markets continue to perform at or above trend as new development is virtually nonexistent.
New York Metro continues to add a steady pace of new jobs and Manhattan assets show strong demand and rent growth.
However Brooklyn is feeling the effects of concentrated deliveries and we would expect the same to occur later in the year on the Jersey waterfront.
DC continues to bump along the bottom but with encouraging job growth numbers that are above the national average.
As pockets of new deliveries come online in the South Alexandria and Rockville areas resident growth has deteriorated while submarkets that have completed deliveries are on the mend.
Our RBC corridor submarket remains the most challenged with year-to-date revenue growth of minus 1.2%.
While we are only halfway through our 13 000-plus deliveries expected this year we still expect our DC Metro portfolio to deliver slightly positive revenue growth for the full year.
Expenses for the quarter were in line with expectations.
Real estate taxes which account for 36% of total expense remain unchanged at 5.07%.
Maintenance and building expenses remain elevated as a result of the storms in Q1 which are offset by significant savings in energy costs year-to-date.
As a result full year expense growth will be in the range of the midpoint of our revised guidance.
Demand for apartments in great locations is exceeding even our best case scenarios.
With a strong jobs outlook and a generational shift in home ownership apartment fundamentals are better than any other time in our history.
With deliveries across almost all of our core markets declining in 2016 and the belief that urban lifestyle preferences will continue its trend some believe that many cities across the country are significantly underhoused to meet the growing demands of all age cohorts creating a road map for continued above trend growth for the foreseeable future.
David? Thanks David.
On the transaction side we were able to acquire one asset in the second quarter which remains the only asset acquired in the first half of the year and remains so year-to-date.
We briefly mentioned this acquisition in the first quarter call which was a 202-unit apartment property in Boston that we acquired for $131 million at a low 4 cap rate.
I've mentioned on several of our recent calls just how difficult it is for us to acquire assets today given the very strong bid for multifamily assets from many different segments of the investment community.
As a result we've reduced our expectations for acquisitions this year to $350 million.
Obviously with only $131 million of acquisitions in the first half of the year this means we will have to find another $220 million of deals before the year is up and I'll have to admit that they're not on our radar at the present time.
So we've got our work cut out for us for the balance of the year to achieve that goal.
On the disposition side we did sell three residential assets in the second quarter along with the medical office building in Boston.
The three multi-family assets were all in Orlando and represented our last remaining assets there so we have now totally exited that marketplace.
These assets averaged 14 years of age and were sold at a weighted average cap rate of 6% and unleveraged weighted average IRR of 8.7% inclusive of indirect management costs.
We calculate the weighted average buyer cap rate at about 5.4% on those purchases.
As discussed also on our most recent call in the second quarter we sold a 41-year-old 193 000 square foot medical office building in Boston for $123.5 million or $639 per square foot and a mid-4% cap rate.
Located next to Mass General this asset was acquired as part of our Charles River Park investment 16 years ago.
And with the current demand for healthcare assets we saw great opportunity to dispose of it and trade into the recently completed multifamily property in Boston with far more upside in both earnings and NAV growth going forward.
Disposition guidance for the year has been reduced modestly to $450 million and so there's no misunderstanding the medical office building sale is included in this number.
This means that we expect to sell less than $100 million over the remainder of the year.
We're currently under contract to hit this number and our disposition guidance will likely change only if we can find more opportunity to reinvest disposition proceeds which as I noted previously will be a tough task given the competition for assets today.
In the quarter we commenced construction on one small development project in Washington DC where we're building 174 units for $73.2 million at an expected yield on cost at today's rents in the mid 5%s.
This deal is in the Mt.
Vernon triangle market directly across the street from our 425 Mass Avenue property and will be delivered in the second half of 2017 which we think will be a very good time to bring new product to the marketplace.
This start brings year-to-date starts to $377 million with the potential to start as much as [$460 million] of new developments for the full year.
Similar to the acquisition market there's a lot of capital chasing development opportunities and land pricing has increased significantly.
As a result and as noted in our last call we're not acquiring land for new development at the same rate we're commencing construction on existing sites held in inventory.
So in addition to a reduction in starts this year we would also expect starts in future years to be down to levels seen over the last several years.
We're also very pleased to have completed our new development on Manhattan's upper west side at Amsterdam and 68th Street in the second quarter.
Hopefully many of you saw this asset in June when we hosted tours during the NAREIT meetings.
And we [indiscernible] showed -- showed on our cover of last night's earnings release.
Like most assets priced several years ago and coming online in the current marketplace we're seeing strong absorption at rent levels at or above our original expectations and we currently expect this asset to stabilize in the low 7%s.
So I'll now turn the call over to Mark Parrell.
Thank you David.
I want to take a few minutes this morning to talk about the revisions we made to our guidance for the full year as well as discuss our recent debt offerings.
In yesterday's release we revised our guidance for our same-store metrics as well as for our normalized FFO per share for the year.
I want to take a minute now to give you some color.
As David Santee discussed we continue to enjoy very strong demand for our properties.
As a result we have raised our expectations for our same-store revenues to 4.75% to 5%.
Our new midpoint of 4.9% is a 40 basis point improvement from the midpoint we guided you to in our first quarter release and an 80 basis point improvement from the guidance midpoint we gave you to start the year back in February.
We have also raised our expectation for occupancy for the full year to 96% which is up slightly from the guidance we gave you last quarter.
As we have discussed before we are getting a benefit from both rental rates and running our portfolio at a higher occupancy level than we have traditionally.
On the expense side we have narrowed our range to 3% to 3.25%.
David Santee talked about the drivers of that activity.
Expense growth will be higher in the second half of the year than the first half of the year due to the more challenging comparable periods.
I'd ask you to remember that we posted quarterly expense growth of 0.6% in the third quarter and 2.2% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
So overall we anticipate annual expense growth for 2015 to be about where we expected at the beginning of the year.
We are proud of our strong expense control record and have posted a five-year compound average growth rate for annual expenses of only plus 1.7%.
We now expect NOI for the full year to be between 5.5% and 6% and we have reset our range for normalized FFO per share for the year to $3.39 to $3.45 per share.
At a new midpoint of $3.42 per share this is a $0.01 per share improvement from our April 2015 guidance.
So I want to break out these details a little bit further for you.
Our improved expectation of same-store operating performance should lead to about a $0.02 per share increase in normalized FFO.
We also now estimate that interest expense will be about $4 million or $0.01 per share lower than we've previously expected.
And this is due to the smaller amount of debt we will now issue in 2015 and we're just going to issue the $750 million that we already have -- we already put out in May versus the $950 million we had in our previous guidance.
With dispositions now anticipated to exceed acquisitions by $100 million the excess cash will be applied for now to reduce debt and will eliminate the need to source additional debt in 2015.
Also we expect to have higher capitalized interest than our prior guidance due to a slightly faster pace of development spending than we previously expected.
We are also getting a benefit from lower floating rates on our successful new commercial paper program.
On a negative side we'll see about $0.02 per share more transaction dilution than we expected.
And that's primarily as a result of our lower expectations for acquisitions.
As we stated in our release and as David Neithercut just described we have lowered our expectations for acquisitions to $350 million for the year and that's down from $500 million and we have now assumed that any of these acquisitions that we do occur very late in the year.
To sum it up the improvement of approximately $0.02 per share from our better than previously expected NOI and a pickup of about $0.01 per share from lower total interest expense will be offset by about $0.02 per share in increased dilution from slower and less acquisition activity.
And that will leave us at the end of the day with a $0.01 net improvement to our annual normalized FFO guidance at the midpoint.
So now onto the balance sheet for a moment.
In May we were pleased to successfully execute on two simultaneous debt offerings.
We issued $300 million of 30 year unsecured bonds at an all-in effective rate of about 4.55% and this was our second 30-year debt issuance in the last year.
We also issued $450 million of 10-year paper and that was at an all-in effective rate of 3.81%.
Both these issuances were very well-received in the market.
We saw tremendous demand especially from large money market funds desiring to invest in bonds from a high quality borrower like Equity Residential that issues larger and more liquid tranches.
Over the last two years we have aggressively taken advantage of historically low long-term debt rates and now have about 10% of our debt maturing in about 30 years.
The weighted average maturity of our debt at about 8.3 years is among the longest in the sector and matches up well with the long hold periods we expect for our new better quality assets.
Our credit metrics are strong and the balance sheet is in excellent shape.
At the end of 2015 we expect to have about $460 million of outstanding commercial paper or revolver borrowings and have availability under our revolver of slightly less than $2 billion.
So Keith we're now ready for the question and answer period.
[Operator Instructions] And we can take our first question from Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
You highlighted the strong operating fundamentals and we've seen the strong growth.
But recently we've seen suburban sub markets outperform urban.
So I'm wondering if you think that trend will continue and what we need to see before urban starts to outperform suburban again? I'm fascinated at this interest of the investment community Nick in what happened over the last 90 days.
We remain quite convinced that -- and I think history has demonstrated quite clearly that over extended time periods the higher density urban markets have outperformed the suburbs.
And when we think about performance we mean about overall total return.
So from time to time will different assets or different sub markets quote unquote outperform just in terms of rental growth? I suppose.
But I think over an extended time period I think the total return on the higher density assets will do better.
I think history has quite clearly demonstrated that.
Thanks.
Then just in terms of the development pipeline it looks like you decided to add air conditioning to three of the developments which increased the total cost by about 6% in aggregate.
Can you talk about that decision and then what the impact is on the projected yields for those projects? When those deals were conceived in San Francisco and Seattle air conditioning was not really considered to be necessary for that type of product.
But as more product has been brought to market there and the expectations of luxury product have changed modestly we came to the decision that we should add air conditioning.
And was better to do so now under construction than wait until these assets were completed.
We think we'll get enhanced rents for having done so but at the end of the day we think that they will modestly decrease the sort of stabilized returns but believe over the long term hold and over an extended total return on these investments that we'll at least break-even on that incremental investment or do better on it.
Because we think it's the right thing to do in those marketplaces today that those residents of those markets have an expectation of that air conditioning and that was something for us to do.
So we believe we'll get an increased rent.
It'll be modestly just a few basis points dilutive on a stabilized basis but we think it will be long-term accretive for the asset.
Thanks.
And just to remind me what is the stabilized -- what is the targeted stabilized yield for those assets? Well generally those deals are in the 5s and 6s.
So it would just be a few basis points off of those levels.
We'll take our next question from Jeff Spector with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
David obviously some very positive trends and comments about the foreseeable future and I know of course you're not providing 2016 guidance.
But anything we can read into on your thoughts for 2016 on rent growth at this point? Well I guess you can read into them what you care to read into them.
I think in my quote in the press release my comments today David's comments we all feel very bullish continue to be very bullish on the overall demand for housing particularly in the high density 24/7 urban markets in which we've been focused.
The demographic picture is very powerful.
The job picture very good.
We expect supply to be down in 2016 over 2015.
So you can read into that and we think 2016 which should be a very good year.
Okay.
And then on the acquisition front the Boston unit acquisition.
At a low 4% cap rate you've discussed how the environment is tough to do deals.
How -- can you just talk to us a little bit more about that particular deal at a low 4% cap rate versus I guess other things you're seeing that you're not as comfortable with to execute on? Yes we think that that was -- probably become probably our best asset in Boston.
We believe that the lease-up by the seller had not been done ideally.
We had the opportunity to maybe fix that a little bit.
But we also looked at it as a trade if you will with the sale of the medical office building also in Boston.
And by trading the one for a mid-4% and buying the other at a low 4% it was a good trade and a good capital allocation decision.
Assets today are trading in low 4%s and 3%s in many instances in some markets.
And we're just not -- we are finding other people being far more aggressive in acquiring those assets and frankly we just think every single day away from us people are demonstrating the value of our portfolio and demonstrating the true NAV of our Company.
And that's okay.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then last on the development yields you described DC I guess mid-5%s the rest mid-5%s mid-6%s.
Obviously you're comfortable with those yields with facing potentially higher rates over the next year or two.
Is it that you're just -- you're not comfortable below that? I mean are you still comfortable with the 5%s? I mean at this point of course you have to execute.
How are you thinking about those yields? Well we think that -- we're building at 5%s and 6%s in markets that trades in the 3%s and 4%s.
So we're fine with that.
I think what you're seeing our actions today is unwillingness to continue to buy new land sites at prices today in which we believe development yields are in the 4%s.
So we're comfortable in the 5%s and 6%s again for the high density sort of urban locations that we've been focused on.
So you'll see us continue to work through our existing land inventory but you will see us not likely adding a lot of new land at this pricing.
Our next question comes from Nick Yulico with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the supply picture.
I think you said 2016 you see deliveries easing up a bit in your markets.
Yet the June starts number for multi-family from the Census Bureau was higher than recently.
So could you just talk about the supply picture as you see it today? Sure.
I mean starts in 2015 are not going to result in deliveries in 2016.
So as we look at 2016 we see -- and again let me just sort of be clear.
We're focusing on our markets only and we track projects of 100 units or more or even smaller within close proximity to our existing assets across our markets.
Many of you have toured each of our properties over the years and have met the professional teams we've got across these markets that are tracking this for us.
We're currently tracking more than 1 700 units across all these markets.
So as we track what will be delivered in 2016 in the markets that we're focused on we believe could be competitive to our own product we're seeing a significant reduction in new deliveries.
And as we look at what is either under construction for 2017 delivery and what we think could yet be started that could be delivered in 2017 we see levels around 2016 or a modest increase to that.
So again still well below the 2015s.
Now beyond that who knows? We certainly are cognizant of some of those statistics that have been reported about permits and we question how many of those will turn into starts.
We note in Brooklyn for instance there was an elevated level of permits.
But it was on so many projects that the average unit per property was about 50 units and disbursed over the entire borough of Brooklyn.
We're not quite sure how impactful that will be on some of our properties.
So we're watching the stuff.
And we'll be cautious about 2017 and 2018 but as we look at 2016 we see again a meaningful reduction across our markets.
And again as we mentioned continued very strong demand.
That's helpful.
Thanks David.
One other question you talked about acquisitions becoming more difficult or as difficult I guess as they've been.
It sounds like you're also going to maybe start -- some less in the development next year.
Does this point to a situation then where the Board starts thinking about if you don't have as many capital needs to have even higher dividend growth and even more of your earnings being paid out for dividends? I think the Board thinks about all these things.
I think we've been very good stewards of capital and very good capital allocators and we'll be discussing all those things.
And again a reduction in acquisition activity by us or a reduction in land take-downs and development is not an indication in any way of our belief that fundamentals aren't going to remain very strong for years to come.
It's just pricing has got very expensive and yields very low.
We're happy with what we own and don't believe we need to buy assets at these prices.
And to your point we'll consider lots of different options for capital allocation given those dynamics.
Our next question comes from John Kim with BMO Capital Markets.
Good morning.
David Santee mentioned in his prepared remarks the generational shift you're seeing in urban demand and not just in your markets but across the nation.
Are any of these cities becoming more interesting for you to enter at this point? Any cities that we're not currently in? Yes.
I would tell you no.
As we -- and we've done a lot of work in looking at what's going on in -- across other markets that we don't currently operate in.
And we just find that they don't stream well on all the important sort of things that we want to consider.
Probably one of them which is the most damming if you will is the cost of single family homes as a multiple of income.
There are markets in the country Chicago Minneapolis others in which there's some very solid 24/7 cities very exciting things happening in these cities with millennial growth downtown et cetera et cetera.
But as you look at single family home price as a multiple of income they become very challenging to think of those being good long-term and I want to stress long-term investment markets.
I'm not suggesting you can't make money in those markets but I think one must do so with more of a trading mentality and less of a long-term market.
So we're focused on where we're at and have no intention at the present time of deviating from that.
Okay.
And then a question on development yields.
AvalonBay mentioned on their call yesterday that they're seeing higher achieved yields than originally projected.
I am wondering if you're seeing a similar dynamic in your projects excluding the ones you reconfigured? Absolutely.
Anything that was priced a few years ago land priced a few years ago construction costs locked in a few years ago are outperforming one's original expectation.
I think that sort of almost goes without saying but it just becomes more and more difficult as pricing gets more costly.
So certainly anything being delivered today is at least achieving your expectations.
Certainly it's exceeding your expectations on market rents at the time in which you underwrote it and commenced construction.
So we're very pleased with what we've got in the pipeline.
I think we made a lot of money on that pipeline.
The question is for us is at what price or what cost you continue to probably reload that pipeline and we've decided to take our foot off the gas.
So you're not replenishing the land as much as you had in the past on developments? Are you also seeing higher construction costs as well that are outpacing the rental increase? Well you're just -- well I mean by definition yields are coming down.
So you're having costs go up more quickly than rental rates.
The product that we delivered or started coming out of the recession is delivering 8% 9%.
And then several years after that we're sort of delivering 7s and 6s and then 5s and 6s.
And I said I think the product that we'd look at starting today at pricing that we see coming to the market would be in the 4s.
And so we've made a lot of money on the product that we have already started and have delivered or will deliver soon.
But we've just elected not to start construction on projects today that we think would have yields of today's rents in the 4s.
Okay.
And then a final question on downtown LA.
It's been a very strong market for you but there's a lot of new supply coming to the market.
Is this one of the markets where you may look to replenish the pipeline and maybe protect your market share? We're not about protecting market share.
We'll leave that to the automobile business.
We do have a land site in LA a terrific land site in LA that we could start sometime in 2016.
But we do like downtown.
It's really one of the best-performing sort of markets.
There is new supply there but that new supply brings more density and brings more restaurants and more things to do.
I mean it's kind of a self-fulfilling sort of cycle.
We like downtown and we look forward to working on the project that -- the land site we already own in downtown LA that could start construction soon.
We'll go next to Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning out there.
David just a question for you.
You guys were vocal at NAREIT you're vocal on the call about the challenges of acquiring both existing as well as land sites.
And yet this apartment cycle seems to be going on longer than most people thought.
As well as this year it's got a second wind.
So how do you balance the two between the cycle being longer so therefore there's more opportunity to get a return on whatever you invest today versus the fact that yields continue to come down and are as you point out in the 4s even for development.
How do you marry those two and does that mean we should see EQR remain on the sidelines as long as yields are down where they are? Or do you think that something will break in the investment part that will make pricing come back to be attractive during -- yet while the cycle still continues to grow? Well I guess you marry it Alex by just being happy that you're long right? This pricing is -- it may be difficult for us to rationalize new investments but it just validates everything we've been doing over the last 10 years.
So when you're already long this is a high class problem right? Is it possible that with these elevated new deliveries there will be opportunities to buy assets at prices that make sense relative to taking construction risk? Perhaps.
We don't have to buy.
We don't have to develop in order to kind of create value.
I think the single biggest value creating tool we've got is David Santee and his teams across the country.
They have delivered unbelievable bottom line results for us and have created enormous value out of the existing portfolio.
So we admit that we continue to have assets that we rather sell we'd like to sell if we could.
But it's only if we can find the reinvestment opportunity for those assets.
Absent those opportunities we're happy to sort of sit tight and operate what we have.
We acknowledge that doing so is modestly more dilutive this year than what we had originally forecasted.
But we're quite content to allocate capital in the best way we sort of see fit the opportunities present themselves.
And with George and his team I tell you they turn over every bush and rock and beating every bush looking for a product and remain optimistic that we will find stuff we can buy this year at a little better yield by maybe taking on some risk that we can uniquely manage and we'll be comfortable managing.
We'll see.
Not the first time in our history.
It's probably the sixth time or so in our 20 some odd year history in which we've had relatively little transaction activity.
And I guess I'll tell you that at the end of those lulls we've always come back strong and have created a lot of value in doing so.
So we don't worry about marrying these things.
It is what it is and we're quite comfortable with our plan and think that there will be opportunities down the road and we'll patiently wait for them.
Okay.
And then earlier in the call during the MD&amp;A you guys mentioned move-outs.
But I wasn't clear was that specific to one market? Or was that portfolio-wide the increase in move-outs? And if it was portfolio-wide which markets were you seeing that mostly in? This is David.
Basically move-outs the increase amounted to 600 for the quarter and it's really broken down by three categories half of the 600 were due to affordability 150 were home buying and the other 150 were transfers.
So that's across the entire portfolio.
Okay.
And just finally for Mark Parrell.
Anything else from Archstone out there? Any other either positives or negatives in the -- or are you guys totally done with anything Archstone related? Alex it's Mark.
Yes there isn't a lot left.
We've really wound down all the Archstone related joint venture activities.
There's a little bit left and we give you some disclosure of that towards the end of the preferred issuance.
But it's really quite minimal.
There could be minimal lawsuit costs and master lease costs and stuff that run through for a little while.
But I don't see anything significant on the horizon.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Thanks very much.
I was wondering in terms of the move-outs and the affordability driven ones -- [indiscernible] up in the third quarter just based on more expirations coming through during the quarter plus the way you're pushing rents here.
Is there anything in terms of the -- what you're doing with the rent? Do you think it's sticker shock in terms of the affordability or it is some negotiation where you might be able to manage the turnover a bit and how are you looking at that overall? I guess we don't -- first of all we don't manage to occupancy.
We manage to an acceptable level of inventory to coming at it.
We have as we discussed before we did a lot of work on moving a lot of the Archstone expirations that were kind of out of whack.
So on average we moved probably 32% of our leases from January through May into June July August so where the rents are higher.
I mean at 300 affordability move-outs across 400 properties across three months I don't see any major concern there.
A lot of that remains in San Francisco where rents are still -- renewals are still double-digit.
But as I said there's just a long line waiting at the door to backfill those.
As long as that's the case we're not concerned.
Okay.
I guess just relating to that in terms of the long lines or the duration of the cycle in terms of the hesitancy in terms of pursuing acquisitions here if you think that the long line persists for a while would you be content to sort of try to find something here? So if we look back over time we've had people make large acquisitions and talk about having a proud history of dilutive acquisitions and then those turn out well because the cycle continues.
How do you think about that now in terms of managing it? Well I guess the acquisitions are funded by dispositions.
And so these are trades for us and we're just unwilling to make the trade.
And again it just validates I think that the value in our portfolio and validates everything we've done to reposition this portfolio over the last 10 or so years.
So if pricing is very aggressive in the urban core assets we'd like to own we're already long in those markets and that's a good thing.
We're just not willing to make the trade of the assets we want to sell for the relative value pricing of the assets that people are buying today.
We think that that could become more attractive as -- based upon the elevated -- the new supply that we talked about a little bit.
There may be more attractive trading opportunities for us a little bit down the road.
But again the fact that there are people out there willing to pay 3 cap rates for some of this product I think says a great -- attributes a lot of value to our portfolio and all that we've done.
And we don't feel we need to continue to chase that pricing.
Once you're already long you're in good shape.
Our next question comes from Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning.
Just along the lines of acquisitions could you just talk a little bit about which markets you're seeing the most competition for assets for? And then specifically who seems to be bidding assets up so much to the point where some deals are just not attractive to you anymore? There's a lot of institutional players out there that are buying assets.
Big pension fund advisors we're seeing life insurance companies we're seeing some foreign capital.
It's happening across all markets.
I don't think that there's limited to just any one.
You're seeing some people on land for condos for instance makes it difficult to rationalize multi-family rental on land.
But in terms of existing sort of stabilized deals big institutional players domestically and foreign.
See very little REIT activity.
I think we're not the only ones who are suggesting that that transaction activity may be reduced kind of going forward but very much domestic and foreign institutional investors.
Got it.
And then with the slowdown in acquisitions and development how do you kind of -- how do you offset that from an internal perspective just to drive your historical earnings growth levels? Well again let's understand about just kind of cash flow.
Acquisition is really funded by dispositions and our development kind of funded from free cash flow and we've got development to fund over the next several years.
And a lot of the growth I mean the lion's share of the growth and I think more growth from us than from others is really being delivered as I said from the property portfolio the kind work that David Santee and his team have done.
Drilling down submarket by submarket asset by asset we believe that we're outperforming many others.
And in terms of bottom line performance and putting whatever multiple you want on that creates that incremental value is significant and we think is a much better risk-adjusted return than aggressively chasing development at these prices or new acquisitions.
So as I said earlier this is not the first time/ I think there's been a pause for us in this activity and every single time coming out of these pauses we've been loaded for bear and able to take advantage of a great deal of opportunity.
So we're content to sit and wait and see what happens.
Our next question comes from Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
I know we've had a lot of questions on acquisitions here.
Clearly it's a tough time to be buying.
You've said you don't really have anything in the queue right now and anything that's in the guidance is going to be back end weighted.
Just curious why even leave the 220 in there.
I know it's reduced but given the conditions why not just take that out of there as part of the guidance? But two if for whatever reason you can't find deals that make sense I guess what would be the sort of most natural use of the 220 that would have gone towards acquisitions? Would that be sort of debt repayment? I know you've got some stuff due in the early part of '16.
Yes so I'll answer the first part of the question and Mark can answer the second.
I guess what we've told you is that we reduced the acquisition guidance and have told you that it will be backend loaded and challenging.
So I think that's sort of giving you the pieces of the puzzle the same way.
We could take it down and tell you there's a chance we'll buy more or we'll tell you it's up and it will be tough to buy.
So we figured you can get there on your own with the information we've given you.
And as relates to use of proceeds Mark? Yes.
So just to be absolutely clear we put it in so late in the year that if the [$220 million] came through it would only be worth about $900 000 of FFO to us.
So if it doesn't occur we'll use it to pay down debt.
We'll have as I said a $460 million line balance so we'll pay the line or the CP program down.
That is not a particularly accretive use of funds.
But again as David Neithercut mentioned a minute ago it just loads us up and prepares us for when opportunity does arrive.
So the use of proceeds will be to pay down the line or the CP program in the short-term and in the long term to fund our investment activity as we have done at other points in the cycle.
Okay.
And just one other question on the sort of the demand you're seeing.
So move-outs are up but you've got a lot of folks waiting to get in.
Just curious if you have any stats on how the household income has grown on your move-ins say this year versus last? Well so we use the same qualifier that we used for 20 years.
So when you measure the income of those folks coming in they have to meet that qualifier.
So really when you look back over the 12 months which is we measure the previous 12 months move-ins the numbers never change.
And then we have no means to measure incomes of people that have lived with us for three four or five years.
However I think the important thing is that we have seen a tremendous improvement in the overall credit quality of the people coming in the door with 720-plus FICO scores.
In summary the rent to income will never change as long as we continue to use the same qualifier.
Right right.
I was more just thinking about the income side.
Sounds like whatever rental rate growth you're seeing you're seeing an equivalent increase in the incomes of the people coming in? Correct.
We'll go next to Dave Bragg with Green Street Advisors.
Just to follow up on a key topic on this call.
David you seem to be providing a view on values in absolute terms but don't you think about it on a relative basis? Are you saying that the spread has widened between coastal urban assets where you want to invest in your sources of capital whether it's Denver or Inland Empire asset sales or equity? Yes I guess what I'm saying is that the trade between the sale and the buy has probably widened.
And because of that we're less inclined to make those trades particularly at the price -- I guess what I'd say is -- at the stabilized assets in these -- the coastal markets yields as I said in many instances are in the 3%s.
We're confident that we can manage that spread or have been confident and hope we still can yet this year by trying to find some things to acquire that aren't stabilized assets.
But rather assets that have got maybe some lease-up risk some completion of construction or some other things that might detour an aggressive bid from some of those institutions that will buy stabilized stuff and provide us with an opportunity to buy something with a little better yield which would narrow that spread and make a trade make sense for us.
We'll go next to Derek Bower with Evercore ISI.
Great thanks.
Just wanted to circle back on operations.
Can you talk about where new and renewals are in July relative to where they were in 2014 just the spread that you're seeing? So renewals renewals as far as achieved were 7.2% for the quarter.
For quarter two in 2014 we achieved a 5.5%.
And then just how you do those numbers compare to 2014's level? Well Q2 of 2014 was a 5.5% achieved renewals.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just knowing you have a tougher comp going into the fourth quarter but assuming you hit the midpoint of guidance this year how should we think about the potential earn-in going into next year relative to the one you had coming into 2015? Well so Q4 of last year I think we averaged 95.8[%] 95.9[%].
We're probably not going to run the portfolio up to 97[%].
I think if you start leaving rate on the table once you get up to that point unless we see continued acceleration in the job growth.
So if we see continued job growth above [250 000] and the formula for apartment demand has changed dramatically relative to home ownership.
Then again I'll just say 97 will be the new 95.
I mean we're not managing to 97.
But if we continue to do the same things that we've done year after year as far as rate optimization and managing inventory if we achieve 97 then so be it.
And then Mark just lastly any updated thoughts on timing of the refinancing the 2016 and 2017 maturities? Sure.
We've got a fair amount of debt maturing in those years.
We don't now have any guidance any thought of prefunding that.
We will think about that.
We will think about hedges as well which we've done in the past.
So right now I you would tell you that we're sort of waiting to see the rate climate and feeling our way through it.
But I think we've been pretty proactive in dealing with those maturities.
It's about I think a 5.3% rate next year that we get to re-fi to so I think it will be a pretty accretive refinancing opportunity and so we will be all over that.
But right now the guidance has no prefunding activities in it at all.
Our next question comes from Drew Babin with Robert W.
Baird.
Going forward as it appears dispositions will probably be -- or EQR is likely to become a net disposer over time given where cap rates are on the acquisition market.
And you mentioned that there's foreign demand for assets.
Do you think the cap rates on your sales of apartment buildings may actually drift down as we go into '16 and '17 as you start to see maybe once in a lifetime type bids on some of your better assets? I'm sorry I missed -- not sure I got the whole question.
Assets -- valuations of the properties that we want to sell? Might we see kind of -- as you have already pruned a lot of your non-core assets might we see some of your future assets be sort of higher on the quality spectrum at even lower cap rates versus what you've disposed of to date? Yes but I think what you have a chance of seeing is we'll begin to sell lesser quality product in more of our core markets and the possibility and the expectation that that will attract a bid of a better cap rate than that which we've realized in exit markets.
So yes as we work through exit markets and we'll also sell -- I guess as we did like the office building in Boston -- we'll sell lesser quality non-core assets in our core markets.
And that's another way in which we're trying to manage the spread between the disposition cap rate and the acquisition cap rate.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And back to operations New York City Boston and Seattle stand out as markets where some minor deceleration versus last quarter on the revenue growth front but also kind of versus your six quarter trailing average.
Is there anything going on in those markets? Is it just kind of the supply being a disproportionately weighted towards where you're located? Is it rent fatigue? What are you seeing that might be behind that? Well so let's just take Boston as an example.
A lot of the deliveries are probably within a one-mile radius of the financial district.
We have six properties in that one-mile radius that delivers 40% of our revenue for the entire portfolio.
So that's just an example as we've talked about when we're going to see some head to head pressure and pricing pressure.
And I think you just have such a concentration of properties in such a small area that you just lose pricing power.
So in the case of Seattle probably the same thing a lot of deliveries in Belltown downtown CBD.
When you look at the portfolio up in Bellevue -- I'm sorry north up towards Bothel Snohomish those properties are far outperforming the CBDs just because of the magnitude of the deliveries.
But still the portfolio in Seattle is producing very good results.
So I think it's just a matter of time to flush out these elevated deliveries that are very concentrated in some of these markets.
No different than DC where we have 20% of our revenue coming out of the RBC corridor which is probably -- which is the most negative submarket that we have.
So I think over the next year to 18 months as job growth improves as new deliveries kind of start to dissipate and move kind of back out to the suburbs I think you'll see the relative strength of these markets return.
And New York would be a similar story? Well New York is -- Manhattan is fine.
I think you just look at our portfolio and you look at Brooklyn which is really dragging the portfolio down.
We still have assets in the far outer burbs down near Philadelphia Fairfield those are far underperforming.
So I think when you break down a portfolio like New York when you look at core Manhattan assets those are performing better than expected and above historical trend.
We'll go next to Neil Malkin with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys.
First question.
Given that we have been seeing pretty strong job growth for the last several quarters and just recently we've seen an uptick in household formation what are your thoughts on as we move forward into 2016 given less supply this year? And given that we probably had a breakdown from that 5 to 1 jobs to apartment ratio has probably decreased that we actually continue to see accelerated or higher levels of rent growth than we have this quarter which kind of probably took a lot of people by surprise? Well I guess we won't give you any sort of numbers.
But we've been quite vocal for quite some time that even -- that the levels elevated levels of new supply that we've experienced over the last several years would not destabilize these markets.
That we were confident that the demand was there to adequately absorb this new supply and not destabilize these markets.
And I mean to your point we expect less supply in 2016 and continued good job growth and the inevitable of income growth that kind of comes with that.
This segment of the population is very interested in living in these high density urban markets.
They either value the optionality and flexibility that provides rental housing or can't afford single family housing in these markets because it's significantly -- the multiple of those prices in those homes as a multiple of their incomes are significant.
And that's why we continue to suggest and believe that we're going to have above trend fundamentals for many years to come.
So we see it the way that you've just described it and continue to remain very optimistic about the multifamily business for the foreseeable future.
If I could just add onto that.
Given that lag between strong job growth and household formation if we -- this decoupling continues to happen do you think there's a good chance second quarter of 2016 would have better rent growth than this quarter? We're not going to give any over-unders on growth that far out.
But just suffice it to say we feel very positive about fundamentals for quite some time.
Okay.
Last one from me is given your comments on development being expensive sorry would you look to do things more internally maybe ramp up redevelopment? Maybe do deeper turns or deeper type of redevelopment or are there other kind of efficiencies that you could work on to improve organic growth I guess for David Santee? Well yes it's David Neithercut.
I want to make sure I just define what we mean by our rehabs which is really not redevelopment.
There are others in our space who talk about redevelopment as spending $40 000 $60 000 $80 000 a door.
What we have done and what we have accelerated is our rehab business which I'll have Mark Parrell explain.
Right.
We give you a little disclosure on that on page 22.
We spend right now about $9 000 per unit.
These are usually kitchen and bath freshenings.
We generally get a yield in the mid-teens on that and those have proven to be for us excellent investments.
I do think you'll see that ramp up.
We didn't increase our guidance there because we're still sort of in the formative stages of that.
But I would expect we might spend closer to $65 million there and do a few more of those rehabs.
The cost is trending up for us.
Not because cost items are increasing but the scope of these rehabs are going up.
And the places we're doing them these high-rise units that we now own just demand a higher level of finish.
So you might see us have that number go up a little from $9 000 per unit to $10 000 or $11 000.
And I think you'll see more volume there and more spend because it's a great investment in these very well-located assets that we intend to hold long-term.
We are doing one very significant rehab of an asset in LA.
I guess I will call that a redevelopment.
We did take that out of same-store.
We mentioned it in prior calls.
We may do another.
These are assets that are right on the beach.
They're just terrific we can't replicate them due to zoning requirements.
But they do require more in the $40 000 to $50 000 a unit rehab cost and that includes interiors and exteriors.
So I could see us doing more of this sort of stuff because our assets are so well located now.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time so I'll turn the program back over to our presenters for any closing remarks.
Well thank you all for your time and interest today.
I hope you all enjoy summer and look forward to seeing many of you in the fall.
Have a great day.
And this does conclude today's program.
Good day and welcome to the Equity Residential Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to today's speakers.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Joe.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's third quarter 2015 results and our asset sale to Starwood.
David Neithercut our President and CEO will be our featured speaker this morning.
David Santee our Chief Operating Officer and Mark Parrell our CFO are here for the Q&amp;A.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The Company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn the call over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty and good morning everyone.
And thank you all for joining us on such short notice.
Because of the additional news we released this morning we're going to break from our normal earnings call routine where we would go through prepared remarks on our markets quarterly acquisitions disposition and development activity.
As a lot of comments on any capital market balance sheet and liquidity topics.
Instead I'm just going to make a few brief comments about first about the earnings release and then about the portfolio sale with Starwood and as Marty mentioned after that we'll open it up for questions where Mark Parrell David Santee will also be able to jump in with their insights.
So first as to our third quarter earnings release in the last 20 years we've had only four years in which same-store revenue growth was 5% or better.
And three of these have been in the last five years including 2015.
And we've had only five instances in the last 20 years when annual same-store NOI growth was 6% or better and three of these have occurred in the last five years again including this year.
And our current outlook for 2016 in which we've given an initial range of same-store revenue growth with a mid-point of nearly 4.9%.
So just the 2016 is expected to be yet another of extremely strong growth.
And you’ve heard us say numerous times since the recovery that we felt and were looking at an extended runway of above the trend performance and that continues to be the case.
It’s no secret the fundamentals remain very good the demographic picture is incredibly favourable the economy continues to improve perhaps not at the rate many would like but improve nonetheless which is generating job growth again less than some might hope for but the employment rate has continued to drop which creates new households and millennials and have a high propensity to rent housing many of which which do so in 24/7 cities across the country that have very high cost of single-family home ownership.
And this time we'll continue because even with the improvement in jobs and the growth in new households there still remain an elevated level of these young adults continuing to live at home with their parents.
And I know because I've got one of them myself and we're quite confident and in my case quite hopeful that they will some time some day leave home and even create even more new households and those few households will be renters.
If we see here today occupancy has withheld strong and we're at 96.3%.
Achieved renewal rates averaged 7% in the third quarter with October November and December at 6.7 6.1and 6.3 respectively.
We're very excited about delivering 5.2% same-store revenue growth this year and same-store NOI growth of 6.2%.
In addition we currently expect normalized FFO to grow nearly 9% this year over last year.
So like every call we had with you over the last several years we're pleased to tell you it remains really very good time to be in the multifamily business and we think we are extraordinarily well positioned to benefit from the continued strength and demand for high quality rental housing in a high-density urban coastal markets.
And that leads me to the other release we put out this morning regarding the sale of 23 000 units to Starwood for $5.365 billion.
The decision to sell these assets was the result of a process we began late last spring as we were looking at a stock price that was trading at a meaningful discount to NAV.
And we were assessing the best course of action.
We thought about selling core assets we thought about bringing some JV partners into some core assets.
We kept coming back and kept asking ourselves about what to do with assets in those markets that we did not consider long-term core markets and assets in core markets that might not fit our longer term strategic vision for the company.
These assets would generally be described as older mostly suburban in nature with limited access to public transportation services.
The majority of which are surface parked two to four storey walk-up garden properties not the high-density urban assets but high walk scores that we've been focused in the past 10 years or so.
And while we have historically considered all of these assets as warehouses of capital that could at some time or another be sold and reinvested into core assets.
Overtime we became more and more concerned that recycling $6 billion of capital is going to be a real challenge going forward.
Because of the strong institutional demand for core assets in gateway coastal cities and the competitive pricing that is a result of that demand causing very dilutive trade between what we wanted to sell and that which we'd like to buy.
Yet we thought that absolute valuations of the assets we knew were not long-term pulls were quite good and if those valuations might be at risk by any upward movement in interest rates as well as of any future changes in liquidity provided the multifamily space by Fannie and Freddie.
So we began to think that may be the best thing to do would be to monetize the value we have in these assets today and do a special dividend.
And the more we thought about that the more we became convinced that it was the best capital allocation decision that we could make for our shareholders which kind of ironically is also very similar to what we’ve seen take place in our space several times recently associated states home properties and campus communities kind of a partial go private for cash deal.
So we talked to a handful of folks to be able to acquire a portfolio of this size and work with Starwood over the last few weeks to put a deal together that accomplishes several things for us.
First we realized a very good pricing on assets in markets not considered poor for us and on assets in our core markets that do not fit our long-term strategic vision.
And the second thing we accomplished is that we can now focus solely on our strategy of owning building and operating assets in higher density urban locations with close proximity to public transportation job centers and other amenity subsidies have to offer.
In the investor presentation circulated last night you can see that our urban concentration increases 13% to a total of 78% as a result of these transactions that our NOI for mid and high-rise properties increased 21% to a total of 69% and that our total walk score increased 9% to a score of 75%.
And each of these another metrics we clearly lead the multifamily space and our belief is that long-term risk adjusted returns in the urban core will exceed those in other markets.
So in summary fundamentals continue to be very strong and should remain strong for quite some time.
We feel very good about how we are positioned going into 2016 and beyond.
We are also very pleased to be able to monetize our interest in a large portfolio of assets that don’t fit our longer term strategic vision of the Company in a single transaction and believe that returning this capital to our shareholders and delivering unleveraged internal rate of return of 11.1% is a good capital allocation decision and by doing so in a leveraged neutral way we retain a lot of balance sheet flexibility going forward.
So with all that said Joe we will be happy to open the call to questions.
Certainly.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Dave Bragg with Green Street Advisors.
The first question relates to the 5.5 cap rate can you just confirm is that a forward nominal cap rate or something else? That’s our sort of forward 12 with about $300 replacement reserve Dave.
And can you share a little bit more about the process itself including how big was the bidding tent for portfolio of this size? Well again as I noted Dave we just talked to a handful of players that we thought demonstrate the ability to do a deal of this magnitude as well as the ability to move quickly on a deal of this magnitude and after a short period of time we decided to move forward with Starwood.
And a question for Mark can you just address the 2016 debt maturities? Sure hi Dave.
So the thought process is that let’s say which is our name for this process will generate give or take $2 billion of cash that we will use to repay debt.
So we may end up repaying the vast majority and probably will of our 2016 maturities.
But we are going to undertake a liability management discussion and process and it may end up that we also do some later maturities as well and retire some of that debt.
And our next question comes from Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
Yes good morning.
It’s Michael Bilerman here with Nick.
David I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about use of proceeds in the decision on the special.
I think back to last summer when Taubman did their big fail actually to Starwood as well and they sort of left the door open a little bit to potential acquisitions which they said were going to be very unlikely as given the marketplace but also the share buybacks and then ultimately to a special dividend which is what they ended up doing.
We have seen a lot of volatility just this year in revaluations and I am just curious are you completely vetted to doing the whole $9 to $11 special or would you consider potentially one if an acquisition came up doing an acquisition or two buying back stock? Hi Michael it is Mark Parrell I will start and I am sure we will get some supplement from David Neithercut as well.
So as you know we bought back material amounts of stock before and we would do so again but this particular transaction had a huge amount of embedded gain in it and in order to keep the balance sheet by there any tax embedded gain and to do just a leverage neutral transaction really requires us for every dollar of sales to put about $0.35 towards our debt maturities.
Our gain percentage here approaches 75%.
So as you can see there really wasn’t any room to capably or easily do a stock buyback with the excess proceeds.
That said there is flexibility on the margin we certainly could do 10.31 transactions and tax free exchanges if we wanted to and if the opportunity presented itself.
And just out of curiosity did you look at stay count at all the number sort of shape up pretty well from a $5.3 billion perspective? We did not no not this time nor the last time the first time I guess I should say.
Thanks.
And then this is Nick here.
For the 2016 same-store revenue growth guidance that you gave does that exclude the assets in the markets that you are selling? I think -- this is David Santee yes it's the guidance should based upon [indiscernible] 240 units for next year which really isn’t that just similar than what we're doing this year.
Okay so if so if you stripped out the assets that you are planning on selling what would same-store revenue guidance for 2015 be? It would be about 10 basis points less.
Okay so it’s like deceleration from call it 51249 roughly as what's assumed? Roughly yes.
And then just in terms of the market commentary are you able to go into expectations but do you see North California kind of the six core markets for 2016? Sure.
I can go around the whole in pretty quick let’s start with Boston I think if you look at our Boston results I was a little bit bearish on our ability to achieve the three but I think if Boston had a great lease up I think a lot of the head-to-head competition has been leased up and so I'm a little more bullish definitely more bullish on this year and going into next year.
New York I think is just New York Manhattan specifically is going to be stable again this year it's our lead submarket I think 4.8 for the quarter then you jump over to Jersey City it's a 3.8 and then everything else is a 2.8 so Manhattan continues to be a strong steady market for us and we wouldn’t expect anything different next year.
Washington DC is still I would say bouncing along the bottom we are going to produce positive revenue growth we have in our guidance we factored in some modest improvement call it 100 to 150 basis points for next year.
But really it's just about were the new product is how and what proximity is to current assets but DC we see deliveries are going to be 10 or less next year and with a lot of the chatter in the government sector yes it seems like DC has turned the corner and the largest sector of job growth best sector of job growth is professional services which bodes well for our portfolio.
Seattle.
Seattle we are expecting another strong year still a lot of companies regional headquarters moving to Downtown with Amazon continuing to produce profitability that bodes well for the urban core Boeing is doing great backlogs so we don’t really see any change for Seattle next year and kind of expect very similar growth to what we have seen this year.
San Francisco we are always -- we keep moderating with it's probably going to be less next year but we've been around the last four year so we are backing off a little bit in San Francisco but certainly deliveries are not going to be an issue a lot of these deliveries are downtown so we kind of expect more the same out of San Francisco and then all of the total really is just been is going to be a plus five if not better market all three of those submarkets continue to just deliver solid steady growth there might be a little pressure in Downtown with the new deliveries but that will be more than made up by the coastal communities like Marina Del Rey so to summarize it Washington DC would be in its own bucket next year Seattle all the west coast markets will be in the plus five bucket and then New York and Boston will be in that 3% to 5% bucket.
And we will move forward to our next question.
This one comes from Nick Yulico with UBS.
Hi.
This is Ross Nussbaum here with Nick.
David when you answer the process specially the assets.
Did you also entertain selling the whole company or were you exclusively focused just on this portfolio? This process was focused strictly on this portfolio Ross.
Did any of the people you are talking to you try to make an offer or you just didn’t go to tell them? Conversation never came up.
Okay.
As I'm sure you might imagine some folks this morning are drawing some parallels to when Sam accepted the god father offer back in ’07 for equity office.
It seems pretty clear what you are doing here to focus on your urban CBD high rise assets.
Is there a message that you want to deliver on Sam's behalf that you know should people be reading in somehow that is Sam going to call the market top the market twice in a row? Well I don’t speak for Sam but I think that in my opening remarks I think pretty much described what the process does and in my conversations for Sam on the matter.
It was -- we achieved a couple of things we thought were very important here I think suggesting that this is Sam calling any kind of market call is sort of friendly because we are really not selling the company we are selling a portfolio of assets and we remain you know firmly committed to what we are doing in the identity urban core market so I think that’s a little of a stretch.
And I think this was just kind of a smart portfolio move and a smart capital allocation -- execution.
Okay I think Nick’s got a question as well.
Just a question in terms of next year are you using a sort of tax playing strategy pulling forward income from future year to -- that’s going to affect your special dividend payment in relation fee sales? Hi Nick it's Mark Parrell we are going to pull forward somewhere between call it $300 million to $500 million of 2017 dividend into 2016 is what our base case model implies right now as we get closer and get in the next year we will give you more details on that.
But if you recall my prior comment in this call when I said $0.35 plus $0.75 well that gets you more that a $1 of sales proceeds and by pulling those dividends from ’17 to ’16 we balance the transaction out slightly lower the dividend and give ourselves enough cash to keep our debt metrics even.
Okay and so the extent that you sale more your net sale are more on top of what you have announced today it would likely require more special dividends next year? I should be careful there.
The thought process the $3.8 billion projected dividend and the $2 billion projected debt pay down encompass all of the sales.
The sale to Starwood today for a 5.365 billion as well as the additional 700 million and the reconciling item is wholesome costs which are actually relatively low sale cost and also $200 million to $300 million of 10.31 exchanges that we must do in 2016 due to obligations we have the various OP unitholders.
And we will move forward to our next question from Steve Sakwa of Evercore ISI.
A lot of my questions have been answered but I guess two to David just in terms of kind of shrieking the footprint this does do anything to kind of G&amp;A should we be thinking about any kind of cost savings? And then secondly just where is your that process on development today as we get later in the cycle and how do you think about maybe purchasing land today? As to your first question Steve yes we lose a little bit of efficiency both in property management and G&amp;A as a result of this.
We are able to scale up very easily very efficiently and sort of work sequentially when you go backwards but we think it's an outcome that is satisfactory just given the execution that we think we are getting.
And then we talk a lot about development over the last few earnings calls and we sort of have begun to back away from really chasing land at current pricing we did announce the acquisition of a couple of sites that will be assembled with the third cycle we had acquired previously this year so we have done a little bit the land acquisition in San Francisco but generally we have talked about we have been adding land to our inventory at a much slower rate than what we have been putting into under construction and what we are completing.
So after elevated levels of new development starts last year in this year you could begin to see that reduce going forward.
And we will move forward to our next question from [indiscernible].
Some of them have been answered already.
I have got one or two here in addition.
I’d like to start on I guess the question on the portfolio of assets that you are selling and maybe some potential readers.
As you mentioned in your comments you have been conspiring to sell these assets for over a year going back to last spring so I am trying to figure out if you are trying to tell us anything on what the market on either secondary market or suburban asset value set by selling these assets today do you think that suburban or secondary asset values have peaked or at least the cap rates have stopped compressing? And then maybe some color on the differential between the IR for what you are selling versus the retained core portfolio? Well I guess last spring was not a year ago we are talking about more of a six month process as opposed to a 12 month process.
I think that’s spring...
But I guess I know this is just a reaction to a recognition as I said in my remarks that we owned assets that we didn’t think were long-term core assets we were looking at a challenging market in which to redeploy that capital going forward as well as what we thought was a pretty descent bid to own those assets today and so rather than treat these assets like we have in the past where they were reservoirs of capital that we used to sell assets and redeploy that in our core markets we just didn’t feel that might be a successful going forward and in fact the matter is that we are now very much firmly in each of our core markets and have got good portfolios and have got that good allocations in those markets and didn't have the need to take that capital and put in a market so as to achieve some kind of total.
So whether or not we are $40 billion company with capital deployed across these sort of six coastal markets or a $35 billion of capital deployed across some six markets we didn't really map and so as we were seeing what we thought would be the private equity bid for these sort of assets we thought that they tend to go ahead and see what we could achieve from that segment and if it meant a special dividend we thought that was okay.
Okay I appreciate that and then a follow up on the process itself you mentioned that there is descent interest you focused on a proven better to you felt with more certain to close and quickly close curious if there was any negotiation back and forth on the price given perhaps some more limited group of buyers you're discussing and the size of the deal itself? I mean it was sufficient negotiation for us to get a price those acceptable to us at terms that were satisfactory to us and again it came together very quickly.
Okay but to be clear was there you need to have discounts given here to what you were expecting or the pricing came in spot on to what you were underwriting? Again we're very pleased with the pricing that we achieved in the transaction and in the entire process.
And we'll move forward to our next question coming from Ian Weissman from Credit Suisse.
Hi guys.
This is Chris for Ian.
I was just wondering if you could walk through each of the disposition markets and can you talk a little bit about the pricing and potentially cap rates on how they rolled up to the 5.5% overall cap rate? Well I guess that the level of detail that I'm not quite sure that we're prepared to go into we've really looked to this as a portfolio.
I am not sure this is a wide range of cap rate spread between the individual markets but we've really looked at this not as a collective individual assets at one large portfolio.
When we look at the overall portfolio Orange County and San Diego kind of stick out as the submarket assets but are less than other suburban in Sydney asset plus and the company did you have any thoughts of selling or downsizing those markets and I guess secondly was there any other assets that you're trying to -- when you're negotiating on the sale that you would like to have included in the disposition? Southern California is sort of buyers nature mostly suburban I mean all of California of our assets are really we have got some Downtown San Francisco we have got some Downtown LA but generally if you look at the difference between what I've said with our urban concentration and what was that it is not high rise or mid rise that's really a lot of California.
So no we did not consider selling anything more in any of those markets.
And we sold everything in this portfolio that we wanted to the only things we did not included in this portfolio those assets that we've indicated in the release this morning that we intend to sale during the balance of 2016 which we thought weren’t necessarily additive to this portfolio but would be a better execution in a one-off small portfolio like execution throughout 2016.
And we'll move forward to our next question from Jana Galan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
David maybe following up on those comments I'm curious whether you would think the private market is giving portfolios at premiums or discount and maybe why you chose to earmark those assets for a portfolio and versus the 26 assets were you looking to do individual or small portfolio sales? Well I guess I want to tell you that we are obviously satisfied with the execution of this pricing and we had an expectation that we get good pricing just because of the activity we've seen in the marketplace and we did want to go through a lengthy process of trying to sell these on a one-off sort of basis.
I mean this makes sense in a one big portfolio that we can than think about a onetime special dividend and just have the whole thing sort of makes sense this would have been a very difficult process to achieve any other manner and we do not believe we had to get anything on pricing in order to get it done in one fell swoop and we're getting a -- very satisfied with the overall pricing.
And David this is Jeff just one quick question.
A key focus for us has been the rise of secondary cities and I'm just curious if EQR is messaging here making a statement that EQR does not really believe in the longevity of the rise of the secondary cities let's called them the coming 24/7 although realistically there is not that many 24/7 cities in the world but I understand your strategy and it's consistent what you've said just on these other markets is it just not something you believe in long-term? What I think all these markets are really good apartment markets Jeff.
We really do we think Denver is a good apartment market and we think Sao Paolo is a good apartment market.
What we've been unable to sort of see our way into owning these sort of higher density kind of assets in those markets and believe that the suburban garden likes product that we're selling to Starwood are better owned by people that have a different capital structure than we do and then our focus has been toward owning what we consider to be more forever like assets in the high density urban core are better assets in our capital structure.
So I think that these are terrific markets.
They've been doing very well.
I think they are a little more susceptible to supply over the longer term and we think that within our capital structure the launch from this adjusted returns will be better in the urban core than in a suburban product.
And we'll move forward to our next question from Tony Paolone with JPMorgan.
Can you talk a little bit about what you think the longer-term delta is between the NOI growth in your six key markets versus say these assets that you're shedding here? Just seems like in the short run it's not that appreciably different wondering longer term what you think? Yes and look as David indicated I have been selling these assets would actually be dilutive to 2015 same-store revenue growth but if we think about total return over an extended time period and if you think about what are real cash and cash return of these assets would be as opposed to just kind of a cap rate it's less than this level.
And we also think that the -- there's more width to value of these assets as I said during my opening remarks with respect to rising interest rates or any change in liquidity that Fannie and Freddie provide.
So this is like simply a call about long-term revenue growth although I do believe that history will prove out that the urban core has over an extended time period done better in longer term top-line and probably bottom-line growth but it's also just I think a little bit a hedge about potential valuations and we just think is the right longer term per se.
And Mark I think you went through this and I'm probably going to make you repeat this for a second.
But the 2 billion in cash available to repay debt next year that's inclusive of the Northeast assets that you intend to sell? Yes Sir.
So we should think about is like 6.1 billion producing the 2 billion of cash roughly? Yes so just reconstruct that for you the sources and uses so call it about 6.1 billion of sales proceeds call it around 300 million that we have to reinvestment in assets we have to do tax free exchanges for us so that reach a 5.8 billion.
When you try and solve backwards to keep your credit metrics about constant than needs up that 5.8 2 billion will be used to repay debt and about 3.8 billion will remain for the special dividend there're some immaterial costs and rounding in there as well but it's not significant though.
And then last question on the 4.5 to 5.25 revenue guide for '16.
Can you put some just maybe broader economic brackets around that in terms of what kind of job growth do we need to see to kind of come in at the higher end or lower end of that range? And perhaps maybe what's in the bag at this point from the earn in just trying to understand the sensitivity around that right now? So we kind of think about it in very simple terms.
So we have about 2.3% embedded growth in our rent roll and we think just like this year that the new portfolio will see rent growth in the call it 5.5 you need to figure that the easy math as you get about 45% of that which is 2.5 two or three quarters and so 2.3 embedded 2.5 to 2 and 3 quarters gets you to 495.
We're not underwriting any additional pickups in occupancy although that certainly could be the case if the markets continue to tighten but as far as forecast for the next year we're just kind of holding occupancy flat.
And so does that imply to that job growth in your six key markets needs to equate something fairly comparable to '15 to kind of hit that similar top-line number is that fair or is...? I would say as long as we hover around 175 to 200 jobs that we'll be just fine.
And we will move forward to Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
So quick questions here Mark the common dividend should we anticipate that getting resized or you guys will maintain it? As we said in the release just to be clear the dividend that we are going to pay in January that will be declared in December won’t be affected by this transaction whatever the trustees’ do for that but it won’t be affected by this transaction.
I would expect this resize the annual run rate dividend that would be then payable in April of 2016.
Okay.
And then you guys in the market with one year apartment towers here in New York to a condo converter.
Are your thoughts to contemplate other condo conversion sales? So we are offering for sale a property in the East side of Manhattan which we think is one that I would lend itself better to condominium type ownership and this is the kind of activity I think you will see us more do going forward Alex and we are now focused solely on our core markets and here is an opportunity we think to monetize hopefully good value in this asset and redeploy that into something that might be a better longer term rental play.
So I mean if possible we will see what happens.
If we don’t get a number we realize we won’t play if we do it will be because we think it’s a good price a good value relative to how we think we can redeploy that capital into another asset either in New York or in one of our other core markets.
Okay.
And just finally the military assets it seems like that one would be sort of next for this division but don’t know if there is anything contractual or tax or anything like that that would make it stay within EQR so future of the military assets? Well we have no contractual obligations to continue to do that to sell those require some approvals from lenders and the army.
So if and when that happens it would be subject to their approval.
We have no contractual obligation to continue for any length of time of our management and ownership of that asset.
And we will move forward to Rob Stevenson with Janney.
Mark I know you used 300 of CapEx in the cap rate calculation.
But on a real dollar basis what’s the maintenance CapEx per unit on the sales portfolio versus EQR as a whole for ’15? We don’t have that level of detail right here in front of us I don’t think.
So I can tell you though that on a forward sort of run rate the 5.5 cap rate of this portfolio we think after CapEx is more like a 5.3 so on a real sort of AFFO basis Rob.
And then is there anything that you are sitting here today that you guys see hitting same-store expenses materially over the next five quarters other than the typical property tax and wage growth that’s going to drive you much above the sort of 3 3.25 run rate on the same-store expenses that you guys have been averaging recently? This is Dave Santee.
Here is how we think about 2016 taxes.
We know that -- I am sorry expenses.
We know that 2016 real estate taxes are going to have a 5 handle primarily because of the step up in the 421(a) tax abatements.
We know that payroll should probably come in 3% or less.
We know that we’ve already locked in material discounts and some commodity costs for next year.
So those three categories make up 70% of our total expense.
So when if you do the math on that there is no reason why 2016 shouldn’t look very similar to 2015.
Okay.
And then last question you talked a little bit about development earlier on but when you are in terms of the shadow development pipeline the stuff that’s not ready to start yet.
I mean how big is that today that you can envision starting over the ’16 ’17 period? As you know it’s not as big as what we’ve done in the past several years Rob.
In ’16 we start call it $500 million or $600 million I suppose and I think that’s a pretty good run rate for us going forward.
And we will move forward Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Just a quick question going back to the assets that is for sale in New York that’s above and beyond the set of 100 that’s contemplated in ’16 I believe just curious given all the commentary about how difficult it is to deploy what would be the most likely use of proceeds there and for any other sort of condo type conversion or other asset sales similar to that and what do you think that the best use of capital is today it sounds like starts are coming down so I mean developments will be part of that but I'm not sure if that's really will be able to absorb all of that? While the difficulty to redeploy the capital I was really relative to the yields that we would realize on those assets we want to sell and so this is the 5.5 cap rate transactions deal with Starwood difficult to think that we could redeploy that at a reasonable relative cap rate seeing it how assets is our core markets today generally trading with a three handle if we are successful upon getting the bid that we hope we could keyed out of the market on a deal New York we may actually be able to redeploy that asset accretively in one of our core markets.
So our expectation of current time is that that is what would happen with the proceeds if we are successful selling this particular property in the New York City.
And then just going back to the 700 million of dispositions six in a quarter cap rate on those relative to the 5.5 for the Starwood portfolio assuming that's just general geographies that you are selling being different as well as some asset quality but curious is there any embedded assumption of just general cap rate increases in that 6 to 6.25 given some of the about the noncore nonurban assets you mentioned being more a price sensitive? Now so to this end this difference shows cap rate has nothing to do with an expectation of a changing cap rates between now and then it's just simply a recognition or it is different type of property that would likely trade in a slightly wider cap rate.
And will move forward to our next question from Dan Oppenheim with Zelman &amp; Associates.
I was wondering if you can just talk about the your view in terms of volatility as you now focused on to fewer and fewer market probably and it's more volatility into the results but I guess as specially in terms of this area here in terms of North how you think about that in terms of the exposure going up we have seen extremely strong rent growth as it's been you are delivering couple of more projects and here plus buying more land sounds that you are more bullish although the comments were about thinking of it as going to moderate a little bit here how do you think about the market overall? Yes.
We don’t suggest for a minute Dan that San Francisco does not have its ups and downs and in fact it’s probably had perhaps more downs than other markets but we do recognize that it is a marketplace that has always come back and come back fairly quickly and established sort of new so when we look at the assets where we own there and look at the asset that we are building and the prices per foot per pound that we are building those units we ask ourselves not how do we feel about this asset assuming these trees continue to go to the sky or how do we feel about owning these assets at these levels for the next 25 or 30 years and with that perspective we are quite comfortable with what we own and comfortable with what we have underway as a present time and again this was not mean that things can't stop from that marketplace we've not underwritten them again with these kinds of year-over-year revenue growth that we've seen over the past half a dozen years.
And we just think that over the longer term it's -- these will be good assets to own.
And I just so to mentioned that when we build the tower in Brooklyn half of dozen or so years ago when that deal was delivered it was maybe worth what it cost to good but we knew on firm was the great asset we are located and we do very well with anyone when the market stabilized we do work very well with it and it is worth a considerable premium today if were to cost build on I think we can take the same approach on really on anything that we build we look at the location look at the quality of product what we are basis per unit per square foot in and ask ourselves how do we feel about being in this product over an extended time period not just are we going to ramp merchant builders right we are just not worried about what the spread is 24 months after delivery but it is the right asset for us and for our shareholders over an extended time period.
And will move forward to our next question from Rich Anderson with Mizuho Securities.
Mark Parrell you said 300 million you are obligated to sell or buy through 1031 exchange what are the tax protections are lingering in the remainco portfolio after the sell if any? Yes.
I should have been a little more precise Rich with that.
We are obligated we’re inclined to 1031 that $300 million just because of the implications it has to us in our OP unit program we don’t have to.
We have relatively few assets that are covered and I think that would probably be something between around 30 after this transaction and might have some sort of obligation maybe a little bit less of one kind or another where you would need to do some sort of tax free exchange or you would have some amount you owe to your partner.
Let me follow-up on that just a little more Rich.
I do want to make it clear that these are unrelated unaffiliated OP unitholders but would have taxes in the 100% very significant tax and we feel that inclined as Mark said to the limited amount of this particularly relation to the size of this transaction to try at 1031 those vehicles and we are quite confident that we will be able to do so in assets that we will be really delighted own over the long term.
And just to finish the thought I mean we think that protects the OP unit currency if you are able to take care of these partners even when you don’t have to we think as we go out and trying do more and more deals that you have OP unit components because we do think it's attractive to do that certain place in the cycle that that will be appreciated by the market and by our sellers.
And so David another you mentioned these are markets not necessarily grow to your markets over the long term that you are holding but just better from a perspective of 25 years so you were saying like as the environment changes interest rates go up these coastal barrier markets you just think will perform better or what is the reason that it's not about growth? I wasn’t clear I guess then and while I was thinking about in terms of absolute value with respect to interest rate.
Okay.
You said in our in the materials that we sent out as part of the press release that there is a good bid for these assets today from leverage buyers taking advantage of lower interest rate so I think that these assets as I have mentioned earlier are better owned I think by a leverage buyer and as favorable debt today at favourable rates and should that change we think we’d see a bigger impact on value here but if you would if any in the higher density core markets we have had the most for capital in investment today.
Did any REITs get involved in the process for the asset sale? We did not have any conversations with any other REITs.
Okay and last question you mentioned the 700 million to go will be kind of one offish or a smaller portfolio is any chance of that could actually give more sense to a single buyer situation? I suppose it's possible we’d probably be delighted if that were to occur but just given the nature of these assets and for those of you who have been around the blog for a while these are a primarily assets and we acquired in a growth transactions so there are a lot sort of smaller assets or smaller unit out smaller price points that we think that we might achieve maximum operable pricing and on one off sort of basis but if there were someone who are interested in meeting our expectations on a one off deal we would be go delighted for that to happen.
And we will take our next question from Tom Lesnick with Capital One Securities.
So on the 700 million knowing when the portfolio for next year I think like you guys are pretty confident on pricing and have a pretty type band there on cap rates I was just wondering how far along you were in the market process for that and if you could offer any commentary on timing for next year whether it is probably more weighted towards the first half or second half or whatever? I guess we had several of these assets sort out in the marketplace before we really got on the way with this larger process but we have a good sense of pricing.
And then also just sort of to tell you that we are acted in the markets following deals and so we just a kind of very good handle on what we think valuations are I’ll remind you that when we announced the Archstone transaction we have given our Boards the guidance just to we thought we’d achieve and selling the $4.5 billion of assets and we used during the 1031 trade in Archstone we sold those at something like 99.7% of our expectation so we have got a terrific team out there that are in these markets every day taking care of these assets trying to understand them and understand the marketplace and we just have a high regard for the intelligence that these guys give us and expectations to what we will be able to achieve on this portfolio.
And then on the land acquisitions in San Francisco just curious if you could shed some color on where in the city those are exactly and when you might expect commencing of those development starts? Well this two sites have been assemble with a third site and we have clearly that we acquired earlier in the year and are adjacent to our SoMa Square in the SoMa sort of submarket on San Francisco.
The expectation there is that we can begin to start in maybe in the first quarter of 2017 that will be $170 million project.
We love Downtown in San Francisco we think it will be very well with that transaction.
And then most of my questions on the Starwood transaction have been answered at this point but just a housekeeping question.
Looking back at your 2Q supplement the asset count and unit count is slightly different than what's presented in the transaction said actually in the market I think you guys had 19 assets in Denver and 35 assets in South Florida I just want to what the couple of assets there were that were the difference? Yes well following up on Rich Anderson's question I answered a moment ago there are few assets that are tax protected or are JV assets in Denver and in South Florida and that’s the difference in the count and those will be sold or dealt with separately over the course of 2016.
And we'll move forward to our next question from Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
Congratulations on the transaction and thanks for providing individual look in 2016 and when you look at 2016 which markets were the hardest to forecast? Well I guess by default Washington DC.
We were starting off the year with pretty much flat embedded growth so anything we achieved will have to earn next year either through rate or occupancy.
Okay and then for the transaction the asset dispositions is there any deferred CapEx associated with that transaction price? No.
And we'll move forward to our next question from Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Just along those same lines with the 2016 same store revenue guidance.
Could you just talk a little bit about market where you actually think you should see better same store revenue growth in '16 versus '15 and markets where you actually expected to slow which I mean where you kind of rule everything else becomes the slight slowdown versus overall 2015? Well so the markets that we think we'll do better would be Orange County potentially LA and Boston and potentially New York and DC.
Seattle I think is not less but closer to the same and then San Francisco we hope that will do the same but we're just cautious about forecasting any gains over this year in the next year.
We have another question from Drew Babin with Robert W.
Baird.
I was hoping you could in more detail for example what you're seeing on the supply side in the markets that you're exiting on '16 deliveries across the board higher than they're in '15 or is it more of a long term issue? And those that we're exiting? Correct.
Well this is David Santee.
Denver is delivering over 12 000 units this year and I would tell you that we would expect a good portion of that to bleed into next year with a lot of concentration in the downtown area.
Then for 2016 as of today our forecast already gross down to 6 500 units but when you're talking about garden communities there is no lot of barriers temporary in Denver and the 6 500 number could grow to 7 500 or 8 000 very easily.
South Florida really is almost the same picture 10 000 plus units being delivered again in 2015.
I think what is different in South Florida is that a lot of these new deliveries are pretty much all along I-95 if not all east of I-95 stretching from Miami all the way from West Palm Beach and then very similar to Denver we dropped down to 5 500 for 2016 but again with the lower barriers to entry permitting what have you to scrape and build two storey three storey garden walk up can be done very quickly in those markets.
And secondly you're just talking about kind of this is the broader cycle I was wondering if you could highlight the key differences between now time period versus going back to 2005 2006 and cap rates seem to be kind of in the same place or even lower than they were at that point in time what are the key differences that you're seeing sort of on the supply side or relationship versus that cost things like that? That cost are about the same there continues to be a great deal of equity chasing deals it might be less absolute leverage available but there is still a lot of them at that very attractive rates.
And we have another question from Aaron Hecht with JMP Securities.
I was just wondering if you could outline your NOI exposure by market following these dispositions? NOI exposures [indiscernible] we're digging for that but hold on just a second.
No Problem.
And this is after all the expected dispositions.
Completing the Starwood transaction and the 700 that will occur later in the year.
So we expect and I would say these are all kind of grounded numbers around New York to be around 20% of NOI maybe a bit more Washington DC to be in the 19% San Francisco to be about 18% LA about 15% Boston give or take 11 Seattle about 8 and then the rest really San Diego and Orange County each 4% and that's just about it.
Little bit less than Inland Empire that are likely be included the next time we report next year in our Los Angeles country that is around the far west and really are driven by West co -- by Orange County or LA more so than the Inland Empire.
And then just we all saw the article in the Wall Street Journal about the partial volumes increasing based on Web services and there are some quotes from you guys in that but just wondering what you're take is on how that's impacting expenses in NOI? Does this become a bigger issue now with the dispositions given the higher exposure to mid and high rise buildings? This is David Santee certainly there is a much bigger burden on garden communities because they don't have doormen they don't have concierges what have you so I mean we evolved in working my partner at hand and we've been at conversations with UPS and FedEx and what have you but we've had a very -- we build a proprietary package notification system probably four or five years ago.
Is it a burden on some of the properties? Yes.
We have tried several pieces of technology which are only real partial answers to the problem but I think over the next year or so we will be close to providing 100% solution in buildings where we don't have concierges or doormen but we do believe that if you live in a doormen building or concierges building that accepting packages is a basic expectation of our resident.
And is there a solution in those other buildings electronic lockers is that what you're trying to? No I think I don't want to think we've ruled the lockers out but there is a lot of nuances with the lockers.
When someone orders four tyres they don't fit in one of those lockers.
And remember it's all these unique jockeying between the kinds of postal person FedEx and UPS guys or whoever may jockey for last position for so and hoping that the lockers are filled so that they can just dump the packages.
So it's a very interesting subject that that we hope to solve over the course of the next year or so.
And we have a follow-up question from Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
Yes it's Michael Bilerman just a quick follow-up.
Obviously as a seller you are most concerned with the buyer's ability to close and fund the transaction.
I'm just curious as I assume this is going to be a leveraged transaction.
How much have you already been working with Starwood in terms of the debt financing and what can you tell us about that today? Yes all I can tell you Michael is that we've done the appropriate diligence that we would need to do on a transaction with this magnitude with respect to equity sources and debt sources to give us great comfort that they will perform as expected which would be very similarly to the way they've performed over the last several weeks between the time we sort of agreed on doing this deal and today announced.
So they have done everything they've said they would do and we've done our diligence to get us comfortable we're able to continue to do that and close on time as we expect.
Is there any financing contingency at all in the transaction? No sir.
And then I noticed there was -- the deal was on a ten separate person and sale agreements and the closing is in seven different buckets.
Can you just talk about what the rationale or is it are they slitting it up to multiple equity partners and their different leverage profiles and their different buckets is it timing in terms of getting it that package what drove that? Mostly it is because of some properties that we acquire some consents and approvals there are some rights of first offer that some county has there's also our desire the properties that Mark suggested that that we would want to temporarily want to have ourselves gated and we’d get a little bit of extra time that need be.
So a little bit -- the lion’s share of this will happen in one fell suit and then there will just be and even in those multiple buckets could be at the same time but we just a way to sort of facilitate the overall transaction and allow for some of these other consents and approvals to be able to see.
And is there any G&amp;A savings at all even few million dollars that we should be thinking about as we are modelling through what the company is post the $6 billion of asset sale? It’s Mark Parrell Michael.
At this point what I would tell you is we run a pretty tight ship already and I think Dave Neithercut spoke to the scaling comment it was relatively easy for us to scale up to Archstone which does imply it’s really relatively difficult for us to just suddenly scale down.
So at this point wouldn’t have you project anything meaningful.
And at this time we have no further questions in the queue.
All right thank you all again for your time today and look forward to seeing many of you in Las Vegas in just a few weeks.
Have a great day.
Good day and welcome to the Equity Residential Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Marty McKenna.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Angela.
Good morning and thank you for joining us to discuss Equity Residential's fourth quarter 2015 results and outlook for 2016.
Our featured speakers today are David Neithercut our President and CEO; David Santee our Chief Operating Officer and Mark Parrell our Chief Financial Officer.
Please be advised that certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities law.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain economic risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
And now I'll turn the call over to David Neithercut.
Thank you Marty.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
We have got a lot to go over today and we will start with David Santee providing some color on operations.
Talk a little bit about how last year ended up a discussion on our core markets and our overall outlook for 2016.
I will then discuss the acquisition and disposition activity that we are planning this year that will be in addition to the recently completed $5.365 billion sale to Starwood.
And finally Mark Parrell will take you through how our operating outlook and transaction and other assumptions impact our 2016 earnings guidance our regular and special dividends our recent debt repayment activities following the Starwood sales and liquidity.
Now before we get started I want to make a couple of general comments because we all read and listen to the same things the rest of you do and we know that there is a lot of volatility around the globe and across the financial markets.
And there a lot of questions about how that is currently impacting or might soon impact the domestic economy in general and our business in particular.
Because there have also been some reports of increasing apartment vacancy and declining rental rates.
Like you we don't have a crystal ball.
All we can tell you is what we are seeing real time in our business and what we're seeing is some markets are a bit behind where we had expected at this point and others a bit ahead.
But in total portfolio wide we are where we expected to be one month into the year with 30 days forward visibility.
And as in recent years renewals tell a lot of the story.
Renewal increases in November December and January were all plus 6% and we will also achieve plus 6% growth in renewal rents in February.
Portfolio occupancy today is 96.1% very much in line with our expectations and quite strong for this time of year.
All in all we are pretty much right where we thought we would be when we gave our initial guidance for 2016 back in late October.
So with that said I will let David go into more detail about our markets our current outlook for 2016 and why we think this year will be another good year for the apartment business and for Equity Residential.
Thank you David.
Good morning everyone.
During Q4 turnover continued to decline with the quarter-over-quarter reduction of 7% in gross move-outs.
For the full year turnover declined 40 basis points from 54.9% to 54.5% and then net of intra-property transfers turnover decreased 50 basis points to 48.5% from 49%.
Our continued focus on minimizing Q4 and Q1 lease expirations continue to produce more operational stability as occupancy once again remains stronger through the historical Q4 seasonal slowdown.
Moveouts to buy homes increased only slightly across many markets for the quarter and the full year.
With rents continuing their rapid ascent across most markets it should come as no surprise that affordability our second-largest category for moveouts increased from 13% to 14.1% for full year.
Yet demand for quality apartments in great locations has remained steady thus far.
Similar to 2015 we again we start the year from a solid foundation of occupancy exposure and pricing levels across most of our markets.
Today occupancy as David mentioned is 96.1% and exposure is 20 basis points lower with the net effective new lease rents up 3% year-over-year versus same week last year.
While not the record setting renewal increases we enjoyed in 2015 we achieved a 6.4% increase on our January offers and February will deliver in the same range.
These early indicators coupled with continued favorable job growth fever deliveries on our core markets but more importantly the submarkets that we operate in gives us the confidence to stand by our preliminary revenue guidance range of 4.5% to 5.25%.
However we are mindful of the headwinds from the headlines and the potential odds and impact of the U.S.
economy entering a recessionary environment.
Our 2016 revenue guidance is available by the West Coast with San Francisco leading the way followed by Los Angeles which continues to show momentum in both new lease and renewal gains.
Our 2016 buckets of revenue growth again include San Francisco Los Angeles Seattle and the remainder of Southern California all expected to exceed 5% revenue growth for the full year.
Boston and New York Metro remain in the 3% to 5% bucket as concentrated new supply in each of our submarkets continue to dampen pricing power for new leases.
Washington DC once again remains in a bucket of their own but we have projected revenue growth of 1% to 1.3% for full year 2016.
Our total portfolio assumptions based on 75 123 same-store units that drive the midpoint of guidance our 2.3% embedded growth from 2015 3.5% average new lease rent growth and 6% average gain on renewals.
Occupancy and turnover for 2016 are modeled to be flat.
Expense results of 2% for the quarter were extremely favorable versus our forecast of 4.3%.
Even with our optimistic adjustments that were made prior to our last earnings release we were unable to predict the full impact of a commodities route and record temperature which allowed us to deliver full-year expense growth of 2.5% versus guidance of 3.1%.
The two drivers of the 230 basis point pick up or approximately $4 million in Q4 were spread almost evenly between utilities and payroll with the unseasonably warm weather materially influencing both.
The rapid price decline across all relevant commodities combined with record warm temperatures through December allowed us to beat our original forecasted savings almost threefold for the quarter resulting in an additional $2 million pick up across heating oil natural gas and electric.
Also the warm temperatures combined with a 7% decline in Q4 moveouts allowed us to achieve our historical salary forecast but the need for contract labor and overtime was virtually nonexistent.
This in addition to favorable employee bonus and health insurance accruals allowed us to achieve an additional $1.7 million in payroll savings for Q4 bringing our forecasted total of 4.3% down to the 2% for the quarter and 2.5% for the full-year.
Expense guidance for 2016 of 2.5% to 3.5% is once again driven by real estate tax growth of 5.25% with 190 basis points of that 5.25% attributable to our New York portfolio 421 tax abatement burn of.
Like 2015 we would expect minimal growth if any across the utility accounts.
Payroll should come in between 2.5% and 3% and all other account lines will so flat to minimal growth as the impact of increased minimum wages and Affordable Care Act cost incurred by our outside vendors are already absorbed into our cost structure over the past two years.
So going around the horn and starting with Seattle I will give some brief market highlights some revenue expectations and expected delivery that combined influence our thought process for a full year of 2016 revenue guidance.
Seattle will see an 8% decline in new deliveries from a little over 9000 units in 2015 to approximately 7200.
Knowing that Amazon will continue its large capital investment and delivery of almost 4 million square feet of new office space in downtown and the continued migration of regional and corporate headquarters from the suburbs Seattle should be able to absorb this new inventory with minimal disruption just as it has done over the past two years and as evidenced by the 3100 units that have been absorbed over the past two quarters.
San Francisco will once again lead all EQR markets and constraints to new development are all around.
However like any market where there is a concentration of new supply near-term pricing pressure will always follow.
As a result of the new deliveries in the urban core pricing has appeared to revert to normal seasonal patterns with net effective new lease rents up only 4% today.
As expected properties closest to the urban core are experiencing the most pressure why properties further down the peninsula continue to enjoy year-over-year rental rate growth in the mid teens.
With lease up velocity exceeding normalized expectations San Francisco Metro should experience rapid absorption and deliver another year of high single digit revenue growth as evidenced by our year to date billings that exceed 9.6%.
While headlines are quick to recognize the slowdown of DC tech spending the large-cap giants continue to buy lease or build new office space in anticipation of future growth and elevated hiring.
But as we all know trees don't grow to the sky but our dashboard tells us that fundamentals remain strong.
Renewal offers issued through March remain in double digits and if history plays out we would expect new lease rents to seasonally adjust up from the mid-single digits we see today to higher levels as we move closer to peak leasing season.
With embedded revenue growth of 5.5% renewal rates achieved averaging almost 10% and new lease rents everything 7+ percent for the full-year we would expect our portfolio to deliver full-year revenue growth in the high single digits.
Los Angeles fundamentals appear to be coming on strong with the anticipation of a breakout year for the LA economy and the pro-business city government the rebranding of downtown as a world-class city coupled with meaningful additions to infrastructure and transportation cause us to be very optimistic in LA's ability to absorb the 7600 new deliveries expected in 2016.
Given the concentrated nature of deliveries in the South Park and Hollywood submarkets we see no major hurdles to strengthening fundamentals in revenue growth as net effective new lease rents are up 7.3% with both occupancy and exposure significantly better positioned versus the same week last year.
Orange County in San Diego should continue to see about average growth with 2016 deliveries of 3600 and 2400 respectively.
These levels are on par or slightly less than 2015.
With the concentration of assets delivered during 2015 being in Irvine and in close proximity to a large percentage of our assets we would expect to see better results in 2016 as pressure on new lease pricing subsides.
Our Boston portfolio continues to face pricing pressure as 2015 backloaded deliveries remain in lease up.
With only 2200 deliveries scheduled for 2016 which is a 62% decline and a lower concentration in the financial district and downtown we would anticipate a window of improvement late this year and early into 2017 before an estimated 5000 units are again delivered in 2017.
To date 19 000 units have been absorbed in the past two years without the disruption that one might expect.
With GE announcing their headquarter relocation and the continued biotech related job growth Boston should deliver results very similar to what we achieved in 2015.
For New York Metro we expect to deliver 3% revenue growth as new supply certain submarkets.
After delivering average annual revenue growth of 4.9% for the last 16 quarters the performance of our Manhattan portfolio will be greatly influenced by almost 2000 new units on the Upper West side which makes up almost 30% of total revenue for our New York Metro area.
Most of the projects are luxury with unit mixes that skew towards two and three-bedroom apartments and of late have been more difficult to lease and as a result ends up with a greater economic vacancy loss.
While occupancies remain above 95% we expect Upper West side new lease rates to be flat or slightly positive until a majority of these new deliveries are absorbed.
We continue to see strong fundamentals in pricing in our other Manhattan submarkets the financial district Gramercy and Chelsea.
Collectively these neighborhoods should deliver revenue growth in line with our historical averages that I noted earlier.
Another New York Metro hotspot is Jersey City or the Hudson waterfront where over 1000 new units were delivered in late 2015 and another 1500 expected in 2016.
All concentrated in one to two mile radius.
Thus far we have not felt the full impact as year to date revenue growth is holding at 3%.
Brooklyn will also deliver a number of new buildings but these are north and further east of downtown with the new supply being smaller in unit count and less desirable based on amenities and location.
We would expect moderate impact in Williamsburg and less so in downtown Brooklyn as both EQR communities in this location are delivering in excess of 4.8% revenue growth through February.
Again as new supply comes online in concentrated areas new lease pricing will be under pressure and we see that in our net effective rents today.
However occupancy remains strong across the portfolio at 96.1%.
Renewal rate growth should average plus 4% for the portfolio that combined will produce full-year revenue growth of approximately 3%.
Washington DC will experience declines in deliveries to approximately 11 000 units in 2016 after absorbing over 28 000 units in the previous two years.
With positive revenue growth in Q4 and full-year we are cautiously optimistic about near-term performance.
Should absorption maintain its velocity DC should begin to deliver more favorable revenue growth as new lease pricing pressures ease.
With job growth in the professional services sector continuing to improve an increase in DC business activity as a result of the election year and more of the 2016 deliveries in the suburbs versus Arlington and DC we continue to be optimistic about the long-term performance of our portfolio.
In summary we continue to see favorable fundamentals across all of our markets.
At this point in the apartment rental cycle it is much too early to be influenced by the negative headlines that we all read each and every day.
We remain focused on what the data tells us and we will respond appropriately.
Today our dashboards tell us that not much has changed in that apartment fundamentals at least for the first quarter remain strong leading us to believe that 2016 will be yet another year of performance above long-term trend.
All right.
Thank you David.
We are very pleased to have recently closed our sale of 72 non-core assets totaling 23 262 apartment units to Starwood for $5.365 billion or $231 000 per unit.
I am particularly pleased to realize an 11.1% unleveraged IRR on these investments inclusive of indirect management costs over an extremely long hold period.
This sale was a result of an incredible effort by a lot of folks here at EQR who worked practically around the clock to get this deal done.
And I thank all of them for their dedication and commitment.
And I also thank those who left the company with the sale of this portfolio.
Some of them have been with us for more than 20 years.
We are most grateful to all of these people for their service to our residents and the company.
On our last earnings call when this transaction with Starwood was first announced we explained that this disposition accomplished several things for us.
First we realized very good pricing on assets in markets not considered core for us and on some assets in our core markets that didn't quite fit our long-term strategic vision.
The second thing we accomplished is that we can now focus solely on our strategy of owning building and operating assets in higher density urban locations with close proximity to public transportation job centers and other amenities that cities have to offer.
As we have discussed with many of you since the original announcement this sale and the sale of $700 million of additional assets in 2016 would result in a special dividend of $9 to $11 per share.
And that decision was made due to the challenge we saw trying to recycle $6 billion of capital in today's marketplace where we continue to see strong institutional demand for core assets in Gateway coastal cities and very competitive pricing as a result of the demand.
We continue to believe and are grateful for the support of so many of you who did agree with us for returning much of these proceeds to our investors through a special dividend in a balance sheet neutral way is the best capital allocation decision we can make on behalf of our shareholders.
Since our original announcement of the Starwood transaction demand for multifamily assets in our core markets has continued unabated and so we have considered the sale of several additional assets that due to either operational challenges or submarket issues or pricing potential that we simply thought too good to pass up might represent additional timing opportunities to monetize our interest in certain assets and modestly increase the size of this year's special dividend.
Last week for instance we sold one of three assets acquired from the Macklowe family in 2010 when we paid a total of $475 million for the entire portfolio.
This particular property RiverTower was sold for $390 million or $1.2 million per door at a yield in the low 3s for a five-year unleveraged IRR inclusive of indirect management cost of 14%.
This sale was previously contemplated and was accounted for in our original special dividend guidance of $9 to $11 per share.
In addition we have also started work on the potential disposition of another $600 million of possible sales that if consummated could increase the dividend by another dollar or so per share and hence the new range of $10 to $12 per share noted in last night's press release.
I want to be publicly clear because I am sure many of you will have questions about this.
We backed up the truck once with the sale to Starwood we have no intention of doing so again.
And as I have said we are working on a limited number of additional sales yet this year that could bring our special dividend up to the $10 to $12 per share.
Our guidance also assumes that we will sell an additional $300 million by the end of the year 100% of which would be redeployed in the new acquisitions.
And that level of activity is accounted for in our guidance towards the back half of the year at a negative yield spread of 75 basis points.
This additional $300 million of activity will only occur if we can find suitable investments for which we are willing to trade out of current assets.
So the guidance provided in the press release is for $7.4 billion of dispositions comprised of the $6.1 billion we announced last October nearly $400 million for RiverTower.
Another $600 million expected to be sold during the year adding an additional dollar per share to our special dividend and $300 million of sales that will occur if and only if we can suitable reinvestment opportunities.
Our acquisition guidance for $600 million is roughly $300 million of 1031 reinvestments to cover some very large tax gains of certain unaffiliated limited partners as a result of the Starwood transaction and $300 million of additional possible acquisitions in the back half of the year and matched up with dispositions in the normal course of managing our portfolio.
I will now turn the call over to our CFO Mark Parrell.
Thank you David.
I want to take a few minutes this morning to talk about our guidance for 2016 that includes both the annual dividend and the special dividends our recent debt prepayment activity and then I will close with a discussion of sources and usage in 2016.
Our range for normalized FFO for 2016 is $3 to $3.20 per share.
This range is larger than usual due to some of the uncertainties over transaction timing.
I am going to walk you through some of the bigger highlights at this point.
The biggest reconciling item between 2015 and 2016 normalized FFO is of course the reduction we will experience in net operating income of about $345 million that's about $.90 per share from our transaction activity including Starwood.
The second big item going the other way is the use of approximately $1.7 billion of those disposition proceeds to prepay debt.
That creates an $80 million or $.21 per share benefit or improvement in interest expense.
I will pause here and note that we are expecting about $10 million decline in capitalized interest in 2016 versus 2015 and I did include that in the $.21 per share improvement number that I just gave you.
So once you get past the transaction and debt activity our normalized FFO is driven by the usual suspects.
And that includes an increase of $.23 per share in same-store NOI and an increase of $.12 per share from lease outs.
And the final items are just a variety of other individually less material items that reduced our normalized FFO estimate for 2016 by about two cents per share.
And they include among other things lower income from unconsolidated entities and that's due to the sales in 2015 as the last few Archstone JV operating assets.
So this brings our normalized FFO guidance midpoint for 2016 to $3.10 per share.
So now I am going to move on to the dividends.
For the annual dividend as you know it is our intention to pay 65% of the midpoint of our normalized FFO guidance as our annual common share dividend.
Given the midpoint I just discussed of $3.10 per share we would expect to take $2.015 per share for the year or 50.375 cents per share per quarter in 2016.
Also we expect to pay two special dividends which will total between $10 and $12 a share.
The first special dividend is anticipated to be paid in the second quarter and is expected to be about $8 per share.
There is less variability in our minds about the size and timing of this first special dividend given that the Starwood sales and some of these other sales have already occurred.
But of course our board of trustees retains discretion on all dividend matters.
The second special dividend has been modeled in our guidance at $3 per share based on our existing disposition guidance number as well as numerous assumptions we had to make about the exact timing and amount of the gain per asset and our 2016 operating income and other tax variables.
Similarly the timing of the payment of the second special dividend is less certain in our minds and we will like the amount of that dividend ultimately depend on when these sales close the number of sales that close and certain other tax variables.
Now on to the bond tender and our other recent debt repayment activities.
Consistent with what we have said on the earnings call back in October over the last two weeks the company has prepaid prior to maturity a total of $1.7 billion in debt through an unsecured bond tender and early repayment of a large secured debt pool.
In mid-March we also repay using the cash we now have on hand.
The $270 million of March 2016 unsecured bonds that were not tender.
Collectively the company will incur approximately $112 million in prepayment penalties and that will be recorded as additional interest expense in the first quarter and it will impact EPS and FFO but will not impact normalized funds from operations.
These debt repayment activities were funded with a portion of the proceeds from the Starwood sale and our other recent sales and are intended to maintain and they do in fact actually slightly enhance the company's already strong credit profile.
We now expect net debt to EBITDA for 2016 to be about 5.8 times and fixed charge coverage to be about 3.6 times and this compares for our already strong 2015 net debt to EBITDA ratio of 6.1 times and fixed charge coverage of 3.5 times.
And I am computing all these fixed charge coverage ratios using the more stringent rating agency methodology which does not reduce interest expense by capitalized interest.
Also our near term maturities are now greatly reduced and in fact we currently have only approximately $330 million of debt maturing in 2016 consisting of $60 million in secured debt that matures a little later in 2016 plus the $270 million of unsecured notes due in March 2016 that were not tendered as I discussed previously.
Our 2017 maturities have now been cut in half and now total about $600 million.
The company's liquidity position is excellent.
Currently we have $3.5 billion in cash and our $2.5 billion revolving line of credit is undrawn.
We also have no commercial paper outstanding.
At the end of 2016 we expect to have about $50 million in cash and the revolving line of credit and the commercial paper program between the two will have about $300 million balance.
And that is certainly a lot of inflows and outflows in one year.
So I am going to take a minute and just give you a little background on that and the bigger pieces.
For the full year 2016 we expect net inflows from buys and sells of about $6.8 billion.
To date we have sold approximately $5.9 billion which is inclusive of Starwood and we have not acquired any properties.
We have assumed paying about $4.25 billion in special dividends.
As I just said we expect to pay the first and in second quarter of 2016 in the amount of about $30 billion and the second later in 2016 in the amount of approximately $1.25 billion.
We anticipate repaying approximately $2.1 billion in total debt during 2016.
As mentioned earlier we have already retired approximately $1.7 billion.
We further expect to spend about $250 million during the year.
That’s mostly for the prepayment penalties I referred to previously and about $40 million or $45 million of transaction cost on the dispositions.
We expect to spend about $600 million in development activities during 2016 and the final piece of the puzzle is positive cash flow from operations of about $200 million.
And that $200 million number is net of our annual dividend and our capital expenditures.
In order to balance our sources and usage we have included in guidance a $200 million to $250 million borrowing later in 2016 which we have assumed will be a secured loan and we expect to have the revolver drawn or to have CP outstanding equal to about $300 million.
And I will now turn the call back over to Angela our operator for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
David I appreciate your comments on the uncertain macro environment but from your comments it doesn't sound like there's been a large impact to the transaction market.
So I'm wondering if we were to enter a recession how do you think asset values would hold up in the gateway markets versus the secondary markets? Thanks Nick.
Good question.
Look I think that history has demonstrated that these gateway market asset values hold up better and recover more quickly.
I think we have experienced that certainly through the last recession and the markets in which we are focused today we saw rent recover quickly and surpass the established new highs and values perform similarly.
So we are quite comfortable and confident that we are in the right markets for the long term and think we are in the markets that will perform and should outperform if there is any sort of recession on the horizon.
Thanks.
And with all the asset sales the same store pool is changing considerably in 2016.
It looks like it's about 70 000 units.
So I'm wondering if you can give for the 2016 same store pool what their revenue expense and NOI growth was in 2015.
It's Mark Parrell Nick.
It was broadly similar.
Revenue was slightly lower as you might guess from losing Denver which was a strong market.
But it was within a couple tens of a percent of the same numbers we reported for 2015 for the existing same store set.
Okay.
So you're not expecting for those existing same stores there's not much of a deceleration expected in 2016? Correct.
Not relative to the 2015 same store -- what would be the same store [indiscernible] So comparing the 93 000 units in 2015 to the 70 000 we expect in 2016 there is no meaningful difference in our lines.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then finally for the same store buckets that you laid out earlier have any of the market outlooks changed materially since you gave the preliminary guidance three months ago? No.
I would say that we when we go through the budget process that we just wrapped up and Mark reviews I would say that some started off the year a little differently than we expected but we still feel that full year results are intact.
LA is definitely much stronger than we expected.
Orange County San Diego is much stronger than we expected.
San Francisco starting off a little slower than we expected primarily due to just some of the lease ups and the impact on the closer in assets.
But everything else is really right where we thought it would be.
We will now go to Steve Sakwa with Evercore ISI.
Maybe David Santee could you just comment a little bit more on San Francisco? It's clearly a market that has captured everybody's attention.
Just curious if you're seeing anything in terms of just the leasing activity traffic roommates' situation just any color that you could offer.
I can appreciate the difference between the urban core and maybe the Peninsula.
But just any more color you could give us around that market what you're seeing in terms of future renewals and traffic coming in would be great.
We've spent a lot of time over the last week or so as we went through budgets.
Traffic really remains identical to last year.
Our level of applications which is really the canary in the coal mine are identical to last year.
I think San Francisco we looked at rent growth on a property by property basis.
I would tell you that some of the other developers have different philosophical approaches to lease ups and different tactics that are probably not warranted in my opinion relative to the strength of market but nevertheless we will have to deal with that.
Anecdotally I can tell you that we've had a graphic design guy that's been at equity for probably 14-15 years that took a job in San Francisco and basically he's renting a couch in someone's apartment because there still remains a housing shortage and I think this temporary dislocation given the seasonality of the market will repair itself over the next 30 days.
Okay thanks.
And I guess just a follow-up question on New York.
I noticed on the development page that both of your New York properties had relatively slow leasing and I can appreciate the comments you made about the Upper West Side and maybe the 170 Amsterdam project is falling victim to some of the oversupply on the Upper West Side.
But just anything you could comment on in New York.
Are the developments were they below your expectations and if so what do you attribute that to? Well the recent activity I guess is attributable to a couple of things Steve.
Number one is just you would have less activity in the fourth quarter particularly in lease up.
So I wouldn’t read too much into the fourth quarter statistics or recent statistics on lease up.
The other thing that happens is that when you get in to the later stages of leasing up a building you have less inventory.
And so you are less able to accommodate everybody who walks through the door.
You can imagine people walk through the door early on.
You have got all the ones all the studios all the twos and can accommodate from a wider price range and whatever product we have.
Now you are getting to a point where you have got less inventory in particular ranges and you may not be able to accommodate everyone.
So it just will naturally slow.
And on the Upper Westside as you know it's being impacted by other deliveries and we have larger units either sort of with the inventory yet to lease at our Amsterdam deal and that would also just take more time.
But all in all we have been very pleased with those assets.
Have been thrilled with the value we have created there and they are going to stabilize and will do extraordinarily well for us.
We will now go to Nick Yulico with UBS.
First Mark on the guidance I wanted to see if it was possible to just get a range for the total NOI in dollars for the portfolio this year? A range total NOI in dollars.
Right.
If you don't have it immediately available I can maybe just wait on that.
And then secondly can you talk a little bit about it looks like you guys may have purchased or in contract to purchase an asset in DC which I don't think you've done for a while.
Could you talk a little bit about what was behind your thinking there? Well as we noted back when we announced the Starwood transaction we had close to $300 million of 1031s we were going to have to do to cover some set gains for some unaffiliated investors.
And so a property became available for sale in DC in the [U Street] [ph] 14<sup>th</sup> Street corridor that we thought we could buy at an attractive rate at mid-4 kind of cap rate.
And we thought it was a good trade and would be a good asset to cover.
We can obviously have a big operation in DC and the guys saw that it represented pretty good value.
So walk score of 99 in that very highly desirable marketplace for the demographic that was living in the city.
If I could just revert back on your question.
So for 2016 and this is total NOI so this includes our projected acquisition NOI this includes a few weeks of Starwood I mean this is just the totality of it between $1.6 billion and $1.65 billion would be a good number.
We will now go to Gaurav Mehta with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Just a couple questions on your investment activity.
So the additional sales $600 million and then $300 million at the end of the year where are those assets located? Well the additional transactions that we had first announced that we would do in addition to the Starwood transaction are generally sort of in Connecticut and Massachusetts.
So it's the residual assets that we acquired with the Globe transaction back in the late 90s.
The other properties that in addition to that was the RiverTower transaction which I noted we did in New York.
And a couple of other properties in California that we are considering selling that are in various stages of that process.
And then of the $300 million that I have talked about that would be disclosed if and if we can find appropriate trade assets.
My guess so you will see a little bit here and a little bit there.
There's been nothing specifically indicated at this time.
Okay.
And then the 75 basis point CapEx spread is narrower than the 100 basis points you have been doing for some time now.
Is that expected to continue or is it just for this year reflecting the quality of assets that you're selling? Yes.
I guess I can't tell you what that spread will be going forward in the normal course of our business but yes it should certainly narrow because the assets we will be trading in the future in the normal process of managing our portfolio will be assets in our core markets.
And those will trade at a tighter cap rate to the assets than which we would acquire in those trade markets as opposed to selling assets in the secondary kind of non-core markets that we have been selling over the past half a dozen or so years.
So yes it will be a narrower spread than historical.
I don’t know exactly 75 or not but certainly much more narrow than what you have seen in the past.
We will now go to Dave Toti with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
David a quick question for you on the strategy of shrinking the company.
And I guess along the dimensions of at what point does it become a structural change? And are there any associated G&amp;A impacts or internal management realignments as you go through the year on the dispositions? Well I guess the strategy has not been to shrink the company but to rather take advantage of what we thought was very strong pricing on assets that we knew we didn't want to own it did not make sense for us to own long term.
In terms of any sort of change in G&amp;A so there were no -- not a big structural sort of change.
There might be some little changes that may have to occur but you won't see a big structural change as a result of selling what we have sold and what we intend to sell over the balance of the year.
Okay.
And then my second question just has to do with your thoughts on the acquisition market.
I guess more specifically what would have to change in the environment in the second half of the year to make acquisitions more attractive from your perspective? Would it just be simply pricing or change in the capital environment? Well I guess David the investments are really a function for us of -- the acquisition market is a function of the disposition market.
So it's where we believe we can trade and where we can acquire assets relative to the prices at yields at which we can dispose of assets which represent the capital for that reinvestment.
So we are just really working both sides of that equation.
There are times in which the bid-ask spread is sort of wide and you won't see us transact.
You will see others in which it narrows and we think it would be an advantageous time to transact.
So I think that’s really the answer to your question is it's just how we look at the value of what we want to buy relative to the value of what we want to sell.
We will now go to Andrew Rosivach with Goldman Sachs.
To set this up Mark when you said the 5.8 times debt to EBITDA is that assuming 16 run rate kind of run rate EBITDA with growth on it.
And the debt is net of all the transactions that you guys are announced and planning? Yes.
So the EBITDA number is what our true 2016.
So it does include a little bit of Starwood income we won't have next year.
It does include the growth and the debt is the year-end number.
Got it.
Okay.
So it's not like a perfect run rate to run rate.
No.
But I would expect 2017 not to be dissimilar to that 5.8 or to be slightly better given what we expect on growth.
And the fact that we have also effectively covered all our liabilities for a bit.
Got it.
So here's what I was going to ask.
If you look at UDR today they've got a three year plan that actually implies their debt to EBITDA will be even lower than this actually half of where they were in the fourth quarter of 2009.
We've had kind of your distant cousins if you will in student housing just recently very dramatically take down their debt to EBITDA even lower than your planned levels.
Massive dilution associated with doing that but the stocks have actually behaved very very well.
And I guess my big picture question is do you think that public REITs need to dramatically change their leverage relative to where they've been historically? Every REITs got to look at its business model and particular volatility of its income and we look at ours.
You have got a pretty diversified portfolio.
You have got debt maturities we got very little maturing in the near term.
And you have got interest expense coverage approaching four times.
I mean you really have outstanding metrics in every regard here and the unencumbered pool at our company is the secret not so secret credit strength.
We have about even after all the sales this year about $1.2 billion of our NOI that I quoted earlier is unencumbered.
And that just gives us huge flexibility.
So we think here when we talk to our board and we discuss this we're always interested in making sure we are comfortable defensively and position so we can do things offensively.
And honestly with the liquidity we have and with the access to the kind of channels of capital we have I feel very comfortable with these numbers.
Other people with different platforms and different volatility their income streams probably need to be lower.
We also have relatively little development because of that again we can run the balance sheet in a different manner.
So I think it's kind of a custom no one-size-fits-all.
It's just applying thoughtful principles to whatever your strategy is and whatever your income stream is.
Well in your back pocket you can do $1 billion equity offering dilute your earnings and your stock will probably go up.
Thanks for taking the question.
Well people did that in 2009 and it only lasted for a little while.
It feels a lot like that.
I understood.
Thanks a lot guys.
We will now go to Dave Bragg with Green Street Advisors.
Can you spend a little time talking about development? What are your thoughts on the appropriate level of development for you at this point in the cycle given your cost of capital? And what are your plans for development starts in 2016? Well after starting an average of $1 billion in each of '13 and '14 we I think communicated pretty directly and quite early to the Street that that number would come down and it did.
Starting only 375 or so million in 2015.
And deals that we could start if we feel the desire to do so of similar amount in 2016 Mark's guidance assumes about $350 million of starts.
So as Mark noted in answer to the last question we have seen our development exposure come down considerably.
Land is very expensive.
Construction costs are up yields are down and as we look at the yields that are available in the marketplace we just don't think they make sense for us.
We are also not inclined to go further out into the suburbs in order to sort of chase yield because our strategy is to be focused on the urban core.
We think that the total returns will perform better in the urban core than in the suburbs.
So there is not a function of us saying we want this amount as a percentage of our equity footings on our balance sheet or that percentage.
We just look for opportunities and when we find ones we think make sense for us we will not be shy pursuing them but they are just getting more and more difficult to find.
We did acquire some sites in San Francisco in the SoMa district last year three properties which were assembled.
And we will work on those going forward and we will see those might be a potential 2017 start.
But we've been quite clear I think for quite some time that after an elevated level of starts in that $1 billion range as a result of the land sites that came to us in the Archstone transaction that that number would likely come down and indeed it has.
And we are happy where we are.
If we can find opportunities that we think makes sense for more we will be happy to do more.
But I don't see us for some time ever getting close to the $1 billion start rate that we saw in '13 and '14.
Okay great.
Thank you for that.
And the second question relates to CapEx.
What are your expectations for CapEx spending in 2016? Hey Dave it's Mark Parrell.
I am just going to refer you to page 23 where we have our CapEx guidance.
So what we have done is we have expected and this is on the 70 000 unit set that will be our new same store we think by the end of the year.
That we expect to spend about $2200 per unit.
This year this year being 2015 we spent $1800 effectively.
But that was on the 93 000 same store unit set.
So what we have done is we have tried to think about this as a percentage of NOI as a percentage of revenue.
And with the company's new higher rent per unit and new higher NOI per unit when you look at 2200 that’s about 7% of same store revenue for the new 70 000 units and about 10% of same store NOI.
And that’s exactly really exactly identical to the $1801 we spend as a percentage of the lower same store revenue per unit and lower same store NOI per unit.
So really proportionally it's about the same but on a per unit basis it goes up just like our per unit rents are going up.
I would say it's our contention that over time high rise and mid-rise on a capital basis will cost less as a percentage of NOI than running a garden portfolio.
That contention will play out over a longer time period than just two years.
We will now go to Dan Oppenheim with Zelman &amp; Associates.
Thanks very much.
I was just wondering if you could talk in terms of San Francisco you talked about the expectation that as we go through the spring season you're hoping that there will be better trends in terms of the new lease growth there.
Wondering in terms of the guidance for the full year how much of that is based on that expectation of improvement versus being based on the embedded rent growth that you have at this point based on the strength of last year.
Well.
So call it a high single-digit with five and change built-in.
We know renewals will deliver in the high single-digits which is roughly 50% of our revenue growth.
So really as far as contribution of new rental rate to the overall full year revenue growth it's about 25%.
We will now go to Greg Van Winkle with Morgan Stanley.
Are you starting to see a bigger difference in pricing power between A and B quality properties in your core markets? I'm not sure we've seen any change.
I think that there's been very strong demand for the good-quality product and that demand will push other buyers maybe to lesser quality products.
So I don't think there's been any real change over the last year six months 90 days between the two.
Our teams came back from the NMHC meetings in Orlando last month.
We are quite confident that there will continue to be really strong demand across all qualities in these core markets and have really seen no let up whatsoever.
Okay.
And we're continuing to see a lot more supply growth in the urban cores and in the suburbs.
My question I guess is do you think the apartment industry is building the right amount of products in the right places today? And I know you guys talked about you have a view that the urban core is the place to be in the long run and we are seeing more demand growth there than in the suburbs right now.
But do you think in the near term there might be some overbuilding there relative to the suburbs in some markets? Well I guess I can only answer the question or judge that by the success we have had leasing up the properties that we have developed in the urban core.
And the strength has been just incredible.
You know Washington DC over the last several years has delivered 30 000 units and occupancy hardly budged.
Now we didn’t have a lot of pricing power for several years but as David indicated we hope to see that change in 2016.
I think there is more product being built downtown because more people want to live downtown.
I guess I have questions about how many people want to leave downtown to move to the suburbs that live in a structured box.
So we just think long-term that this move to urbanization is not a short-term but a long-term phenomena and that we are very much positioned where we want to be now.
Particularly having sold what we have sold and what we intend to sell for the balance of the year.
The statistics will be quite clear as the perspective of the percentage of our income from the urban core the walk scores of our properties etcetera etcetera will be without peer in our space.
All right great.
And then last one just quickly here.
On your occupancy guidance you're expecting it to remain about flat in 2016 at 96% I think.
Do you think there's any room you have to drive occupancies higher? Or would you rather not see it climb much more if it means you're not pushing hard enough on rents? Yes.
I think that was our thesis back in late 2014-2015 was that demand increased organically we did not do anything to grow our occupancy.
And we are pretty much in net effective shop and we will let the rent and demand be the god.
Certainly San Francisco is a great example of where demand far outstrips supply and we saw 100 basis point pickup in the previous 18 months while still increasing rents 14% 15%.
That's kind of the job of LRO and our pricing team is to optimize that balance with occupancy and rate each and every day.
We will now go to John Kim with BMO Capital Markets.
I had a question on right-sizing your common dividends.
I realize it's prudent to maximize retained earnings and keep your CAD ratio low.
But some investors unfamiliar with your company may view a cut as a negative event.
And I'm wondering if that was factored at all into your decision making particularly given the new real estate GICS classification.
Yes.
It's Mark Parrell.
Honestly in a year where we are planning to pay our shareholders an $11 special dividend it didn't occur to us that the annual recurring dividend would be the topmost concern and that going down it needs to make sense relative to our cash flow in good and bad times.
It needs to be resilient.
So when operations do decline we're not in a position with the dividends to let some or immediately uncovered.
So I guess we have a policy we think that transparency has a lot of value.
So people who are in that predictability has a lot of value.
So we didn't think about freezing the annual dividend in order to just preserve those optics.
We think people in the long run will see through that.
Okay.
And then are you doing anything different this year as far as marketing to non-REIT investors or maybe something you may change in your reporting? There are some beneficial items such as asset sale gains that are not reflected in earnings and may not be as apparent to equity investors.
Sure.
I mean this is a very important year for REITs.
I think it's a terrific opportunity for us to market to a wider set of people whose eyes are open to the benefits of owning real estate in a public format.
And so we do intend to be pretty aggressive this year in reaching out to generalists to people who don’t own.
And we are trying to think about things in a more general way instead of giving it to specific statistical information that some of our more longer term investors are more focused on.
I think some of these generalists are more focused on more broader demographic trends broader population usage.
You know people being more interested in urban core and maybe not owning cars.
Those are facts that are more of interest to some of the generalist investors than per square foot rent numbers or per square foot build numbers.
So yes we do have a big focus this year on that and we do intend to discuss both earnings in the way they think about it and IRRs in the way we think about.
Getting the most you can get out of a portfolio.
A lot of our activity this year as you pointed out was about maximizing the IRR on some of these assets and returning capital which we think is good for all shareholders generally and are dedicated.
So are you contemplating an alternate to FFO or core FFO? No.
And we will take Tom Lesnick with Capital One Securities.
I think earlier in the call you mentioned some softness in some of the larger units particularly in New York City.
I was just wondering is there any evidence of that being a more widespread trend? And is there any evidence of a stronger home buying environment being attributable to that? No.
I mean there is -- this is David Santee.
There is really no change in home buying in our core markets.
I think the focus on the two and three bedrooms is limited to the Upper West Side and perhaps our new developments.
But when you are 96% plus occupied across most markets you generally have a good mix of product.
Typically in New York the majority of our units are studios and one bedroom.
So the fact that we have so few and the fact that those so few are more vacant really causes us to focus on that from a revenue perspective.
So I don't see any other issues in any other markets relative to demand for larger apartments.
Got it.
And then my second topic was Airbnb.
I was just wondering first if you could quantify what financial impact at all that has had on your business.
And then secondly have you met with them and is there any progress there on resolving some of the issues? Well let me answer your first question.
The economic on our business we have no way to determine that.
There was no deal signed there was no agreement in place at the moment.
Should we entertain an agreement I would say that economic benefits would be at the bottom of our priority list and it's really more about gaining transparency and control of what's going on all around us today.
So regardless of what happens I don’t see any direct material economic benefit to our company.
Perhaps more so with residents and those who choose to participate in the sharing economy.
But I think we have ways to go before anything meaningful comes with that.
We will now go to Michael Lewis with SunTrust.
Thank you.
You've given a lot of good detail on San Francisco.
I wanted to ask more specifically it looks like the Mission Bay development is leasing up a few quarters ahead of schedule and I was wondering if that's due to maybe getting a little bit more aggressive ahead of some competing new supply including some other projects you guys are working on.
Or if it's more of an organic thing that demand has just been that strong and actually a similar situation for your Odin development in Seattle.
It's really the latter.
I mean you answered your own question.
Really Michael honestly just demand is that strong in that marketplace.
Now Mission Bay has been impacted a little bit as of late because of some competing supply in Mission Bay but that's absorbing very quickly.
And Oden and in Ballard in Seattle is essentially the same thing.
There's just that much demand of this kind of housing in these locations.
And so our absorption has been in those assets much faster than what we had thought at rates that met or exceeded expectations.
We are obviously very pleased with both of them.
Thanks.
And then on New York.
Similarly you've given some good detail on the sub-markets in New York.
Last week SL Green made some comments on their call about slowing job growth and retail sales that panicked office investors and maybe apartment investors as well.
I'm just wondering if you're concerned about the job growth picture there.
And as you think about your markets where there's risk so not necessarily the weakest performers like maybe DC but where there's risk where things could fall off the table.
Is New York that market or is San Francisco that market that might concern you a little? This is David Santee.
You know I think perhaps there could be some short-term dislocation in the quality of product that is being delivered in New York.
The only way you could build an apartment building in New York is through a 421a subsidy.
And the rents command the top end of the market.
But there are plenty of people that make considerable amounts of money that can afford those types of buildings.
So I think what you see is what we see.
And in every other market when we have a concentration of deliveries there is near-term impact.
And I don’t see New York falling off the cliff.
I mean it's kind of the number one place that people want to be in the world.
And I think should there be any short term dislocation it would come back even stronger than it had been before as it has every other time that it's taken a dip.
San Francisco I just think that look even though you are delivering the apartments in the urban core the area is still under-served as far as affordable housing.
And when you look at the job projections across San Jose San Francisco and Oakland you are looking at 122 000 jobs in 2016 and delivering only 6000 apartments.
So I don’t see anything materially changing in San Francisco.
We will now go to Rich Anderson with Mizuho Securities.
Mark Parrell you mentioned the $2 200 of CapEx.
How much of that would you put in the revenue versus non-revenue buckets? We have about $725 per unit which equates to about that $40 million we have number.
It's hard for me to put a precise percentage.
Certainly there is a percentage of that that's more or less deferred maintenance but a great deal of it is optional.
We talk about it at investment committee and in fact we would probably also add that there is some sustainability stuff in those numbers that has a pretty good ROI on it.
So I guess I can't give you a precise number.
I think it's probably more revenue enhancing than it is just necessary capital in that rehab category but I don't have some specific number for you.
Okay.
Thanks.
David Neithercut can you quantify not quantify qualify the nature of your buying public here? I know with the $700 million you are expected to sell that was supposed to be individually or small portfolios.
Is that changing at all? And is the audience of potential buyers with FIRPTA and changes in the non-traded REIT world changing along with it? Well certainly nothing has changed with respect to those assets that are in Connecticut Massachusetts that we talk about as sort of the [growth] [ph] assets.
Which were the additional dispositions that we announced that we would sell when we announced the original Starwood transaction.
Those are small assets.
Local and regional players we have got some of those under contract today.
In our last investment committee discussion the team running that told us that they were seeing those bids come in just pretty much as they had expected with the same sort of cast of characters that they had expected.
So really no change there.
With respect to any other change as a result of the FIRPTA I think that many of those investors are still trying to figure that out.
They have been operating under one set of guidelines for a long time and now they are trying to figure out with the new set exactly how they might want to move forward.
So I wouldn’t say that we have seen any change at the present time.
With the $600 million that you have contemplated in addition to the $700 million would that be more like a large portfolio all at once or also kind of in piecemeal? No there is some larger assets involvement.
It's fewer assets than what you might think.
So just a small handful.
Okay.
And then the last question is you had a humongous deal number one was buying Archstone and now this humongous deal number two is selling to Starwood and other asset sales.
What's the crossover there? I guess what percentage of the Starwood sale came from the Archstone buy? I am not sure if any of it did.
I guess maybe one or two assets.
One or two assets at most.
We will now go to Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
Just some quick questions.
On San Francisco and then comparing it to Seattle and the Peninsula it sounds like the rent softness in the fourth quarter was purely supply as opposed to a slowdown in jobs.
But if you could just provide some perspective with what you're seeing across those three tech oriented markets on the job front over the past three to six months.
For San Francisco versus Seattle? Yes.
And the Peninsula as well.
Okay.
Well Seattle continues to be in high demand.
Amazon continues -- we look at the online job openings they are still in the 4600 to 4800 range.
A lot of the supply continues to move around.
I think you will see that supply skewed towards Belleview in 2016.
But as far as job growth in Seattle we see that very strong in 2016.
What do we have here 2.3% almost 44 000 jobs expected in Seattle.
In San Francisco I would say we didn’t see any softness in the fourth quarter.
I think that’s what you ask me.
I think that the softness more appeared right around the holidays and as we came into the New Year.
I mean when you look back over the past two years in San Francisco rents in January were up 15% over the previous year and in January of '14 rents were up 13% over the previous year.
So you are just starting at a different point and when you look at the makeup of pricing both in San Francisco and the Peninsula the urban core is being affected by what's being delivered down there today.
But the job growth outlook down the Peninsula I think are very favorable.
I mean every day we are reading about whether it's Oracle whether it's Apple whether it's Airbnb and the Citi.
All these large companies continue to lockup office space or land or have already started building other office headquarters.
So I don’t see any slowdown in the jobs in San Francisco and I think the softness on the rate that we see today is very concentrated as a result of new supply.
Yes.
And I will just add we are doing a lease up in San Jose today in which we actually saw acceleration in activity in December from what the averages have been from the prior months starting in September.
So I know Seattle is Dave had mentioned about our property in Odin leasing up extraordinarily well our [indiscernible] 99 leasing up extraordinarily well.
And then as we talked about in Mission Bay we are leasing up against some competition that’s slowed down a little bit but that’s not going to be an issue.
Those units will absorb quickly.
Okay.
And then the second question is for Mark.
Mark a two parter.
One have you now repaid all the associated Archstone secured debt? And then two I think in your comments you said that you guys are contemplating a secured issuance at year end.
So if that's the case just a little more color maybe the joint venture asset or there's some particulars with that why you're going secured versus your normal unsecured route.
So thanks Alex.
So the first question on the Archstone secured debt except for the tax exempt debt that we inherited we inherited several $100 million of floating rate very inexpensive Archstone tax exempt debt.
We have repaid all the secured debt that we inherited from that transaction after repayment of the pool that we mentioned in the press release.
On the second question again it's just an assumption.
We haven't done a large secured debt pool in a while.
It's also a fairly small borrowing.
The unsecured market really has a strong preference now for a larger borrowings and larger borrowers like us.
So I wouldn’t go to market on a non-index eligible $200 million unsecured deal.
I would go with something larger like $500 million.
So given our relatively modest needs my sense is we do a secured deal.
We haven't done one in a couple of years a large pool.
So it'd probably be good to feel that market out and sort of see what all the terms exactly are as well.
But that’s really more a function just besides being relatively small.
We will now go to Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
A quick question on your pro forma exposure.
Do you have that by market assuming the Starwood transaction and the contemplated $2 billion of dispositions? Yes.
And we have actually added that Wes.
Those properties that we have under construction sort of on a stabilized basis.
And it roughly breaks down where on the east coast Boston is about 10% New York is 19% or 20% or so and BC about 18%.
So just little bit under half on the east coast.
And then around 9% or so percent in Seattle about 20% in San Francisco and 25% throughout the three markets in Southern California.
So LA Orange County and San Diego.
So a little bit more than half on the west coast.
And again that’s after that Starwood after everything else we are contemplating selling and putting on line and stabilizing all that is currently under development.
Okay.
And then for the first quarter do you guys have the NOI expectations for the quarter excluding the NOI earned from dispositions.
So sort of a core NOI expectation for the quarter? That’s a pretty heavy level of detail.
We will give it a word.
I mean I think we would suggest that same store NOI for the first quarter of 2016 would be approximately $400 million and that goes into the $1.6 billion I quoted earlier.
And that number goes up throughout the year so it's a little below $400 million in the first quarter and ends up being above it obviously.
And then you have got lease up income which in the first quarter might be $10 million to $15 million and by the end of the year is more like $20 million.
But again I think we are getting into a great deal of precision at this point and it will certainly be variability.
Okay.
Thanks for taking a stab at that.
Last one when you look at DC how do you see that market playing out throughout the year? Do you plan to get more aggressive during peak leasing season this year versus last year of for the renewals? Well I guess I would say that you have seen all renewals gradually increase over the last two or three years.
I think two years ago we did a three last year we did a four this year we are tracking at a five.
But really what will be the catalyst for DC is we are moving the pricing pressure on new leases.
I think once people get to a place that they are comfortable with that’s close proximity to where they work and the amenities that they enjoy outside they tend to stay.
So it's just a matter of getting the new people I the door at a higher rate.
And when you look at the distribution of new deliveries you are going to deliver far more units outside of what we call close in Arlington and the district itself.
So I think the stars were lined to start seeing better performance come from our DC portfolio.
We will now go to Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Just a quick two parter around guidance.
On the lower end of guidance and the assumptions behind it is it safe to say that that scenario is strictly based on the outlook of there's a recession in the U.S.? Or is that kind of more behind that lower end of guidance? And then on the other side of the equation is there any scenario you can think about where you could actually end up doing better than guidance similar to what happened in 2015? So when we put guidance together and it isn't a vast difference this year what we do here Tayo is we think about the NOI range would give us on either side.
And then we think about our acquisitions and dispositions which are usually we know them within a certain fairly close tolerance.
The lower end of that range is only accessible if dispositions were accelerated.
We do not get there from our NOI numbers and as David Santee has indicated we have no reason to believe we will be anywhere below our NOI guidance range.
So I would tell you we only get to $3 if we announce next quarter that we have sold a lot of what is in process now very quickly.
So that really is the way you get to the bottom of that range.
It isn't because we contemplated recession in our numbers.
And I will just take this opportunity to go a little bit further and talk about the trend of FFO by quarter because we have given you a guidance midpoint of $0.75 for the first quarter.
And that will go up we think modestly every quarter and will be slightly over 80 by the time you get to the fourth quarter.
So as you look forward it isn't the same sharp increase you are used to seeing from us because there is some dilution.
But I think at the end you will still see a number $0.80 or so by the fourth quarter and probably a little bit higher.
Okay.
And then on the other end of the spectrum when you kind of think about opportunities to outperform guidance? Well that would come from dispositions being delayed and NOI either from lease-ups or from same store doing considerably better than our current expectations.
We will now go to Nick Joseph with Citigroup.
It's Michael Bilerman.
Mark that's exactly what I wanted to ask you in terms of the run rate.
So effectively you're going to end the year let's call it 320 325 on an annualized basis.
When you take out the special dividend your multiple would have contracted relative to when you announced the Starwood deal.
So there clearly is some uncertainty in the marketplace when people see a headline relative to what the underlying valuation really is.
And while your dividend is going down you're actually increasing your yield on a post-dividend basis as well by 20-25 basis points.
So hopefully when people shift through it and start thinking about where your multiple is on a post-dividend basis it would clear itself up right? Agreed in every respect.
And then the second question I was going to ask was just related to New York and the Upper West Side and the Trump buildings.
Clearly there's a lot of Trump news over the last number of months.
I'm just curious whether that has had any effect both positive and negative potentially as he supports New York values on your buildings and any leasing activity there.
Who? Michael here is what it is and it will be what it is for a while would be my guess.
It's interesting to sort of watch and I will tell you that I don’t think anybody who is visiting our properties particularly cares and just it is what it is.
There are no other questions at this time.
Great.
Well thank you all for your time today.
We look forward to visiting with you all as the year progresses.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.