Good morning and welcome to the EQT Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode (Operator Instructions).
After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Patrick Kane Chief Investment Relations Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Andrew.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT’s first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream Distribution and Commercial and Steve Schlotterbeck Senior Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
In just a moment Phil will summarize our operational and financial results for the quarter which we released this morning.
Then Dave will provide an update on strategic operational and regulatory matters.
And following Dave’s remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will all be available to answer your questions.
But first I’d like to remind you that today’s call may contain forward-looking statements.
It should be noted that a variety of factors could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or expectations expressed in these forward-looking statements.
These factors are listed under risk factors in the company’s Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31st 2010 that was filed with the SEC as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are on file with the SEC and are available on our website.
Today’s call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
And you can refer to the morning’s press release for important disclosures regarding such measures and forward-looking statements discussed on today’s call.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced first quarter 2011 earnings of $0.82 per diluted share a $0.26 increase over EPS in the first quarter of 2010.
Three items cumulatively added $40 million to our pre-tax income or about $017 after tax earnings per share.
The sale of the Kentucky processing complex resulted in a book gain of $22.8 million.
There was also an adjustment for non-income tax matters that added about $13 million and we recognized a $4 million gain on the sales some available for sale securities.
Adjusting for those three items EPS was flat with last year’s quarter despite the fact that gas prices were considerably lower in the first quarter of 2011.
Operating cash flow which excludes the impact of gains on sales of the Langley processing complex and the available for sale securities increased by 22% to just short of $250 million for the quarter.
Increase in cash flow comes as a result of another outstanding operational quarter across all three of EQT’s business units including record produced natural gas sales and continued low per unit development and operating costs for production which were already among the best in the industry another record and gathering in transmission volumes lower per unit cost in our midstream business and solid operating income at equitable gas.
The operating results of this quarter were pretty straightforward.
And I’ll just talk to them fairly briefly starting with EQT production where the story in the quarter continues to be the growth in sales of produced natural gas.
The growth rate was a little over 43% in the recently completed quarter over the first quarter of 2010 and sequentially a little over 11% versus the fourth quarter of 2010.
That growth rate was all again – was driven by sales from our Marcellus Shale play which contributed over 37% of the volumes in the quarter up from only 13% in the quarter a year ago.
As I mentioned gas prices were lower in the quarter the realized price at EQT production was just under $4 compared to about $4.74 last year.
At the corporate level EQT received $5.43 per Mcf equivalent or almost 20% less than the $6.45 per Mcfe received last year.
Produced liquids mainly from our Huron and West Virginia Marcellus play accounts for 7% of the volumes and 20% of the un-hedged revenues in the quarter.
As a reminder we do not include ethane in our liquids count as ethane is currently sold mostly as natural gas.
But just FYI ethane also accounts for about 7% of the total well head stream.
Total operating expenses at EQT production were higher quarter-over-quarter as a result of higher DD&amp;A and SG&amp;A although unit cash operating costs were significantly lower consistent with the significant production growth.
Production taxes were down a fair amount in the quarter especially on a unit basis where we reported $0.19 per Mcf equivalent versus $0.28 last year.
Since that large of a decrease maybe not be intuitive remember that Pennsylvania does not currently impose production taxes and a big chunk of our growth came from the Marcellus play in Pennsylvania in the quarter.
Per unit LOE excluding production taxes was also down by 28% to $0.18.
That decrease was as a result of our higher throughput while maintaining the cost structure that again is among the best in the industry.
There is some to month-to-month variability in our LOE activities but we do expect to average about $0.20 per Mcfe for the year.
A couple of notes on the Marcellus well status so far this year we have spud 23 wells with an average length of 4 775 feet nearly 15% longer than our forecasted average length.
We continue with implementation of our new frac geometry design experiment.
So far we have completed 13 Marcellus wells with the new frac geometry eight of the 13 wells are producing four wells are shut in leading on pipeline construction and one well should be turned in line later this week.
We continue to see higher IPs per foot treated of lateral with this new design however we are still gathering more long-term production data before making this design our standard.
We do plan to complete 19 Marcellus wells using the new geometry in 2011.
In other well result news we drilled two wells in Jefferson County during in the quarter both wells had 24 hour flow rates of about 10 million per day these results will be used to mid-size the Midstream build in that new area.
This month we spud our first well in Tioga County where we intend spud 10 wells this year and we will have more in flow on that as the year goes on.
Our norm has been to provide a breakdown of our Marcellus wells that are in various stages of completion.
So as of the end of the quarter EQT has spud a total of 167 horizontal Marcellus wells of which 82 are currently online.
Of the 85 wells not yet online 29 have been fracked and awaiting pipeline hook ups 39 are drilled and awaiting a frac job 16 are either currently drilling or have been top flow and one well is not successfully completed and will be plugged.
We also track our progress internally by frac stages online we’re in the system for our Marcellus wells and on that metric as of the end of the quarter 1 032 frac stages are online 418 more are completed but not yet online 600 are planned for wells that have been drilled to total depth but not yet fracked and 261 are planned for wells that have been spud but again not fracked.
Finally we would like to update the expected returns from our Marcellus play taking into account the continued oil field inflation.
While we have our frac services contracted through 2011 there are variable costs that are passed through the EQT and we expect to see more oil fueled inflation next year.
We now estimate that a typical 5 300 foot well will cost above $6 million.
Partially offsetting this inflationary pressure is a lower expected cost to gather and transport the Marcellus gas.
With all of that considered our all-in after tax IRR estimate is now 64% at $5 NYMEX or 136% pre-tax at the well head again at $5 NYMEX.
Moving on to Midstream results.
Operating income there was up 26% consistent with growth of gathered volumes and increased capacity based transmission charges.
Gathering net revenue increased by a little over $10 million as gathering volumes increased by 31% while the average gathering rate declined by 8% and that decline was driven by the Marcellus mix and a 20% decrease in per unit operating cost.
One change we have made to better reflect the relative economics of the respective plays is that instead of charging a blended rate for gathering the Midstream group now charges EQT production $0.66 per Mcf for Marcellus gathering and $1.25 per Mcf for gathering everywhere else.
As Marcellus production continues to grow as a percentage of our total the average gathering rate should continue to decline.
Transmission net revenues also increased by 22% to $26.4 million driven by the additional capacity turned online in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Keep in mind that approximately 90% of transition net revenues are from capacity charges so as we expand and execute contracts on our system net revenues will continue to grow accordingly.
Storage marketing and other net operating income was down about $10 million in the first quarter.
These results included a $2.5 million reduction in processing fees as we only own the Langley processing complex for one month of the first quarter of 2011 versus owning it for the full quarter of the first quarter of 2010.
The storage and marketing part of the Midstream business relies on natural gas price volatility and seasonal spreads in the forward curve and those have trended down for the last couple of years.
Also third-party marketing volumes and rates for reselling unused pipeline capacity continue to be under pressure.
Given current market conditions we estimate that full year 2011 net revenues in storage marketing and other will be approximately $25 million lower than last year related to storage and marketing activities and about $15 million lower from processing fee revenues collected in 2010 for our Langley processing services that now will be paid to MarkWest.
Having said that we expect to grow – we expect the growth in gathered and transported volumes to more than offset this reduction in net revenue in the Midstream business.
Net operating expenses at Midstream were about $1.3 million higher quarter over quarter excluding the impact of the previously mentioned tax adjustments.
Per unit gathering and compression expense excluding the property tax adjustment was down 20% to $0.30 per Mcf as a result of higher throughput while maintaining our cost structure.
Just a quick note on distribution our operating income was up 6% excluding the tax adjustments mainly from lower bad debt and (inaudible) lower 2.5% than last year.
2011 guidance – today you saw we increased our production sales forecast for the full year 2011 to 180 Bcf.
Our forecasts are intended to represent a realistic projection factoring in some negative impacts from inevitable unplanned delays or disruptions such as delays in midstream projects permit delays weather impacts like freeze-offs etcetera and our cautious approach to pad drilling.
Our current practice is to not turn wells in line where there is drilling or fracing of other wells on that same pad.
If we do not experience any unplanned disruptions we will realize higher sales volumes than our published forecast.
As a result of the higher volume forecast we are also increasing our operating cash flow estimate for 2011 to between 800 and $850 million.
As you know we raised approximately $225 million in after-tax proceeds from the sale of the Langley complex in the first quarter.
As a result of that sale as well as our growing operating cash flow we closed the quarter with approximately $139 million in cash on hand no short-term debt and virtually full availability under our $1.5-billion credit facility.
So we remain in a great liquidity position for 2011.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Dave Porges.
Thank you Phil.
We are off to a good start this year but we still have a lot of work ahead of us in order to realize our potential from a shareholder value perspective.
And we are determined to do so.
Phil spoke about some of the operational results from the first quarter.
And we are happy to answer additional questions you may have about our operations during Q&amp;A but we believe that this quarter’s results make it clear that we know how to execute.
So I’d like to direct my comments to some more strategic issues for ourselves and the industry.
During the past year or so we have talked quite a bit about addressing our greatest strategic challenge – applying capital to our best investment opportunities.
Last year I committed to you that we would live within cash flow plus proceeds from asset sales.
Our longer-term goal is to achieve organic volume metric and cash flow growth north of 30% per annum in production and associated cash flow growth in the midstream while living within operating cash flow – that is without proceeds from asset sales.
We estimate that we can achieve this goal by 2014 provided we outspend cash flow by about 300 to $400 million per year for the three years between now and then.
In total this means a little more than the $1 billion in external capital from 2011 through 2013.
Now I wanted to discuss why we are very confident we can meet this target without tapping the equity market.
First of course we funded the forecasted excess spending in 2011 by selling our Kentucky processing complex.
Most of the remainder of our funding need could be achieved by the sale of our Big Sandy pipeline plus utilizing the additional debt capacity that our rapid growth in earnings and cash flow are creating.
Without getting into too many specifics about particular assets I do wish to share what we think we have learned from our examination into the market value of all of our assets and investment opportunities and then comment on debt capacity.
The sale of the Kentucky processing complex and other of our efforts along these lines have sharpened our view that at least some of our midstream assets especially are more valuable to others than they are to us – at least when the value to us is measured by inferring what the equity market is giving us credit for in our stock price.
It seems this value gap is most pronounced for long-lived assets when most of the investment in the asset has already been made with contracts in place to increase the stability of the cash flows yet there remains attractive incremental investment opportunities that create visible cash flow growth prospects.
It is our observation that this combination of long-lived stable cash flows and visible growth prospects is of a greater value to others than the roughly eight times current year EBITDA valuation that appears to be assumed in our stock price.
Hence the shorthand that we have previously used assets that are worth more to others than to us.
While this value disconnect existed for the Kentucky facility and seems likely to exist for Big Sandy we believe that we own several other assets our CBM assets various gathering assets mature slow declining PDPs et cetera that quite possibly fit this description.
In contrast some of our most attractive organic investment opportunities such as both Upstream and Midstream Marcellus are ones about which our knowledge of our own asset base and confidence in our ability to execute against these opportunities translates into a value proposition that is at least as compelling us to as it seems to be to others.
Now back to debt capacity for a moment.
Operationally we have been exceeding our growth expectations.
This is increasing our projections for internally generated cash flow.
This in turn leads to additional debt capacity.
The asset sales when the funds are redeployed into our higher earning opportunities create incremental cash flow and debt capacity even above the current projections.
Incidentally by additional debt capacity I mean the ability to wear debt without comprising our credit rating.
So given our extensive list of potential asset sales combining proceeds from asset sales with our more optimistic cash flow generation potential is we believe more than enough to fund this billion dollars or so for the accelerated development of our reserves.
The other topic I wanted to touch on for a moment is the need to develop these opportunities in a safe and environmentally sound manner.
There has certainly been a lot of chatter about the pros and cons of shale gas development over the past few months.
Much of this is probably due to the relative newness of this activity in the northeastern portion of the U.S.
Our assessment of the situation is that the industry as a whole has been taking these issues seriously especially recently and that while the speed of the ramp-up has caused some issue for some of our peers the industry is generally very committed to improving and sharing best practices and working cooperatively with regulators to make sure that we achieve the promise of this great economic development opportunity.
You know that EQT was among the first companies to recycle most of its produced water and also one of the first to post frac fluid composition on our website.
We were also one of numerous companies that have participated in a project to post frac fluid composition on a well-by-well basis on a common website called FracFocus.org a project coordinated by the Ground Water Protection Council.
We continue to look for ways both internally and based on what we see other companies doing to improve our practices and our disclosure.
Separately we also realize that the long-term best interests of our communities is probably best served by heading towards fewer pads with more wells per pad so that we cut down on the overall percentage of land that is affected by our drilling operations and the associated roads pipes compressor stations et cetera.
Our industry has a tiny physical footprint as a personal of acreage drained once wells are in operation but the tinier the better from the perspective of our communities.
This multi-well pad approach will probably mean that we will typically have a relatively sizable inventory of wells that have been spud TDed or even completed but are not yet flowing.
But we think that this is the best long term approach to minimize our surface impact.
A variety of companies have short term issues in moving towards this approach because of lease related commitments and sometime this local pooling rules are less than helpful but we believe that there is a growing consensus that this smaller footprint approach is part of the long-term answer.
It is certainly possible that there will be some short-term economic costs from an environmentally sensitive approach.
Better and more meters more between CapEx and flowing production etcetera but these are typically modest costs.
Often they actual result in a better cost structure as in the case of pad drilling and will in any event lead to the best long term answer for all of us.
Finally it is our observation that Pennsylvania is probably moving towards some sort of impact fee that will compensate local communities for direct and some indirect cost associated with the burgeoning natural gas business in this state.
Provided if such a fee is set at a reasonable level it is dedicated to addressing actual impacts and perhaps as we would prefer funding some economic development initiatives to encourage local use of more natural gas and provided it is also accompanied by other regulations that clarify some of the rules governing the industry.
We believe that the consensus in the industry is to support such a compressive approach as being in the long term best interest of natural gas companies.
Therefore as is the case for many of our peers EQT will continue to present all of its economics as if such is a fee structure exists even though the actual results as you descend from this quarter’s numbers will obviously reflect the current reality.
In summary EQT remains committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by accelerating the monetization of our reserves but doing so in a safe and environmentally responsible manner.
We continue to be focused on doing what it takes to get the most economic value out of our assets and investment opportunities even when that means selling them.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and appreciate your continued support.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Pat.
Thank you Dave.
This concludes the comments portion of the call.
Andrew we’re ready for you open the lines for questions.
(Operator instructions) The first question comes from Neal Dingmann of SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good quarter.
Say could you give us a little more color on – you mentioned that you may not have seen enough results on those newer wells yet decide if you’re going to go with that design on all the wells maybe give us an idea of is it the length is it the way you’re fracking those maybe a little bit more color on why the wells are doing well.
We’ll let Steve handle that.
Neal regarding the specifics of the technique we’re still not ready to talk about the specifics a couple of things I’ll say though typically 5300 foot length of well with the new design is quite a bit more expensive probably about a million dollars more expensive.
` So while we are clearly seeing higher production rates initially it’s very important that we get a little longer production history so we can accurately calculate the return we are getting for that extra million dollars.
I can say we have about five wells so far that have more than 100 days of production with the new technique and they’re averaging a little more than 60% higher production over that time period than their offsets would be standard technique.
So results are very encouraging but it’s going to be closer to the end of the year before we talk in more detail about it.
Okay.
And a follow-up maybe on that a little bit.
Are you convinced I know one of your peers has talked about maybe going to a shorter lateral they think maybe you’re just trying to cut cost but you seem to imply that you think the lateral – the longer laterals are more well – you know well worth that maybe give us an idea of just your thought as far as the length versus the cost of these wells and what you’re seeing from these wells incrementally? Sure.
I think we are absolutely convinced that longer laterals are better at least up to 9 000 feet which is as far as we’ve drilled to-date.
We do plan a few laterals this year even longer than that but at least up to 9 000 feet we are absolutely convinced based on what we’ve done that longer is better from an economic standpoint.
We think what you may be hearing from others when they’re looking at their all-in economics is they’re factor in these lease obligations so the drilling obligations related to leases.
But if you factor in an assumption that you would lose leases because of failing to meet the drilling obligations and then you might say that you would assume that you would have to pay market rate to get those leases back and you factored those into the economics.
It is probably true that shorter laterals make more sense because what you want to do in that circumstance is touch as many of those leases as possible.
Remembering that these initial lease terms that the norm has been a five-year lease term and some folks did especially ones who moved to the Marcellus earlier than us would be nearing the end of some of those initial terms.
So from an all-in economics perspective for those companies it probably does in fact make the most sense until they’re – you know until they’ve got the volumes flowing and they’ve honored the obligations and then they’ll move into whatever seems to be most economic at that point.
And it may also be the different parts of the state have different – there are slightly different geologies in different parts of the state.
Sure.
With your positive cash position are you out there adding any leases are you out there top leasing to your area some bolt-ons etcetera? We have had a relatively modest leasing effort in the recent past.
I’ll probably leave it at that.
Frankly we’ve been waiting for economic circumstances to have caused the lease bonuses to have dropped though I have to acknowledge that doesn’t really seem to have happened very much.
Got it.
And last question if I could.
Just as production ramps up will you continue to add the hedges on the out years or what are your thoughts with the hedging? Yes we will.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning guys.
I think you all mentioned that it looks like Marcellus well costs have moved up to around $6 million and I think your prior estimated current data model is around 5.3 million.
When you look at your 2011 CapEx is there going to be – are you going to be spending more than you had planned previously or is there sort of a mix shift activity that will offset some of that? All of the – all of the numbers we’ve given you on volume guidance Scott are consistent with staying at that CapEx level.
Now look we’ve talked about asset sales before because part – realistically part of the grand plan is to monetize some other assets and ramp up and eventually as a result ramp up the development pace and in that circumstance absolutely you would see over some period of time capital going up but we’re very conscious of the concern frankly that a number of investors have that we are not spending money before we have it.
Okay.
So just so I understand you’re not – even though your well customer higher you’ve not made a change to your 2011...
Oh it’s the total number of wells actually has declined a bit as a result but there is also longer laterals.
Okay.
And that when you amount of wells that declined you specifically talk about Marcellus wells? Yes.
Okay.
And then...
One of the reasons we’ve tended to focus more on feet of pay and frac stages and things like that as opposed to the well count itself.
Okay.
No that makes sense.
And then as you look and it sounds like you’re doing a little bit more stepping out in some of your Marcellus areas and you’re seeing – it seems to be pretty good results and you recently said you are drilling a well in Tyoga how much just in general terms of your activity is going to be in the areas of like Tyoga where it’s a little bit of a stretch from where you’ve operated previously.
I’ll let – I think Steve is the best one of us to answer that one.
I think probably 15% of our wells this year would probably fit that category although while Tyoga is probably the – obviously the furthest we’ve gone afield from most of our activity has been – it’s getting close to where lots of our competitors have drilled a lot of wells so we have a high level of confidence in Tyoga and now that we’re drilling up there I think we have a pretty good spread across our acreage position with test wells of some sort.
So our knowledge and confidence level in our acreage just continues to improve.
Okay.
Okay.
Thanks.
And one last question.
You mentioned opportunity to monetize a lot of different assets and you made a comment relative to below the pine PDPs are you considering something like a VPP or would you not try something like its lack of better term that exotic? I don’t know that we would go with a VTP proper but I love – Phil and his group have been looking at what’s out there and I’m happy to let him share any observations he’s got about what we’ve seen in the marketplace.
We’ve seen there are various factors out there with overriding royalty interests and VTP there is another structure that’s out there.
I think my simple answer is we’re looking at all of that and comparing the cost of capital to some of our other alternatives to see which of those structures make the most sense for EQT.
Okay.
And when do you think we could get some significant news flow on some things you’re actually going to going forward into doing? Honestly I would expect that every couple of quarters you’ll be hearing something.
Great.
Thanks guys.
And I recognize when I say that that the first quarter you already heard something which we announced and also closed on the Langly thing and we would certainly expect that you’ll be hearing more very specific stuff in 2011 and then you’ll hear specific stuff in 2012.
I mean that’s absolutely the goal.
All right.
I appreciate it thanks.
The question comes from Michael Hall with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Congrats on solid results.
Just curious as I look at your current production guidance what sort of 2011 Marcellus exit rate is embedded within that? I believe we actually provided some of that.
So Pat why don’t you – We’re 280 million projected at year-end Michael.
Okay thanks.
And then as you look at the cost structure solid cost structure improvement quarter-on-quarter at the production level.
How sustainable particularly like on the LOE front is that? Is there anything in that that would be more one-time in nature or should we think about that as a fair run rate? I think it is a fair run rate.
The efficiencies that we gain in the Marcellus from the high production rates the multiple wells per pad as we do more and more Marcellus that should only support those low LOE unit costs that we see.
Now obviously the one exception is on production taxes.
And I think Phil spoke to that.
But you’d probably have to look at 2010 or 2009 as a better normalized rate if you assume that there is some form of compact fee that eventually comes to Pennsylvania.
And Randy is the best one to talk about it if you want to hit cost structure on the Midstream side.
Sure.
Yeah.
Well Michael with respect to that again when you work with the more pads per well and the longer lateral the efficiency gains associated with the Midstream are also significant and you can see that in the results.
And essentially less miles of pipe or more volume per mile of pipe capacity is what we achieve in Marcellus.
I mean it’s actually with the longer laterals and more pads.
And also a factor in the environmental footprint that Dave had mentioned earlier.
So those efficiency gains do translate in the Midstream cost reductions as well.
Okay great.
And then as it relates to the future monetizations or potential monetizations how does the storage and marketing business fit into that thinking? You’ve seen some pretty juicy multiples on storage assets recently.
Is it fair to say that that’s also being considered? You know Randy I’ll let you answer that one too.
Well I think there’s still – we look at everything in terms of the value proposition and what’s best to create shareholder value.
Obviously storage going forward the spreads have been narrowing but our judgment is that that’s a – it’s a key part of the growth in Marcellus and in this basin creating demand and a need for storage.
So we certainly would look at that but we see that as an integral asset as well as we continue to grow our volumes going forward.
So if you know people who’ll call in on that one what we’re telling folks who call on that because I think we’ve now made it clear enough that we are open to just about anything that we actually do to get a fair number of inquiries.
And it’s this changing dynamic in the Marcellus which gives us some pause on storage.
We’re going to be moving away from long line pipes to bring gas into this region.
It’s going to be more local production.
And what’s going to be the role of storage is going to be a question.
And when I say that I recognize that it is always possible though to contract for storage even if one doesn’t own it.
It’s just that that’s an asset where the value is a little bit – it’s a little bit less clear whether the changes in dynamics in the market are going to – what effect they’re going to have on the value of the assets compared to what’s going on in some of the other areas of the midstream further south of the Marcellus.
Okay.
That’s helpful color.
Appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
But everything we’ve got here in case you are talking to friends and stuff there’s a price for everything so don’t be shy.
The next question comes from Becca Followill of US Capital Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Two quick ones.
I think the Greene County well that you talked about last quarter was completed using the new frac geometry and that had a 30 day flow rate of 23 million a day.
Can you tell us what that well is doing now after – what is it how many days? I’ll be honest Becca I don’t have that data with me.
I can’t tell you.
Call Pat later maybe.
Okay.
I’ll do that.
And then just to clarify you guys had talked before about a 20% growth rate longer term living within your means now upping CapEx by 3 to 400 million over the next few year and picking up by 30%.
If we see some assets over the next three months would you go ahead and start upping CapEx spending for 2011 given that you’re already above that 30% level? Yes but the practical reality given that most of the money for the Marcellus at least is spent on fracing would be even if we were making a commitment most of that would – or a big chunk of any increased commitment that we would have would under the scenario you described would probably still show up in 2012 and with the volume showing up in 2012 and then out years.
So the short answer is yes but I wanted to make sure you had a better feel.
But with the pad drilling we do have longer lags on when the money actually gets spent versus committed.
Yeah I’ve got that Phil.
I just wanted to make sure that you guys would put that money to work pretty quickly.
You wouldn’t say I am going to save that for the next year I am going to go ahead and start...
And honestly the reason for that – at one point I was thinking we would that it would be a rainy day fund or something like that and frankly now based on more of the work that we’ve done in the asset market our view would be no that would come from the next you know if we wanted that that would be the next asset sale.
Great.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Rhett Bruno of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Hello.
Good morning.
Can you give us an update in the waiting on completion backlog in Doddridge County and where you are now production-wise relative to the remaining capacity and if there was any surprises from the wells that you would have brought on late in Q4 or Q1? Yes great question.
Some of them were asked.
We have had an email match – we have had a fairly significant backlog in Doddridge Country primarily because we’ve been drilling some pretty large multi-well pads and as Dave said previously we take a fairly conservative approach to not having simultaneous operations on the pad.
So we’ve had a backlog build up here recently now we’ve begun to work that down.
And just this week we started turning in line a 7-well pad in Doddridge County six of those wells are – have been in line for 24 hours or more as I speak.
I can tell you the average 24-hour rate from those six wells is 9.2 million cubic feet a day.
These were relatively short lateral wells due to the nature of the lease the average lateral length was 2 970 feet and we had average of just under 11 stages per well.
So the total up all is IP it’s a little over 55 million a day total.
You want to talk to the capacity.
Sure.
I mean in (inaudible) Steve with the excellent results we’ve positioned ourselves to stay out in front and we positioned to have 70 million a day out of the West Virginia and we are – one of the positive aspects of that is at a higher BTU gas and we have JT skids there to extract and to meet the pipeline quality.
Going forward and the previously announced agreement with MarkWest on the processing facility is in the next year is when we’ll be able to expand additional capacity over and above the 70 million a day.
Okay.
Great thanks.
The next question comes from Josh Silverstein of Enerecap Partners.
Please go ahead.
Enerecap Partners – excuse me.
Hey good morning guys.
Just following up on the midstream and takeaway issues.
Could you just kind of walk through the planning stages of how you guys are looking at developing the Marcellus capacity over the next few years with significant growth there how you’re trying to kind of stay ahead of that since it seems like most of the bigger producers are starting to bump against their current capacities and are having to expand faster than they probably thought they would have to? First Randy is going to answer that.
But we have become one of the bigger producers.
I think that the – missed some but we have actually become one of the bigger producers on the Marcellus but that said – No absolutely.
And you’re right we work of course Steve and I and the two teams that work hand in glove to ensure that the development plan and the midstream plans are working together and they’ve done an excellent job and we’ve been focused in in a couple of primary areas right our Greene County and our Doddridge area and we’ve been able to build out the additional capacity in those areas.
One of the benefits of the Marcellus just so you are aware is the higher pressure wells and so we do take advantage of some of those higher pressures so as we stage in the larger diameter pipe the longer lead items such as compression that we can stage in as the wells are brought in line and so that’s how we look at it is that we put the Bates infrastructure in and then we bring in the compression as the wells come on.
With respect to our Equitrans asset as we previously announced in line we turned on line in excess of a hundred million a day of capacity this year we have an additional 400 million a day that we are through the certificate process that will be coming on in 2012.
And again we’ve at EQT in terms of the commercial we’ve always been proactive on the downstream capacity commitments on the interstate pipelines.
We have a large position on Columbian transmission to move our HERON gas.
We’ve been – we have a contract as you’re aware of with the Tennessee gas pipeline for 350 million a day that moves our product even further downstream into a northeastern market.
And also with segmentation provides the flexibility to move an additional 300 into the south market.
So again that’s how we look at it we work closely together.
We built out the infrastructure and we have – I think an excellent track record of being out in front and doing just that.
Got you.
And then you know just looking at the frac inflation cost or I guess the well inflation costs I was curious if this new frac geometry is a way to reduce some of that inflation or even lower some of well costs? No in fact just the opposite.
The revise design would raise our per well cost and per stage cost.
However what we’re waiting to see is if that incremental investment is justified by the higher production and reserve.
So we’re going to wait until later in the year before we start drawing conclusions on that but – so the goal is per unit costs going down but per well or per stage costs would certainly go up.
Gotcha.
And then lastly for me just want to see if there’s any update on drilling into the other formation for the Utica Upper Devonian or other stacks? Well we are certainly looking at those and watching what our competitors are doing in those areas.
I think the Upper Devonian we have drilled one well in the Upper Devonian several months ago in West Virginia.
And we will drill at least one more this year in Southwestern Pennsylvania.
Our plans for the Utica right now are to sit tight and watch what our competitors are doing and if that ends up being the next big thing we’ll be right there with them.
As you know we pride ourselves on being innovate in a lot of areas but we have thought that it is more prudent for us for the time being to focus on getting the most of our Marcellus position.
And actually for that matter Huron as well.
But we do pay close attention to what the other companies in the area are doing in the Upper Devonian and the Utica.
And eventually we’ll hopefully figure out what works and we’ll jump right in.
Good.
Thanks guys.
The next question comes from John Abbott of Pritchard Capital.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hey this is Ray Deacon.
I was wondering Steve if you were to correlate the 9.2 million a day IP rate 24 hours to your experience in Green what would that kind of correlate to like a 5 or 6 7 BCF well or–? Well I think I mean I just do the simple math for you if you double the lateral length from those from our experience we would double the initial rate.
So you’d be looking at a 5300-foot lateral well with 18 million a day IP if you just double those averages.
And I think – I’m not going to quoting the UR but you can probably go back to numbers we’ve published before and see what an 18 million a day IP would – might look like.
Got it.
Great.
And why did you have to drill the shorter laterals in West Virginia.
I thought you had a pretty key blocky acreage position in...
Well we do generally but we have a lot of leases and a lot of acreage in certain areas the short laterals just fit better than longer ones.
And that was the case on this lease.
So we can drill economic wells with extremely short laterals down well below 2 000 feet per well and we’re still generating excellent returns.
So when we have to drill short we will.
Obviously when we can drill longer that is our strong preference.
Got it.
And did the 9.2 million a day that would have had a pretty big liquids component I think? Well its – the BTU content is about twelve fifty in that area.
Okay.
Got it.
But you are aware that our processing – the processing plant that we’ve -where we’ve contracted for capacity that MarkWest facility is not going to be ready until next year.
Got it.
Right now the only way to get any liquids out actually get liquidities out is to use these little J.T.
skids.
And what kind of extraction do you actually get when you’re using those? Per Mcf if you’re getting in the range of between 0.
5 and a gallon of 1 – 0.5 and 1 gallons.
So this is what you would expect from a plant...
A Cryo about 2.5 gallons and so that’s – and then we – we’re essentially meeting the specs and we blend the gas and we’re able to move that way.
So overly not getting much in the way of – we’re getting the benefits from liquids and that you’re getting more BTU per unit volume but we’re not getting the pick-up in the premium – really much of a pick-up for a premium in per BTU value those liquids until that plant is...
When that plant does come on line where do you think the 7% liquids contribution could go to I guess? Yeah so I’m not sure that it goes – in that area of course it’d be higher than 7% because that was an average number across all of our properties but the issue if you’re getting it about the ethane it’s more of a question of when do the ethane markets start delivering better value per BTU than methane.
And when we follow the reports of folks who are coming up over other ways to move the ethane it doesn’t strike us that they’re getting any better than ethane prices.
So the real issue is making sure that you – you’re moving ethane so that you can get the gas to pipeline quality not really to get a pick-up in per BTU pricing.
Does that – hope I said that in a way that my – that it’s clear.
Great.
No that makes sense.
I mean obviously it would be great if we had robust ethane markets here and a bunch of us in the industry are looking for those types of longer term opportunities to see if we can get those but right now we’re really just talking about folks making sure they can move the ethane so that they can so the gas can lock.
Got it.
And I guess Steve just one quick follow-up.
I’ve had a couple of people tell me the completion costs were up sort of like 10% sequentially in the Marcellus and I was just wondering how shielded are you from furthering increases with the contracts you have in place? Well generally speaking the contracts we have are for frac services are basically fixed plus variable so a lot of the consumables we use are variable and we have seen – I think on average about a 7% increase in those over the – sequentially from the prior quarter.
Much of the rest is fixed but they can still vary based on a few indices.
So as inflation picks up we may – we are subject to some continued costs increase but I think we’re pretty well mitigated from the supply/demand pressures that we’ve seen in the past.
So when there’s no a lot of activity and operators are willing to pay whatever it takes to get a frac crew and prices shoot up we’re insulated from that at least through the end of the year.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is a follow-up from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thanks guys.
Hey real quickly could you remind me what – I guess in the last quarter what was the EBITDA from the Big Sandy system was? Can’t remember exactly what we said but it’s in the $25 million range.
(Inaudible).
25 to 28 I think.
Yeah.
I was...
Annually.
Yeah.
Annual.
So in theory we’re talking about something like 10 or so multiple on that so you’re probably looking at something close to nearing $300 million monetize that? Does that sound reason? Or so.
Well I wouldn’t call us with an offer for 300.
Understood.
Appreciate it.
Thanks.
The next question is a follow up from Michael Hall with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for the follow-up.
Just quickly curious on the kind of longer range growth you talked about trying to get to 30%-plus annual growth and in the next couple of years like you said that requires some outspend.
Does that suggest then that’s the kind of level of growth you would expect in the next couple of years or is that – may be gear up to get to that level? Obviously this year you’re going to be above 30% but just kind of get a feel for 2012.
I’m sorry could you – I’m not sure if I followed all – your...
So you said you’re trying to get a long-range CAGR of 38% per year or better.
Yes.
In terms of production growth and that’s going to require some outspending.
I’m just trying to understand does the initial couple of year period the 2012 to 2013 period is that lower than 30%? No no no.
no I’m sorry.
No I wouldn’t.
We wouldn’t see that being lowered.
As a matter of fact the way we kind of seen that two is that we’d be talking about a more of a several year CAGR even though we’re only talking about outspending for three years so it kind of gets the machine going.
And in fact by the end of that period is when you probably start dropping down a little bit.
When you’re – obviously it is difficult to grow any business at 30% – any capital instance of business at 30% while living within cash flow indefinitely so we actually rely on the jump start kind of front end load a little bit of that.
Okay.
I didn’t know if you needed some sort of jump start and spend to get the growth later but...
I actually think about this a lot.
That is happening now.
And we’re already benefiting from some of that lag because we have put money in – obviously we have outspent our cash flow for the last couple of years.
Right right.
So we’re actually getting – we actually are benefiting from the fact that that occurred over the last year or two currently.
And that would – we would anticipate that continuing but it does mean that that’s – that’s why we do feel some urgency to make sure we keep that going.
Okay.
That’s super helpful.
Thanks.
The next question comes from Rhett Bruno of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Just one quick follow-up on this resized sort of capital outlook you guys are talking about.
Is the midstream spend does that change? Could you give us some idea on the run rate maybe the next two or three years? No I think the – probably the ratio that we spend on midstream to total remains pretty similar to what it is in 2011.
Obviously that’s a lot lower than what it had been.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
Thanks.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Patrick Kane for any closing remarks.
Thank you Andrew.
That does conclude today’s call.
The call will be replayed for a seven-day period beginning approximately 1:30 PM Eastern Time today.
The phone number for the replay is 412-317-0088.
The confirmation code for the replay is 447030 and it’s also available on our website for seven days.
Thank you everyone for participating.
This concludes the EQT Corporation first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the EQT Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note that this event is being recorded.
And now I would like to turn the conference over to Patrick Kane.
Mr.
Kane please go ahead.
Thanks Keith and good morning everyone.
Thank you for participating in EQT Corporation’s second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream Distribution and Commercial and Steve Schlotterbeck Senior Vice President and President of E&amp;P.
In just a moment Phil will summarize our operational and financial results for the second quarter which we released this morning.
Then Dave will provide an update on our development programs and strategic operational matters.
Following Dave’s remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will all be available to answer your questions.
But first I’d like to remind you that today’s call may contain forward-looking statements related to the future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today’s press release and under Risk Factors in the company’s Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2010 that was filed with the SEC as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are also filed with the SEC and available on our website.
Today’s call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the morning’s press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced second quarter 2011 earnings of $0.58 per diluted share 190% increase over EPS in the second quarter of 2010.
Three items cumulatively added $17.7 million to our pre-tax income or about $0.07 per share to EPS.
The purchase of the outstanding interest in ANPI an off balance sheet structure set up to fund the acquisition from Statoil in 2000 resulted in a book gain.
As we consider potentially more complex financing alternatives to fund our significant growth opportunities we have looked for ways to clean up and simplify our already relatively simple structure and the buyback of ANPI is an example of that.
There was also an adjustment for non-income tax matters and a gain on the sale of some available for sale securities.
Even after adjusting for those three items the EPS in the second quarter of 2011 increased 2.5 times over the second quarter of 2010.
Operating cash flow which for the most part excludes the impact of the three items I just discussed increased by 66% to $189 million for the quarter.
The increase in cash flow comes as a result of another outstanding operational quarter across all three of EQT’s business units including record production and midstream volumes and continued low operating – unit operating costs which were already among the best in the industry as well as solid operating income at Equitable Gas.
The operating results in this quarter are fairly straightforward and I will start with EQT production where sales volumes continue to grow at a record pace.
The organic growth rate in the recently completed quarter you saw was 43% over the first quarter of 2010 even excluding 1.4 Bcfe of volumes from the ANPI transaction.
That growth rate was driven by sales from our Marcellus shale play which contributed approximately 39% of the volumes in the quarter up from only 16% in the quarter a year ago.
Gas prices were also higher.
The realized price at EQT Production was $4.16 per Mcfe compared to $3.66 last year.
At the corporate level EQT received $5.60 per Mcfe compared to $5.33 last year.
NYMEX gas prices-basis and liquids revenues were all higher in the quarter while the impact from hedges was consequently somewhat lower.
Produced liquids mainly from our liquids-rich Huron and West Virginia Marcellus plays accounted for 7% of the volumes and about 20% of the un-hedged revenues in the quarter.
As a reminder we do not include ethane in this calculation as it is currently sold mostly as methane.
If we included ethane the percentage of liquids produced would approximately double.
Total operating expenses at EQT Production were higher quarter-over-quarter as a result of higher DD&amp;A LOE and production taxes.
However unit cash operating costs were significantly lower consistent with the volume growth.
Per unit LOE excluding production taxes was down by 15% to $0.22 per Mcf equivalent.
That decrease was a result of producing higher volumes while maintaining a cost structure that is again already among the best in the industry.
Production taxes were also lower on a unit basis at $0.20 per Mcfe in the current quarter versus about $0.25 per Mcfe last year this time due to an increasing amount of production sales volumes from Pennsylvania.
And you remember that Pennsylvania does not currently impose production taxes and an increasing percentage of our growth came from the Marcellus play in Pennsylvania.
Moving on to the Midstream results in the second quarter.
Operating income here was up 25% consistent with the growth of gathered volumes and increased capacity-based transmission charges.
Gathering net revenues increased by a little over $10 million as gathering volumes increased by 32% somewhat offset by the average gathering rate which declined by 9% due to the increase in Marcellus gathered volumes.
Last quarter we mentioned that the Midstream Group now charges EQT Production $0.66 per Mcf for Marcellus gathering and $1.25 per Mcf for gathering everywhere else.
As Marcellus production continues to grow as a percentage of our total production mix the average gathering rate paid by EQT Production will continue to decline.
At the same time the increase in Marcellus volumes where we experienced significant Midstream economies of scale drove a 33% decrease in Midstream’s unit gathering and transmission costs.
So EQT Midstream margins will continue to be strong as the per unit operating expenses from Marcellus production is lower than our current average.
Transmission net revenues also increased by 36% driven by the additional capacity turned online in the fourth quarter 2010.
Storage marketing and other net operating income was down about $12 million in the second quarter.
These results include a $4.1 million reduction in processing fees as we did not own the Langley processing complex during the second quarter of 2011 while we owned it for the full quarter in the second quarter of 2010.
As has been mentioned before the storage and marketing part of the Midstream business relies on natural gas price volatility and seasonal spreads in the forward curve and those have continued to deteriorate.
Given current market conditions and the sale of the Langely plant we now estimate that full year 2011 net revenues in storage marketing and other will total approximately $50 million.
The good news is that even with the asset sales and deteriorating seasonal spreads our Midstream operating continues to grow significantly.
Net operating expenses at Midstream were flat quarter-over-quarter excluding the impact of the processing complex and the impact of the previously mentioned tax adjustments.
As I mentioned per unit gathering expense was down more than 30% as a result of the higher Marcellus throughput while maintaining our cost structure at Midstream.
A moment on the Big Sandy pipeline sale.
You would have seen during the second quarter we announced the sale of our regulated Big Sandy pipeline.
The sale closed on July 1 so there was no financial impact on second quarter results.
We expect to record a gain of approximately $175 million in the third quarter.
This sale is expected to reduce second half EBITDA by about $14 million and reduce our annualized transmission EBITDA run rate to approximately $15 million per year.
We plan to invest $230 million over two years to add 560 million cubic feet per day of capacity to our Marcellus transmission system Equitrans.
As a result of those investments we expect transmission operating income to be about $70 million in 2012 and about $100 million in 2013.
Beyond that when needed we can expand capacity by another 570 million cubic feet per day for an incremental investment of approximately $50 million which could ultimately add an additional $30 million to $50 million of EBITDA.
The Big Sandy sale will impact our per unit revenue realization.
So to help you calibrate your models we forecast transportation and processing revenue to EQT Midstream to go down by $0.14 per Mcf while third-party gathering processing and transportation will increase by $0.14 per Mcf for the second half of 2011.
We also expect the average gathering rate charged to EQT Production to be approximately $1.12 per Mcf for the second half of 2011 and between $1 and $1.05 in 2012 and then between $0.90 and $0.95 in 2013.
Just a quick note on guidance today we increased our production sales forecast for the full-year 2011 to between 190 Bcf and 195 Bcf equivalent or approximately 43% higher than in 2010.
We expect that 2012 volume will exceed 250 Bcf equivalent.
We will have more clarity on the 2012 guidance after we establish our capital budget in December.
As a result of the higher volume forecast we are increasing our operating cash flow estimates for 2011 to approximately $850 million.
As you know we have raised approximately $620 million in pre-tax proceeds from the sales of Langley and Big Sandy.
As a result of these sales as well as our growing operating cash flow we closed the quarter with approximately $79 million in cash on hand and full availability under our $1.5 billion credit facility so we remain in a great liquidity position.
And with that I will turn the call over to David Porges.
Thanks Phil.
This was yet another strong operating quarter as we continue our efforts to maximize shareholder value creation from our core strategic assets.
The two topics to which I’d like to devote most of my time this morning are the positioning of our Midstream business within the strategic framework of the company and separately some comments on legislative and regulatory issues in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania where we’ve just completed work on the Governor’s Marcellus Shale Advisory Commission.
First to set the stage for my Midstream thoughts.
During the past year or so we have talked quite a bit about addressing our greatest strategic challenge applying capital to our best investment opportunities.
Last year we committed that we would live within cash flow plus proceeds from asset sales.
Last quarter we communicated a longer-term goal to achieve organic volumetric and cash for growth north of 30% per annum in production and associated cash flow growth in the Midstream while living within operating cash flow that is without proceeds from asset sales.
The estimates that we can achieve this goal by 2014 was predicated on the assumption that we can outspend cash flow by about $300 million to $400 million per year for the three years between now and then or a little more than $1 billion in external capital from 2011 through 2013 without tapping the equity market.
We have made significant progress towards making that assumption a reality.
First of course we sold the Kentucky processing complex in a transaction that was announced and closed in the first quarter this year.
Next we sold the Big Sandy pipeline in a transaction that was announced in the second quarter and closed at the very beginning of the third quarter.
Those two transactions raised about $600 million.
For the remainder we believe that we can utilize the additional debt capacity that our rapid growth in earnings and cash flow are creating.
As we mentioned last quarter we continue to consider additional assets sales which could provide additional capital to reinvest into Marcellus development.
Not only did these Midstream asset sales fill our funding gap they also established a marker as to the value of our remaining Midstream assets and organic growth opportunities.
These two assets were sold at about 13 to 14 times operating cash flow.
And yes we did note that both buyers accessed lower cost capital from the MLP market.
As we look at our retained Marcellus Midstream assets we project operating cash flow growth of nearly 20% per year assuming only EQT production volumes and an ROTC in the mid teens making EQT one of the faster growing and more profitable midstream companies in the country.
This growth and market comps indicate a valuation for our Midstream business in excess of $4 billion.
Of course an additional value of this business is that our control of the location capacity and pace of the Marcellus midstream build out increases our comfort that we can transport EQT’s produced gas from the wellhead to the markets which increases our confidence that EQT Production will achieve its growth objectives.
In our 2011 CapEx forecast we included $90 million for gathering pipes and compression to add 170 million cubic feet per day of Pennsylvania Marcellus gathering capacity.
But our folks do more than that in working to support our growth and equity production.
Most of the specific activities are not headline material but they are invaluable they include having larger more sophisticated meters.
Adding interconnects to interstate systems adding interconnects between our own systems to route gas around bottlenecks leveraging the high-pressure of the Marcellus production to route around compressor stations that are already at capacity and blending wet high-moisture gas with dry gas to meet interstate pipeline moisture specs.
This may be more detail than you need but the point is that these activities are projected to increase the capacity of our existing Pennsylvania Marcellus gathering system by nearly 140 million cubic feet per day by the end of 2011 at a cost of $6 million.
We have not calculated the IRR of that $6 million investment but it clearly exceeds our hurdle rates.
Our culture encourages innovation and I’m proud of this remarkable achievement.
These specifics support our view that our Midstream business is very valuable but we realized that some strategic decisions need to be made regarding the amount of investment that should be made in that business prospectively.
One option is to continue with the current model where we build our needed midstream system and occasionally sell off some of the seasoned assets most likely to MLPs.
This is one way to access the value of low MLP costs of capital.
A second option is to basically outsource our midstream.
Our concern with that approach in addition to the opportunity cost of foregoing organic growth prospects is the loss of control that we value immensely especially during this period of rapid build out.
But we do recognize that most E&amp;P companies successfully utilize this model.
A third option is to create our own MLP.
Given our forecasted growth profile this option could make sense even if the only customer is EQT Production but it probably becomes necessary due to capital requirements if we decide to pursue a third-party business model.
We realize that there is significant interests from our investors in learning which option we will choose.
At this point given our current level of study of this issue the only interim conclusion we’ve reached is that pursuing a third-party growth model on our own or with a partner probably means an MLP while we are unlikely to go that route if we limit our focus to moving Equity Production.
We appreciate your patience and we’ll keep you informed as we make decisions affecting our future.
From my perspective this is a high-class problem choosing among several viable alternatives that all create shareholder value.
Shifting gears let’s spend a moment discussing the status of regulatory and legislative issues in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
The Marcellus Shale Advisory Commission on which I served as a member forwarded its report to Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett on July 22.
The 30-member commission ably chaired by Lieutenant Governor Cawley comprised state regulators producers local government representatives and environmental organizations.
It made 96 recommendations related to Marcellus development in Pennsylvania including enactment of an impact fee with revenues returned to localities affected by development enactment of a pooling statute adoption of legislation and regulations to ensure environmentally responsible development and economic-development initiatives such as encouraging the adoption of natural gas as a fuel for buses.
EQT has long believed that each industry needs an appropriate level of state regulation and each industry should pay for its own externalities.
We are heartened that the commission’s recommendations are aligned with those perspectives and that there was much more agreement among the various constituencies than disagreement.
This is an important first step in developing comprehensive legislation regulation and public policy that will promote safe and responsible development of the Marcellus shale and ensure that all Pennsylvanians have an opportunity to economically benefit from this abundant natural resource.
At EQT we are committed to the standard of safe and responsible development even without governmental mandates.
Along those lines we are taking steps to reduce the air emissions of our drilling processes.
Air quality has long been a particular problem in this region and the fact that diesel is the predominant fuel used to power drilling rig equipment in our industry does not help.
We are piloting the replacement of this diesel equipment with natural gas powered equipment.
Replacing this equipment has three primary drivers.
First of all the emissions of the natural gas powered equipment compared to the diesel equipment operating at present will achieve NOx and total hydrocarbon emission reductions of 46% and a reduction in particulate matter of 78%.
Second since natural gas is cheaper than diesel fuel we expect reductions on fuel cost of up to 50%.
And finally admittedly in a small way this change will increase the adoption of more natural gas powered equipment and contribute to advancing the new natural gas economy.
Another small step on this path was our opening last week of the first natural gas fueling station in the city of Pittsburgh that is open to both fleet vehicles and to the public at large.
This is part of a small but growing network of such stations in this region built by various companies to facilitate the conversion of fleets to nat gas.
The largest customer at our station is Equitable Gas Company which has recently converted dozens of vehicles to CNG.
Most of the other stations being built around here are similarly anchored by the station’s sponsors own fleet but we all work cooperatively and trust that this bootstrapping if you will leads to broader adoption of natural gas as a vehicle fuel.
My concluding remark today intended as a segue into Q&amp;A pertains to production.
We completed our first well using the new frac geometry that we have been discussing in October 2010.
Since then we have turned in line 68 Marcellus wells of which 13 were completed using that new frac geometry.
We expect to have a total of 27 of the new design wells online by year-end.
We continue to see greater than 60% higher IPs per foot of treated lateral with this new design compared to offsetting wells and are getting more confident that we will achieve higher EURs though the wells are costing more than we previously estimated about $1.6 million more for a well with 5 300 feet of completed lateral.
We want to gather more production data before making this design our standard but hope to decide by the end of the year so we can factor the decision into our 2012 capital budget.
In fact we are now far enough along in this process that we have decided to tweak our normal earnings call Q&amp;A format.
I’m going to ask the first question.
Pat you can give the instructions to others in a moment.
My question goes to Steve.
Steve can you please explain some of the specifics of this new completions design.
Sure Dave.
As you know last fall we began testing a new frac design which we’d hoped would result in both accelerated production and increased reserve recovery from our horizontal Marcellus wells.
We call this design our 30-foot cluster spacing test and the design basically involves using 150 foot frac stages with 30 feet between perforation clusters versus our standard design of 300 foot per stage – 300 feet per stage with 60 feet between perf clusters.
With this design we pump the same amount of water and sand per foot as we do in the standard design but we achieved double the injection rate per foot versus the standard.
The theory behind this design is to focus the hydraulic energy into a smaller volume of rock thereby creating a more dense induced fracture network and increasing the recovery factor for that volume of rock.
Additionally we did expect to see accelerated production in addition to the increased recovery.
As we noted on the last earnings call and Dave just mentioned we are seeing around 60% higher early time production rates from wells that used the 30-foot cluster spacing design.
But it will take a significant amount of time to accurately quantify the level of increased reserve recovery we are seeing.
That is still true and we don’t expect to be discussing levels of recovery or projected economics until the end of this year at the earliest.
Today we’re posting two slide on our website which provide a little more detail.
The first is a schematic showing the stage and cluster spacing for our standard and 30 foot cluster test wells.
The second is a micro seismic survey we conducted on two parallel wells one with the standard frac design and one with the 30 foot cluster spacing.
This survey was designed so that we had a third listening well located directly between the two test wells which provided excellent data quality in the survey.
As you will see on the slide the well with the 30 foot clusters achieved similar frac half lengths and total stimulated volume but had more than three times more micro seismic events than the standard design.
While this is only circumstantial evidence we are encouraged that this supports the theory of creating a more dense fracture network.
Much additional analysis is required before drawing economic conclusions about this design but we continue to be encouraged by the results we have seen and will continue to provide additional details as we continue the test.
Okay thank you Steve.
Keith we’re ready to open the call for questions from our investors.
Thanks good morning everybody.
Congrats on a solid quarter.
Just curious I guess a little more clarity on the commentary around strategic decisions make sure I’m understanding it correctly.
I guess first am I hearing you right that option 2 then is kind of off the table? And then as a follow-up am I understanding also then that the MLP option option 3 in your mind only make sense if you decide to kind of further expand your activities in terms of sourcing – or serving rather third parties?  Not exactly.
Actually none of those alternatives are off the table.
The only thing that is off the table is routinely using our own capital to build out our Midstream business.
At some point the issue was only where does the external capital come from.
If at this point even though we haven’t reached final conclusions the bias is – that we’ve got now is if we decide that we want to have a more aggressive growth plan in Midstream we’re best off using – having the external capital come from an MLP either on our own or with a partner.
Whereas if we decide that we’re going to limit the Midstream to going more after Equity just supporting Equity production that external capital will come from more one-off transactions either selling assets the way we’ve been selling with Langley and Big Sandy or possibly taking on a partner.
But that we probably wouldn’t want to go down the road if that’s what we do of having the administrative issues associated with an MLP? One way or another the big picture is that we don’t really want to be devoting a lot of our – let’s call it C-Corp capital to – net to expanding the Midstream business.
One way or another it’s going to have to come from external capital.
Okay.
And I don’t mean equity of course I mean the MLP market or asset sales are in whole or in partnership?  Okay.
And in terms of creating – if you did go out of creating your own MLP and kind of raising capital in that way is it still possible or is it at all possible that at some point then you consider kind of spinning off those that part of the entity and at some point having a standalone upstream C-Corp?  Yes.
That’s actually another conclusion that we’ve reached I guess I just figured I’d get a question and now I have is that we have also concluded that having an MLP is not inconsistent with any of the structural alternatives that one might reasonably assume that we would look at.
And look we recognized that the issue for our company and for other of our peer companies is that the extent of our investment opportunity is greater than the – exceeds in dollars the amount of capital that we have available.
I mean we laid out a viable plan for a certain level of development but that doesn’t necessarily mean that that’s the optimal plan.
So we certainly recognize an issue we’re going to be dealing with is if we wanted to ramp up development more we need to move further down that road.
So basically though we have gotten ourselves comfort that whether we had an independent Midstream business or a Midstream business that’s associated with we stay as a certain C-Corp an MLP is really a better way to raise the money for the Midstream business.
So we don’t – and incidentally we further decided that I think we have gotten ourselves comfortable that if we ever did split the business that it would probably have been best to do the MLP first.
Okay.
Because we’ve looked at that sequencing issue too.
Okay.
And then I guess timing on your final decisions around this any?  Well the final decisions of course on all kinds of strategic issues get made by the board but the normal timeframe for us to really dig in to the strategy issues is about this time of year.
So it’s going to be during the course of the third quarter and – well I guess I’ll say through the remainder of the year we’re really going to be working through this particular issue in a big way.
Okay.
And then just on that new frac geometry just curious if it indeed is successful does it imply then that ultimately tighter spacing per well would also then be required to maximize recoveries or is that am I making the wrong assumption or conclusion on that?  I don’t think we’re ready to draw conclusions on that yet Michael.
It could imply that but we are not – we don’t have enough data yet to really draw conclusions.
Okay.
And then I guess final one from me housekeeping on the ANPI what did you pay for that? Sorry if I missed it.
We took on a debt liability.
Actually the best way to handle this it is sort of complicated and we’ll get into a lot of accounting journal entries.
Why don’t you call Pat and he can walk you through it.
But basically high level that was an off balance sheet financing we did when we bought Statoil.
It only had a few more years to run on it.
There was a lot of administrative burdens associated with it so we decided to bring it back on the balance sheet and simplify.
So the reserves and production came back on the balance sheet as well as some debt liabilities and a couple of other liabilities.
And the net effects are we told you production’s up about 8 BCF initially annually and that declines.
EPS is up only very very slightly less than $0.01 a quarter and cash flow is basically – operating cash flow is up a little but total cash flow’s sort of neutral because there is a debt service component that includes interest and debt repayment and like I say that’s probably more information than you want but that’s the high level story.
It’s really just a simplifying transaction.
Okay.
That is helpful.
Thanks.
I will follow up offline.
Good morning guys.
Good quarter.
Say either for Dave or Steve just wondering on the production guidance now that you have laid out sort of for the remainder of the year and a little bit obviously into next year.
Could you break that down a little bit as far as maybe more detail as far as number of Huron and Marcellus wells anticipated and then within those how many you anticipate I guess will use the new technology or technique?  Yes Neal.
We’re anticipating right around 100 Marcellus wells for the year and 120 Huron wells for the year.
And right now with the new design somewhere between 20 wells and 24 wells.
Okay.
And then either for Dave or Randy on the Midstream just kind of wondering – it looks like obviously Equitrans continues to add or the phases continue to go along I think as you had planned.
Maybe just remind me as far as kind of the next couple of phases or what benchmarks we should be looking at for the remainder of the year and then into next year on it.
You know I’ll let Randy handle that.
Yes.
I mean Neal as you know we put the first phase in at the beginning of this year for the 100 million a day and we are focused on adding 130 million a day in 2011 with a project in to the third quarter of 2012 an additional 430 million a day in the Equitrans phase.
Okay.
And then last question if I could.
Just wondering on sort of -- I guess two things I guess actually.
One on differentials.
Looked like you continue to be very positive there going into this quarter.
Wondering going forward if you think that those will remain about the same? And then just hedging are you comfortable now where you’re at or will you add a little bit more along the way.
Well on hedging we are going to continue to re-look at where we want to be.
I mean honestly given where our economics are we kind of like where the prices have been.
Since our development pace is dictated by cash flows what we’ve really tended to focus on is to see if we can get more stability around our future cash flows because that facilitates making the type of longer term drilling rig frac crew etc.
commitments that help us reduce those costs over time.
So no I wouldn’t necessarily say that we are done with our hedging.
Maybe – for 2011 it almost becomes just a commercial matter it’s not really hedging it’s what do you want to sell at.
But I wouldn’t say that we’re necessarily done at 2012.
I understand that we’ve added a fair amount since the last time we put out financial results and certainly with 2013 we’ve really only just begun to lie in some hedging.
We’re focused on cash flow stability so as prices move up that helps us with that cash flow stability that feeds in to our ability to accelerate the development of the reserves.
Yes great point.
And then last question Dave just one around M&amp;A.
You obviously have most of your production held so that’s not a big issue if there is more Marcellus and acreage in the region for sale given you are outspending cash flow will you continue to look for M&amp;A deals or do have enough acreage sorted at the time?  We are certainly interested in tactical acreage acquisitions.
I guess what I’d really – and the way I’d think of that is as we’ve mentioned before there is a fair amount of the acreage we have and it’s not unlike the situation of other companies but a fair amount of acreage that we have that doesn’t really permit the extended laterals that we would like to have.
Certainly doesn’t permit the multi-well pads with everything having extended laterals.
So to the extent that we can get other acreage around us lease other acreage that would allow us to go from either short laterals or fewer wells per pad up to more wells per pad extended laterals that’s attractive to us.
Now this Marcellus Shale Advisory Commission did recommend with both industry and environmentalists supporting it that we come up with a better pooling statute in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and that would of course help.
And actually a similar issue exists in West Virginia.
So some of the view that we have on leasing acreage also is going to be impacted by where the legislation heads in Pennsylvania and West Virginia on pooling.
So you anticipate you will in addition to M&amp;A would do more pooling as well Dave?  Yeah pooling is – well clearly that’s a more – that can be a simpler way to save some of the money upfront.
But we are looking at the tactical – at tactical leasing.
And we recognize incidentally that that means that we need to be more open to asset sales whether via MLP or straight sales than is necessary – than what we laid out in that kind of $1 billon over three-year timeframe.
I mean it would have to come from that we’re not going to be going to the equity markets for that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
It looks like you guys have been getting pretty efficient on turning the wells that were spud to the wells that are completed.
It looked like by the numbers you gave it was about 30% a year ago to 60% now.
Is that basically just a move to pad drilling or is there anything else that you guys have done to gain that efficiencies and where do you think that 60% could get to over the course of the next 12 months?  I don’t know that we really look at it that way but really what I think is happening is that we’re able to co-ordinate our Midstream and Production business a little bit more closely than other companies are because we control the Midstream.
And incidentally that said we do recognize that a variety of folks in the midstream business who chat with us about alternative approaches tell us that we could achieve that through partnerships or contractual arrangements but a close coordination between midstream and upstream is what helps us on that front I would say.
But I don’t know that we’d say we had a target.
We’re always going to have some wells that are -- I think we laid it out in the table in the press release.
There is always going to be gaps between the wells that have been permitted but not spud spud but not TDed TDed but not frac’d frac’d but not tilled.
There is always going to be stuff.
Right.
I was just curious if there was more sort of delays on frac crews there if you guys are looking to add dedicated frac crews because it seems like as soon as your rigs are moving off the pads one or two days later the wells are starting to get completed.
Actually that then is within production.
They have just done a good job and I think they’ll – I’m confident they will continue to do a good job coordinating between the rigs and the crews.
I mean we do tend to have longer-term commitments to both drilling rigs and frac crews so that they are more under our control.
We’re not going pad by pad.
Got you.
Then the average lateral length you said was about 5 300 feet.
I was curious how long you guys had tested and if you think you are still moving towards even further if you’re going out towards 6 000 feet or 7000 feet as kind of an average?  As far as -- the longest laterals we’ve drilled so far are right around 9 000 feet.
We are trying to permit a well as long as 12 000 feet.
I don’t think that would likely be drilled until early next year at this point.
We do our philosophy is to drill the longest lateral we can.
As Dave mentioned earlier we are frequently limited by the lease geometry we’re faced with.
So -- and especially until there’s some better pooling regulations that’s kind of what limits our averages right now.
So we do expect the average to continue to go up.
I don’t think we’d expect a quick jump up to the 6 000 foot range in the short-term but they will continue to increase.
That reminds me.
One comment I should have made to an earlier question about acreage is we are much more actively involved in discussions about acreage swaps with other producers than historically we have been.
So that of course is another way that we could head towards optimal.
I don’t know that we have a view on what optimal length is right now other than a view that generally speaking the land situation prevents us from getting to the optimal length on as many of the well locations as we’d like.
But that’s another tool in the tool kit.
It doesn’t just have to be pooling or lease acquisitions.
It can be acreage swaps as well.
Got you.
Then lastly for me on the new frac design I know you guys will be talking more about it later on this year.
But I was curious if the kind of the implied thought that you would be looking to keep a similar well count kind of year-over-year but your production rate could grow 30% to 40% just based on putting that new design in or would you still grow the total well count next year and then going forward?  Well optimal – our assessment of optimal is above the type of growth rates that we’ve talked about before.
But the capital will come from internally generated cash flow or from sales of assets or opportunity.
So really it’s going to start with how much capital that we have available and go from there.
And again we do recognize it’s been pointed out by a variety of investors so that EQT along with our peers eventually may wind up being capital limited in pursing what is optimal on our own and that is obviously strategically something that we are going to continue to wrestle with.
Got you.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Two questions for you.
One on you evaluating strategic options on your Midstream business does this mean that your goal of being free cash flow positive in 2014 is moved forward?  Certainly we could get free cash flow positive and if you mean cash flow minus CapEx but the odds are that we would wind up turning around and investing that business in accelerated development.
I think transactions that we have seen out in the marketplace have pointed out that entities that have what for practical purposes looked to us to be unlimited amounts of capital have an ability to accelerate the development beyond the capability of companies such – that are our sized.
And therefore getting – increasing the value of our company is probably going to continue to be tied to trying to pull forward that development of the resource as much as we can.
But again subject to the constraint that we actually agree with the investors that we should not be tapping the equity markets for that.
Great.
And then on the new frac geometry why today show us the geometry and what you are doing but not to put out results? And I understand that it takes a year of data but why are you guys giving us that information today? And I think before when you talked about the incremental cost it was $1 million and now it’s $1.6 million.
What’s changed there?  Well I think the reason we are not giving conclusions yet is because we don’t have conclusions yet so.
But we did reach the point where I think for competitive reasons enough information was leaking out and most of our competitors were fairly aware with what our design was there was really no advantage to trying to keep that a secret any more.
So that’s why we decided to talk more about the specifics.
I think we’ve said all along we won’t be drawing conclusions for quite some time yet.
Regarding the cost that’s a mixture of things.
Some is we’ve been experimenting with – the design hasn’t been completely static the whole time so we have been tweaking it some.
And the latest version is a little bit more expensive than where we started.
That combined with oil field inflation that we have seen since we started doing this has contributed.
And some of it’s just around because it involves a lot more activity on site in terms of setting plugs and there is a lot of down time.
Honestly early on it was hard to estimate what the costs would be since a lot of service providers didn’t really know how to price it.
So now I think we have done enough.
They know how they are going to price it and we know what it’s going to cost.
So I think our cost estimates are just more sound now.
So to kind of reiterate that first point though Becca.
The reason we weren’t providing details about this previously is for competitive reasons.
We really didn’t have a great interest in sharing that with our competitors.
We’ve become aware – and we know that that information eventually leaks out but we thought why help the cause.
And we’ve become aware over the last couple of months or so that through service providers et cetera that the information has gotten out to the point where frankly it’s probably only the investor community and analyst community that wasn’t aware of what we were doing.
So we figured that we should levelize the knowledge playing field.
Thanks.
And then would it be fair to say that even if you’d planned originally to drill a certain number of wells using this new frac geometry that as you drilled your first one late last year that you wouldn’t be continuing this if you didn’t think that there – the economics in it was higher EURs per well to justify the higher cost?  I think in an experiment like this there are sort of several outcomes.
One could be that from the initial results were below expectations and it was clear that it was a failure and we would discontinue.
Obviously we haven’t done that.
The other outcome for this kind of thing is results are at expectation or above but because of the nature of what we’re trying to do you need a substantial amount of history before you can draw firm conclusions about the economics and I’d say that’s where we are at.
So you can conclude that the initial results were not bad enough for us to pull the plug.
And I think we have given some indication of what we’re seeing in the 60% higher IPs versus offset wells.
So and that is in the range of what we were expecting to see.
Great.
Thank you guys.
But it’s still true that it’s not clear to us that we would want to do this if in the fullness of time as it were it seems as it the only thing we are doing is accelerating the production from given EURs.
So that’s what takes time.
Is to see compared to the offsets what does that decline curve look like.
And is this in fact just accelerate – to what extent is it acceleration and clearly there is a lot of acceleration going on and to what extent is it higher recovery factors so higher EURs.
And I guess one thing I would add is for the cost that we’re quoting the $1.6 million for our type well for this to be an attractive economic opportunity for us we need to see about 10% higher EUR per well.
So 10% or better this would be a success below that we probably wouldn’t adopt it.
So you could also then conclude that we certainly have not gotten to – I guess in the scientific sense we had not rejected the hypothesis that this was attractive.
Thank you guys.
Good morning guys.
What is the goal for the Huron in terms of production growth? Kind of the multi-year goal.
Is it to keep production flat there grow it single-digits or double-digits or could you talk about that?  I don’t think we’d say that strategically the goal there is necessarily tied to a particular volume growth level.
As with everything of course the goal is to extract as much value as we can from that asset and it’s a long-lived asset.
We’d certainly like to figure out a way to accelerate the monetization of that asset.
I think it remains to be seen whether that’s entirely through the drill bit or whether in some form or fashion that is a candidate for some other form of monetization at least partially.
Okay.
Have you looked at the royalty trust option for that asset or your CBMS?  I’ll let Phil speak to that.
We are looking at it.
We haven’t made a conclusion yet on that but it’s -- we’re certainly aware of that structure and we’re looking at it to see how it compares to other the cost of capital of our other alternatives.
Okay.
And then...
Can’t rule out the joint-venture structure for Huron either.
I mean there is a variety of things that still look like they could be attractive with regard to getting that pulling that value forward in the Huron.
Okay.
And then can you update us on your latest thinking around the utility given that you should be building up quite a bit of IDCs which would help shield any tax gain from the sale of that asset?  Yes at this point it’s small enough that compared to the rest of the company in my view and Pat you can’t quite reach me to kick me if you don’t like what I’m saying but I think that decision should be subsidiary to the broader decision about the structure of the corporation.
Okay.
If we wind up going down the road of splitting it I think you don’t worry about the LDC first you do the split first and then you let that subsequent company worry about the LDC.
If you decide you’re going to not do that then I think it makes more sense to revisit okay now what do we do with the LDC? But I think the first thing you decide is what to do with the broader structure.
Incidentally we went through that logic on the MLP also and we reached the conclusion that you want to do the MLP first regardless of which way you go on structure.
I mean we looked at that we studied it we got advisers to help us with it and we concluded that it won’t – that won’t preempt either direction we might want to go on structure.
And in fact if you want to do an MLP your probably best of doing it before you make that – you execute against that.
With the LDC I think it’s the flip side.
I think you wait until after you’ve made the structure decision.
Okay makes sense.
And then Marcellus average lateral lengths continue to increase they averaged about 5 000 feet in the quarter up from 4 800.
Should we expect you to be averaging the 5 300 and the type curve by kind of late this year or when should we expect you to average 5 300 for well spud.
I think when we look at lateral lengths by quarter you’re likely to see a fair amount of variability quarter-to-quarter because it’s very much driven by the specific completely driven by the specific wells we drill in a quarter.
I would say generally speaking I would expect it will be around that 5 300 foot average next year.
But any given quarter could be plus or minus several hundred feet so.
Okay.
And then last do you have any well results to talk about from Tioga County or West Virginia?  Well first in Tioga County we are currently drilling up there Randy’s group is constructing a pipeline to get the gas to market.
We don’t expect any production results until the very end of the year.
So our first opportunity to talk about it would be the first quarter call.
Full-year call.
Full-year call.
So nothing really to report there other than the drilling is going ahead fine and then the pipeline constriction is moving ahead on schedule.
In West Virginia I have a couple of things I can tell you.
On the last call we talked about a six well pad with nice results in Doddridge County.
Just to complete the set I can tell you that the seventh well on that pad was the best one.
It’s 24-hour average IP was 11.6 million a day which would pull that average up a little bit.
In total since the last call we’ve turned in line 15 wells.
13 wells of those 15 wells were curtailed in some way during their production since that time.
So the IP rates probably aren’t particularly representative of the capability of the wells but those 15 wells averaged 6.8 million a day in their first 24 hours all in West Virginia.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
You bet.
Hi congratulations on a good quarter.
I just had a quick question.
I was unsure as to what equity production actually means when you were talking about the different scenarios you could go through?  What we’re referring to there of course that’s in the context of Midstream is EQT’s production versus other producers production.
So even – I mean if there were other and the rare occasion that we might have other working interest owners in a well of ours we tend to really include that as traveling along with equity production.
But we’re really talking about a decision to spend extra money on Midstream with the objective of being able to gather gas that is produced by other operators.
Okay and just another one if I may.
And I understand if you don’t want to answer directly but one of your peers went the route of actually doing a two step kind of IPO of the E&amp;P business.
I was just wondering why or why not that might be considered or not an alternative?  Well we’re looking at a variety of alternatives.
I mean I think we all – my impression from talking to our – most of the peers is we all – of our size is that we all realize that we’ve got this huge investment opportunity and that the size of our company makes it problematical to attack that opportunity in a optimal way and we are all finding our own ways to deal with that.
So nothing is off the table.
Okay.
Understood.
And incidentally seriously if others of you have ideas we do think – I get one or two people around here chuckle but seriously we are not – we have no pride about it being our idea.
We are happy to execute against somebody else’s good idea.
So if you have stuff to consider I’m happy for you to throw it into the hopper.
We just want the best answer for – we’re not painting a picture or something here where it’s got be it’s pride of authorship.
We’re just trying to create value.
Understood.
Thank you.
Thank you Keith.
That concludes today’s call.
The call will be replayed for a seven-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 PM Eastern time today.
The phone number for the replay is 412-317-0088.
You will need a confirmation code for the replay that code is 447030.
And the call will also be replayed for seven days on our website.
So thank you everyone for participating.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the EQT Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode (Operator Instructions).
After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Patrick Kane Chief Investor Relations Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Denise [ph].
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corp third quarter 2011 conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and CEO; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and CFO; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream Distribution and Commercial and Steve Schlotterbeck Senior Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
In just a moment Phil will summarize our operational and financial results for the third quarter which we released this morning.
Then Dave will provide an update on our development programs and strategic operational matters.
Following Dave’s remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will all be available to answer your questions.
The call will be available for replay for seven-day period beginning at 1:30 PM ET today that phone number for the replay is 412-317-0088; you will need a confirmation code which is 447032.
The call will also be replayed for seven days on our website.
But first I’d like to remind you that today’s call may contain forward-looking statements related to the future events and expectations.
You can find these factors that could cause the company’s results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today’s press release under risk factors in the company’s Form 10-K for the year ending December 31st 2010 which was filed with the SEC and updated in our subsequent Form 10-Qs which are also filed with the SEC.
Today’s call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the morning’s press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
So with that I’d turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced third quarter 2011 earnings of $1.19 per diluted share.
Adjusting for the gain on the sale of the Big Sandy Pipeline which closed as expected on July 1<sup>st </sup>EPS was $0.45 or an 88% increase over EPS in the third quarter of 2010.
The Big Sandy transaction resulted in a $111 million after tax gain.
Operating cash flow excluding the impact of the Big Sandy Pipeline sale increased to a $190 million for the 2011 quarter or by 44% compared to the same quarter last year.
The increase in cash flow comes as the result of another outstanding operational quarter including record production and midstream volumes and continued low per unit operating cost.
As a result of the Big Sandy gain the gain on the sale of our Langley natural gas processing complex earlier in the year and our growth in volumes and organic operating income we have become subject to the alternative minimum tax or AMT in 2011 and because of that we have started to pay some cash taxes again in 2011 about $36 million through the first three quarters.
Next year assuming no additional transactions we would expect to be back to be following the vast majority of our book income taxes.
Other than that the operating results this quarter are pretty straight forward and therefore my comments would be relatively brief.
EQT production operating results.
At EQT production sales volumes continue to grow at a record pace the growth rate in the recently completed quarter was 51% over the third quarter of 2010.
That growth rate was driven by sales from our Marcellus play which contributed approximately 44% of the volumes in the quarter up from only 19% in the quarter a year ago.
Gas prices were lower in the quarter consistent with lower NYMEX prices.
At the corporate level EQT received $5.25 per Mcfe compared $5.52 per Mcfe received last year.
However the realized price that EQT production was $4.02 per Mcfe compared to $3.81 per Mcfe last year.
EQT productions realized price was higher in an overall lower price environment due to the increase in the production mix from the Marcellus.
As we have discussed on recent calls apart from the gathering rate midstream charges from Marcellus production is approximately half of the gathering rate for year on.
That lower rate reflects the significantly lower cost to gather Marcellus gas.
Produce liquid mainly from our liquid-rich Huron accounted for 6% of the volumes and about 21% of the unhedged revenues in the quarter.
As a reminder we do not include ethane in this calculation as it is currently mostly sold as methane.
Total operating expenses at production were higher quarter-over-quarter as a result of higher DD&amp;A LOE and production taxes.
However unit LOE was flat with last year and unit production taxes were slightly higher as a result of recent property tax increases in the state of Virginia.
We have also seen an increase in service costs as we finalize our contracts for next year.
As a result we are increasing our cost for Marcellus well estimate from $6 million per well to $6.7 million per well.
This cost for well assumes 5300 foot of lateral pay and a standard frac design.
Moving on to the midstream results in the third quarter operating income at midstream was up 16% even with the loss of income from the Big Sandy sale.
The increase is consistent with the growth of gathered volumes and increased capacity based transmission charges on Equitrans.
Gathering net revenues increased by $9.3 million as gathering volumes increased by 35% while the average gathering rate declined by 13% again due to the increase in Marcellus gathered volumes.
The average gathering rate paid by EQT production will continue to decline as Marcellus production continues to grow as a percent of our total production mix.
Specifically the increase in Marcellus volumes where we experienced significant midstream economical scale drove over 26% decrease in midstream unit gathering and transmissions cost this quarter.
Transmission net revenues total $18.3 million.
Equitrans Marcellus expansion revenues were $7.3 million higher nearly offsetting the $8.5 million in quarter on Big Sandy Pipeline revenues.
Storage marketing and other net revenues were down $6.6 million in the third quarter.
Those results include a $4.4 million reduction in processing fees as we did not own the Langley natural gas complex during the third quarter of 2011 while we owned it for the full third quarter last year.
As have been mentioned before the storage marketing and marketing part of the midstream business relies on natural gas price volatility and seasonal spreads in the forward curve and those will continue to deteriorate year-over-year.
Given current market conditions we continue to estimate that full year 2011 net revenues in storage marketing and other will total approximately $50 million.
Operating expenses at midstream were $4.3 million lower quarter-over-quarter at $52.3 million excluding the impacts of the sales of the Langley processing complex and the Big Sandy Pipeline operating expenses were up by $5.2 million consistent with our growth in the midstream business.
Just a quick note on the Big Sandy Pipeline sale as previously discussed in July we closed the $390 million sale of our (inaudible) Big Sandy Pipeline we did record a pre-tax gain of approximately $180 million in the third quarter.
The Big Sandy Pipeline sale did also impact our unit revenue realization.
Transportation and processing revenue to EQT midstream went down by $0.14 per Mcfe while third-party gathering processing and transportation expense increased by $0.14 per Mcfe in the third quarter.
And then finally just a bit of guidance.
Today we reiterated our production sales volume forecast for full year 2011 to be clean 190 and 195 Bcfe and we are likely be in the high-end of that range.
We still expect that 2012 volumes will exceed 250 Bcfe and we will have more clarity on the 2012 volume guidance after we establish our capital budget in December.
As a result of the higher volume forecast we are increasing our operating cash flow estimate for 2011 to approximately $875 million.
As you know we also have raised approximately $620 million in pre-tax proceeds from the sale of Langley and Big Sandy were approximately $572 million after 2011 estimated cash tax payments.
So as a result we have funded nearly all of our year-to-date CapEx with the presence from the sales and operating cash flow.
We closed the quarter with no outstanding balance on our $1.5 billion credit facility.
So along with the 2011 cash flow forecast which by the way is more than 75% higher than in 2009 the last time we issued debt.
We remain in a great position from both the balance sheet and a liquidity standpoint.
And with that I will turn the call over to Dave Porges.
Thank you Phil.
Our team put up another great quarter.
50% growth in sales of produced natural gas versus last year is quite a feat.
My congratulations to our production team our midstream team and our commercial team for producing these volumes getting them to market and selling them.
These growth rates we have experienced slightly also played strengths on various of our functional group everything from procurement human resources IT in the front-end to accounting land administration and yes legal as we move through the process of getting this gas to market and selling it.
They are performing admirably and I am proud to be associated with this company as we execute against this growth strategy.
Since Phil reviewed the quarter I will dive right into an update on our midstream structure review the only topic of my prepared remarks.
Last quarter I laid out a framework for our midstream strategy in which we discussed three main options.
The first was to sell our midstream assets and outsource our midstream needs.
The second was to stay with the current model of building needed midstream systems and occasionally selling seasoned assets most like to MLPs.
We call this build fill sell and it did work this year.
Our third option was to create our own MLP with or without a partner.
Since the last call we have been more clearly defining the midstream growth opportunity built around our extensive gathering and transmission assets in the Marcellus region.
As a result of this and further study of our alternatives we are currently focusing most of our efforts on two alternatives.
We have concluded that the operational benefits of controlling the timing location and size of incremental gathering and Equitrans expansions provide value to EQT Corporation beyond the direct returns made from these investments.
Therefore we do not currently plan to exit the midstream business.
There is a price for anything still it must be clear from listening to the commentary from all of us who are large Marcellus producers.
These growth rates put a lot of stress on infrastructure.
Well it is not possible to eliminate these bottlenecks given such growth we are convinced that the best way for us to mitigate the risks includes maintaining capabilities and at least a certain amount of control in building our infrastructure.
Of course even with these capabilities one needs commercial skills involved and dealing with long line pipes and then marketing.
And this is the reason that we have been securing firm transport as one example for future pipeline projects.
However we believe we also benefit from maintaining our ability to design construct and operate pipelines in compressor stations.
Our midstream and upstream teams work closely together to assure that the take away capacity matches the pace of development and we would like to maintain that strength.
As our development activities bring us into areas of these place in which acreage is more fragmented we will be clearly be contracting with other midstream firms to gather and compress some of our produced volumes.
So we are not saying must control all of our own midstream rather we are saying that we want the ability to build out our own infrastructure to be one of the alternatives available to us.
This reality tends to push an outright sale down our list at least during the near to medium term.
Now the primary reason for not pursuing one of the midstream strategies that involves more control and coordination would be the availability of capital.
We cannot have a midstream a medium-term plan that diverts material amounts of capital from reserve development to infrastructure.
In short we still need other people’s money for this strategy to work.
So we examine the other alternatives to see how well they meet those needs.
As we work through the implications of our build fill sell approach which does provide for control and coordination during the critical build out phase and does utilize other people’s money once individual projects are built.
We have also concluded that this approach is not likely to be ideal for development in the Marcellus region.
It may work for certain systems but there appears to be too many circumstances in which somewhat discrete gathering systems interact with each other to a sufficient extent but it would problematical to have separate owners.
This is clearly a judgment call.
But as we see things now it seems less than ideal to in the words of one of our advisors Swiss cheese our midstream business in this place.
Realistically we wish to keep our future structural alternatives open and this also does less well on that score.
So build fill sell may well be employed again on occasion but it is not currently our preferred approach for Marcellus midstream.
At this point you must be wondering how we have two options since we started with three and I have downgraded likelihood of two of them.
It is the new math.
More seriously since the last call we have devoted more time to the third alternative which described as an MLP and/or partner.
We have realized that this was really tactical alternative and the strategic issue is that we are sufficiently persuaded as to the benefit of some control and as to the economic proposition of midstream investment in this region that we should see how we can pursue it even though that must mean using some form of other people’s money.
MLPs and JVs are both forms of OPM and of course JVs themselves can take many forms.
So our current efforts are focused on working through the various separate entity alternatives to see which best meets our needs.
We still wish to reach a conclusion around year end but the real timing driver is to implement something in 2012 so that we can pursue some of these midstream opportunities without diverting capital from upstream development.<br> It may be helpful for you to understand our thought process a bit as we continue this analysis.
One issue that has led us in this direction is a desire for flexibility and timing monetization of assets.
This flexibility is beneficial from both the cash flow perspective and in tax management and it seems easier to accomplish if we use a related but separate entity rather than being solely dependent upon the asset sale market as with build fill sell.
Our second issue relates to the interconnectivity of these Marcellus area systems.
Monetizing multiple assets using a single related entity helps levy concerns about this.
Eventually related assets would end up in the same entity so there may be a transition period when some part of an asset has been monetized but the other parts have not.
This is also difficult to achieve in build fill sell without sacrificing value or operational efficiency.
Our third issue is that one other concerns with committing to a separate entity is their need for visible growth opportunities.
However as we look at our existing assets and the assets necessary to support the rate of development that we expect there seem to be visible growth opportunities for quite some time.
Now increasingly these opportunities will involve new systems that are not solely or perhaps even largely dependent upon EQT produced volumes given the fragmented nature of the acreage positions.
However that will nearly be one of the realities that we will need to factor into our decision on which tactic to employ.
We don’t wish to overstate how much we know about the tactics we wish to employ.
We have certainly started the process of getting smarter about MLPs and we have had some discussions with potentially credible JV partners.
Still there is more for us to learn about the various alternatives and we are doing what we can to better to find the benefits and the risks of those alternatives.
Obviously some of the most significant tradeoffs involve cost of capital versus certainty of capital and control over the issues that matter most to us versus the ability to augment our skill set to best pursue the available opportunities.
Accordingly we are doing our best to work through the pros and cons of the various factors.
Earlier this year we communicated a longer term goal to achieve organic volumetric and cash flow growth north of 30% per annum in production over the five-year period from 2011 through 2015 and associated cash flow growth in the midstream by investing a little more than a $1 billion in external capital from 2011 through 2013 without taping the equity market.
Our asset sales to date in use of our available debt capacity should allow us to meet that goal rather comfortably.
Still these growth rates and funding needs are based on the assumption of building the needed midstream using EQT capital.
When we calibrate the proceeds of alternative financing for midstream we expect to be in a position to increase these growth forecasts to reflect the acceleration of our Marcellus development.
Thank you in advance for your patience and continued support and with that I will turn the call back over Pat.
This concludes the comments portion of the call.
Denise can we please open the call for questions.
Absolutely we will now begin the question and answer session.
(Operator instructions).
And our first question will come from Neal Dingmann of SunTrust.
Please go ahead sir.
Good Morning gentlemen.
Say just a bit of color on – maybe if you could drill down a little bit on – you have mentioned that your increases in the Marcellus cost just a bit to basically extend the laterals etcetera.
Could you give us an idea of you know in terms of those cost breakdown and then on the Marcellus plans for next year? Well most all those be with the longer laterals additional fracs stages etcetera? Neal this is Steve.
Specifically on the cost increases I think what we're seeing mostly is a lot of for contracts that we put in place a year or two ago I think we were able to get it below market prices.
Some of those are rolling off and we're currently in the process now of putting in place new contracts with our suppliers and we're seeing some cost increases.
The biggest one we're seeing is in our pumping services which is looking at about 14% increase over what we have been seeing.
Most of the other services are a little bit less than that but still look like there's going to be an increase.
So that's what's driving the cost increase for us.
One thing that I do want to stress about the cost that we quote for our wells the cost that the quote include the cost of building the locations to drill and complete the wells obviously as well as to install the production facilities and well lines.
So that cost is inclusive of all the on-site activities that we do.
So that's pretty much what's driving it.
Okay.
And Steve are these the type of wells you mentioned I think on prior calls about doing then a bit more of the – I guess the new technique for lack of better word that you are really going to start doing a number of these wells.
Is that the case for most of these more expensive wells? Well the 6.7 million per 5300 foot lateral is for our standard frac design so not with the new frac design.
I think as we put our capital budgets together in December we will be – well at that point we will disclose how many of the new frac design versus the standard we're likely to do next year.
Okay.
And then just the last question maybe over for David you gave your commentary on sort of midstream strategic alternatives around that.
Again it does sound like I guess in opinion David has timing has or has not changed I guess around that is still just as probable of something you could get done? The timing has not changed.
The only thing I added on timing was the urgency for us in making a decision is to make sure that we were able to implement by the time we get into next year.
Got it got it.
Thank you all.
I mean with these things you have to with all of them you have to make a decision and then there is a certain amount of time involved with implementing them and actually getting the from our perspective of course implementing meaning getting the cash in the door.
Absolutely absolutely.
Okay.
And our next question will come from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Scott.
Phil you give a lot of color on the midstream options there.
Just so I understand right now you have got to two leading options you know one; you are obviously you're potentially looking for a partner to help you develop that but EQT would still control and own a certain percent.
The other option is still I mean do you still leave the door open for potentially looking at you are an EQT owned MLP to – Absolutely.
Those are the two that we are focused on.
Okay.
And if you were to go sort of the EQT MLP routes you know how much control do you really need over that? I mean is that a – you would be a 50% owner or how much do you think you would need to maintain that control? Well you folks can probably look at the existing circumstances where companies have MLPs and JVs and reaches reasonable conclusion about how those things work.
And I wouldn't say anything that we would do and that type of area would be any different from what you normally observe.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then moving on to the Marcellus well that you are drilling.
When you talked last period about the (inaudible) for accessing you indicated that you needs a little bit more time at the end of the year to really get the full evaluation of this.
And I think the first ones are now are probably just about a year old I mean can you get us sort of an update on how those are performing relative to sort of your standard frac type wells? Yes I can't give you much additional data because we are still gathering data and studying it and as I've said all along it is going to take quite some time to be definitive on this.
I think as we mentioned before we generally are seeing higher initial rates.
The decline curves we have seen so far for the most part are encouraging and along the lines of what we expected to see.
Maybe the one bit of color I can provide at this point is and it still even preliminary for this but –.
Our current thinking is it's likely that we are going to find areas where the new technique is clearly beneficial from an economic standpoint I think we're going to find some areas where it just doesn't meet our economic thresholds certainly at current prices and obviously that threshold moves as gas prices move.
And then I think there's going to be some areas where it's going to take quite a bit more time for us to really define where it falls on the economic spectrum.
So that is sort of our current thinking on that but I really can't give you any more data right now.
Okay.
I think last time you said they are performing 60% better initially or something that affects – still seeing that kind of rates? Yes that's correct.
Okay.
And then lastly when I look at the number of wells that you have drilled and if not yet completed the backlog is built a little bit from the prior quarters.
Is that just due to higher level of activities are there some constraints on the frac crews[ph] in the base and if you could provide me how many frac crews do have right now and is that capable keeping up your satisfactory program.
Yes actually I think our backlog in terms of frac stages has been pretty levelled from prior quarters to this quarter.
So we're not seeing much movement I think that sort of – that's what we expect to see.
It's pretty lumpy with multiple well pads.
We are drilling.
We currently have two frac crews working currently.
And that is sufficient for us to be able to keep up with our needs for now.
We do have plans to bring a third crew in probably mid next year at some point when we need them but we are not building a backlog for back of pumping services.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
And our next question will come from Amir Arif of Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just a question on the 2012 I know you haven’t firmed up your budget but you are talking about was the 250 Bcfe just curious how many – is that a similar number of wells about a 100 Marcellus wells next year? The issue that we have got in providing updated guidance if you will on third-quarter is that our normal approach which we are sticking with this year is to go to our board for capital budget in early December.
So at this point we're really just talking about the stuff we have looked at.
The reason we haven't really given an update is we don’t really have a budget yet.
So I think it's a little – I mean (inaudible) rough idea of what that would involve as far as how many well we drill.
But do bear in mind that in the Marcellus there is quite a lag involved.
And the 2012 budget capital budget has a rather muted effect on 2012 volumes.
But I'm happy to really comment – I think that's exactly right.
The thing to keep in mind with – especially with the timing related to the multi-well pads we drilled 24 volumes will be driven probably more so by 2011 drilling than it will be by 2012 drilling.
So you have to be careful about connecting the two too closely.
Okay.
Sounds good.
Just on the new frac designs that you are doing I know just you mentioned that IP rates are higher you're not in a position to sort of quantify yet will you be at a position year-end (inaudible) on the new approach? I'm not sure – but again you know our target was to make sure by the time we are actually making decisions on the budget that we would have – we have reached the firmer position on that and not trying to put you off but you know we’re – that's again that something that we spent most in November pulling that stuff together.
From our perspective we are still on that same schedule.
Okay.
And then so are the initial rates 50% to 60% higher can you tell us 6 to 12 months out how much higher the rates are on the new wells versus the old type curve? I think we're going to pass on that for now mostly because we don't have sufficient number of wells with 12 month worth of production yet.
So most of the data we're working with is still pretty early in the wells life.
So I think we're not going to not comment on that right now.
Okay.
Could you just may be let us know are all of these wells in Green County or in the Southeast portion or it is split across rig which in terms of the percentage improvements you are seeing? Well Sounds good.
Thanks you.
And our next question comes will come from Hsulin Peng of Robert Baird.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Dave I just want to make sure that I understand just the options that’s on the table one you are saying it’s a JV structure where you work with a partner and most likely a financial partner and the second one is your own MLP correct? Well I didn’t say a financial partner.
And I also want to make clear that those are not necessarily distinct approaches.
You could conceivably combine our joint venture and MLP.
The real thing that we focused on is that we do want to pursue this opportunity we want to reach a specific decision on it quickly so that we can implement meaning not just close but get cash in the door you know by mid-2012 or there about which means that we do need to be reaching closure on it pretty quick.
And frankly in laying out some of the stuff that we are interested in you know that hopefully gives the market a better idea of the kind of characteristics that we are looking for as we look through this which is the certain amount of control.
But we also need low cost of capital.
You know that’s a big it’s not just availability of capital that we like through a separate entity it’s lower cost of capital.
Right.
I mean I understand the objectives can you just repeat what are the options on the table then? Well separate entity.
And at this point all we know about the possibility to separate entity if you look around and I am talking about specific to midstream are joint ventures and MLPs.
So those when we focus on studying these those are the things that we are focused on.
But we are aware that there is other you know these clever folks out there in the marketplace and if one of them hears about the objectives that we have and says “We got a way to give you a lot of inexpensive money and meet your objectives” in some other way then that’s fine for us too.
Okay.
The overall objective of the evaluation you are still hoping to make a decision by year end and what’s the implementation plan sometime in 2012? Well the only emphasis that I was putting kind of new emphasis on timing is that we have to make a decision around year end so that we can actually start getting money in the door to pursue some of this and to make sure that we are not diverting money as we have been frankly from development into midstream.
So it isn’t just a magic number I am making a decision.
I mean around here the real goal is get the cash in the door.
We need to get the cash in the door and the only way that’s going to happen is to make a decision quickly.
Okay.
And so this is not different probably you have previously outlined really? It’s the same.
Yes it’s basically the same.
It’s just that we are recognizing that it’s possible that if you look at MLPs or joint ventures they could either be distinct or they could be together.
What we have really talked about before the two changes that we have made is we intend to (inaudible) MLP and JV together before and now we are saying they could be together they could be separable.
And the other thing is we have said the other two alternatives that we have looked for instance particularly build fill sell – that doesn’t look to be as suitable for what we are trying to accomplish as a separate entity would be.
Okay.
And just to clarify – So that’s I guess – so as we dive down into one alternative you windup seeing the different aspects of that alternative if you will.
Right.
And really to maintain and giving that control is what you are looking for I mean as long as you have the general partner in that MLP structure that is control.
Yes I agree.
Correct.
Yes.
Okay.
Solid.
And the second question on your additional low cost – It’s a sufficient amount of control I don’t want to presume what – there is LP unit holders have rights of course but it’s enough control for us.
And actually that’s the only reason I had mentioned kind of stopped you as far as just a financial partner.
I could easily imagine working with a strategic partner where we have a sufficient amount of control over the stuff that matters to us which is the timing location and size of the facilities.
So yes it’s certainly conceivable but we would operate we would be with strategic who would say we will bend towards your control concerns sufficiently to meet EQTs needs.
Okay.
So at the end of course it’s like the best value and it’s very hard to speculate you know what’s the best value until at the time we announced a decision you can be confident that that’s what we think is the best value for us all in.
Okay.
And that (inaudible) Yes.
Okay.
And then my second set of questions regarding the service cost I know you mentioned that some of your current (inaudible) but can you just be more specific actually in terms of which component in service cost is driving the – is it pressure pump or what other key component is driving the cost? Yes the big mover is the pumping services which is the biggest cost we have in drilling and completing a well.
It is also the area that is seeing the biggest percentage cost increase.
So it’s really driven by the fracing cost.
Okay.
And can you talk about what this does to your economics? Well obviously it has a negative impact on our economics.
We will be updating our slides in our presentation after the call.
Yes I know you will I am just trying to get a magnitude of interest of the IRR but I can wait for the slides.
Yes thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Joe Allman of J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Joe.
Hi Dave just to clarify again on the restructuring area.
In terms of the cash in the door that you speak of you don’t necessarily have any cash in the door today.
I think if I understand correctly you need cash in the door on an ongoing basis? Yes.
Yes we would rather have cash in the door on an ongoing basis but if somebody at J.
P.
Morgan just wants to write us a really big cheque and then we have to swear house it I am sure we can make that work too.
It won’t be me I guarantee that.
But so I guess in terms of it – so the monetization that you – so with the cash in the door that you would get upfront mostly likely would be based on the existing midstream assets is that correct? Or you are thinking that okay you might actually – That’s true.
It would most likely be in the existing midstream assets.
It’s just that – from what we observed these are just observations now.
When the other MLPs you have periodic dropdowns and you get cash from that.
In some of the joint venture approaches it seems like you could do the same thing or there is circumstances where somebody comes in low and winds up buying their way up.
So you don’t actually get cash in the door subsequently but you no longer invest your own cash in the midstream.
So effectively it’s bringing up cash but it’s because perhaps the construction is going other side of the entity.
Got you.
So are you leaning more towards to the JV at this point than MLP it seems to me that based on what you are describing that’s really what you need.
If I am leading you to believe that I am leaning either towards the JV or towards the MLP I did not mean to.
I am open minded about those.
To me it’s a big deal that we have said it’s got to be a separate entity.
We need to make a decision quick because we want to be able to close this thing no matter how complex it is and get cash on the door within a matter of months.
Got you.
Okay.
And you want to have its own credit facility et cetera? I am sorry.
And you want that entity to have its own credit facility? I haven’t really focused.
I mean I guess the odds are that that would be the case because it’s – if it’s a separate entity it probably would.
Okay.
Do you expect to make an announcement by year end? I expect to make an announcement once we get – once it’s the appropriate time to make an announcement.
Got you okay.
Alright very helpful.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Mark Crusoe of Millennium Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Dave I think I don’t want to drag it out like it’s been dragged out many times here.
I guess two clarifications for me.
The first is why I guess is it crazy to assume that you probably want to have an idea of what you are doing by the time you get to formal decisions on the budget for next year? No not necessary because we are not going to spend money that we don’t have.
We are not going to spend money we don’t have.
So we have to have contingence stuff in the budget that is fine.
What I like to have a decision made sooner rather than late by the time of the budget sure but we need to go through the process in a kind of combined thoroughness and speed.
Gotcha.
And then as far as once you’ve made decision NLP are JV by the end of the year and you want to implement that early New Year does that cover your thought process around splitting does that sort of effectively do that for you as you are moving that business around or is that – No I don’t believe so.
What I meant to communicate with that is that that type of structure would not be inconsistent with that.
That we would not want to enter into a transaction that took that off the table.
Gotcha.
The Swiss cheesing thing the concern was that if you just saw little pieces here and there our stake of this system and the stake in that system then you kind of taking that off the table.
So not only though have we – we have not as I mentioned before we have not made any of those kinds of decisions but we don’t want to implicitly make the decision because of how we go about dealing with midstream time around.
We just want to make sure that we are not unwillingly taking such structural alternatives off the table.
And we will be mindful of that.
And you guys have – I think I heard you say earlier already in discussions with or have had inbound interest from JV partners? Yes we have.
And I wouldn’t be shocked if after this call we get more.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thanks.
And our next question will come from John Abbott of Pritchard Capital Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks for taking my question Hey John.
Just really quickly looking at your guidance for 2011 I was somewhat surprised that you actually didn’t raised guidance for the year.
Is there some sort of bottleneck that we should be looking at for two for the fourth quarter of 2011? I wouldn’t say that there is a specific bottleneck.
Now it just didn’t seem like the obviously these growth rates always do put some stress on midstream as we mentioned before.
It was more that it just didn’t feel like it was inappropriate.
Well it didn’t seem like it was that big a deal though to take a look at the guidance and we are getting pretty close to the end of the year.
We gave a range; we basically just kind of tightened it.
All right.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Phil Jungwirth of BMO.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Some of the large service companies indicated on their calls that they were seeing pressure on pumping rates in some of the gas basins.
Is that something that you are seeing throughout the Marcellus Play and the reason you are increasing your well cost is just because you are contracted below market rates? Or could you help clarify that? Well I mean all I can really say is I do believe that for the past couple years we have been contracted below market rates and now those contracts are opening back up.
The service companies are trying to move us closer to market which I think makes perfect sense from their standpoint.
We obviously don’t like it.
But I think that’s life in this business so but I think that – I don’t think there is any more to it than that simple fact.
Okay and then of the six Marcellus rigs that you are currently running how many are drilling in kind of the 90CF type curve area versus the Tier-2 and the Tier-3 areas that you’ve laid out? Honestly don’t know exactly on any given day but I think pretty close would be two or three in the Tier-1 and the balance is Tier-3.
I don’t think we have any in Tier-2 as I speak today.
Okay and are you – and then to the varied by timing of wells actually being brought on production such as the rigs in the Tier-3 area.
Those wells take a lot longer to be brought on production as not as much in most of the productions from Green County currently? Could you repeat that question? I was just asking that varies by wells being brought on production? Still not sure I quite understand but there is a lot of factors that go into where we drill at any given time.
A lot of it is driven by really two factors one land.
So we want to drill as many wells from a location as we can to get the economies of the multi-well pad drilling.
So we wait until a pad has got the bulk of its wells ready to go before we move a rig.
So that dictates a little bit and we also strongly prefer to drill where we are going to move the gas immediately.
So targeting our rigs to go to the areas where the capacity is ready to go is probably the primary dictator where we put our rigs.
And that changes over time.
So if you take a snapshot at any given time we might have a lot of rigs in Tier-1 or we might have most of our rigs in Tiers 2 or 3.
It’s what’s going to get us the most – the best return for our investment in any given time.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
And our next question will come from Gil Yang of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Just to beat the dead horse a little more.
The auctions for the midstream restructuring is it out of principle that the build sell is not viable and others are related options? Or is it just a matter of the value and the prices cushions you are having with potential buyers were not positioned.
No I say it is the main reason that it is difficult is in the Marcellus region there is so much interrelationship between these systems technically.
Certainly as we talk with about South Western Pennsylvania and Northern West Virginia that to get the best out of build fill sell you have to be prepared to hold auctions on individual systems one at a time even if they wind up being related to each other.
And then you wind up with a circumstance rather you are going to sacrifice on price on a say a second asset so that you can have the same entity owning a couple of related assets or you’ve got the risk of operational inefficiencies because you are dealing with so many different owners.
It would be a lot easier we’ve concluded.
And frankly the value seems to be there to just have a separate a single separate entity.
Okay and just selling everything just to one entity would not viable for what reasons? Well if it’s related to us that’s fine if it’s not related to us we are going to run into more of the problems that from what we hear a lot other producers run into which is midstream companies operating completely independently typically do not want to build the systems out until they know exactly how much volume is going to fill them.
Right.
And they will design those systems so that they can maximize understandably maximized returns for themselves.
Right so that would go back to the control issue? Yeah exactly.
But is there a price for that giving up of control that you would have taken? I think that’s a combination of you‘d have to a certain contractual relationship that travels along with the control.
And if you are saying if there is a combination of contractual terms and price that would convince us if that make sense absolutely.
Are you anywhere near that or it doesn’t sound like you are it sounds like that the price is – Look the most attractive pricing out there seems to be back.
I have not yet seen that doing the whole thing results in a one-time sale or have a contract actually results and is good economics as you see in those other alternatives.
And I – guess that that’s probably the reason that you generally speaking seen companies in similar situations to us either enter into joint ventures or enter into form of MLPs.
And of course once you finish much of the build out then that’s – that doesn’t matter anymore.
Right okay.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Josh Silverstein of Enerecap.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Just a last question on the midstream potential partnership.
I was curious if it was there were any specific assets or is it just a specific areas that might be targeted for that like would you rather have a pipelines or a processing asset into that joint venture versus having it at the C Corp level? No I would think that eventually we moved towards the bulk of the Marcellus operation midstream moving towards that separate entity.
Gotcha.
Okay.
And I was curious also if there are any other potential upstream financing options whether it would be selling off any of the assets you guys are not putting much capital into whether it be the Huron or the CBM assets? We are constantly looking at those things.
Eventually we are going to have to do more.
I mean our attitude here back when we started looking at the processing plant at Big Sandy of course lot of folks talked to us about midstream and we said we are focused on the processing plant in Big Sandy first and we’ll get to that.
And that’s kind of the attitude that we have – I’ve got on the some of the other stuff you are talking about now is you are absolutely right we are going to have to do that too.
And we are doing as much as we think we can handle at any one time to sort through the various alternatives but absolutely we cannot let opportunities sit there and not take full advantage.
We have to figure out ways to extract more value from others of those assets it just happens that the midstream is the number one priority as we talk here on October 27<sup>th</sup>.
Gotcha that’s helpful and then the comments before that you made about being able to take this capital and put it into the upstream business to grow that 30% in a five year growth rate now how much faster do you think that could grow? Is it potentially 40 plus percent or is that something that’s less than that? I don’t know that I want to put a number out and I’ll just say faster than that.
Gotcha and then lastly just kind of – Unless you want a free economic I mean we are not aiming for we are trying to solve for the highest possible growth rate in volumes.
We are aiming for the highest possible shareholder value.
Got it.
And then lastly just a bit of a proximity question but I was curious if you guys have seen some service equipment migrate over to Ohio for the Utica Shale and is that’s something that you think might cause some additional service inflation for the Marcellus producers? Well I think any additional demand certainly has the potential to drive our pricing up.
We haven’t seen any issues with that in particular I think the crews we have are dedicated to us.
So they are not going anywhere.
The rigs we have are under contract and are going to leave our service.
So in terms of access to the services I don’t see any problems in terms of whether that affects the market through pricing for those services.
Obviously more activity in a neighbouring play could have that.
Thanks.
And our next question will come from Kim Schneider of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Gil pretty much already asked my question I guess just to follow-up on that.
Did you guys if you can disclose it get a bid yet on the entire Midstream assets? We are not going to – actually part of the delicacy of course is there is only a certain amount of detail that we really feel comfortable providing on any of that that’s why we are focusing on the philosophical questions.
So I just assume that.
Okay thanks.
I hope you can be pretty sure and that’s going to be difficult it’s just – I don’t want to just bleed out the one piece of information and another piece of information.
Yeah no worries I understand.
And our last question for the day will come from Sameer Esna[ph] of Decade Capital.
Please go ahead.
I just wanted to kind of get a couple of things clear in that – so hopefully by year-end you’ll have a decision on whether to go with the MLP route the JV route or a combination thereof.
That’s essentially what you said I think.
And then does that precludes you to consider a split later on afterwards.
So maybe sometime later in 2012 or sometime later? We would not want to do anything that would preclude any reasonable structural alternatives down the road.
So I guess at this point the reason to go with MLP and/or JV initially rather than the split is for what reason? You actually get capital.
Got it.
We don’t get any capital from a split.
Got it.
Got it okay.
So okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
I’m showing no further questions in the queue.
That will conclude our question and answer session today.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Patrick Kane for any closing comments.
Thank you Denise and thank you all for participating.
That concludes the call.
Good morning and welcome to the EQT Corporation year-end 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions).
After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Patrick Kane Chief Investor Relations Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Laura.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corp’s year-end 2011 conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Financial Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream Distribution and Commercial and Steve Schlotterbeck Senior Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
In just a moment Phil will summarize our 2011 operational and financial results which were released this morning.
Then Dave will provide an update on our development programs reserve reports and strategic operational matters.
Following Dave’s remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will all be available to answer your questions.
This call will be replayed for a seven-day period beginning at 1:30 p.m Eastern Time today the phone number for the replay is 412-317-0088.
The confirmation code for the replay is 447033.
The call will also be replayed for seven days on our website.
But first I’d like to remind you that today’s call may contain forward-looking statements relating to the future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today’s press release and under risk factors in the company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st 2010 which was filed with the SEC and is updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are also on file with the SEC and available on our website.
And in the company’s upcoming 10-K for year ended December 31 2011 which will be filed with the SEC.
Today’s call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the morning’s press release for information on these non-GAAP financial measures.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you saw in the press release this morning EQT announced 2011 earnings of $3.19 per diluted share compared to $1.57 per diluted share in 2010.
After adjusting for several items which accumulatively added $148.4 million to our net income our adjusted EPS was $2.21 in 2011.
The adjustments to net income include the impacts of the sale of Big Sandy Pipeline in the third quarter the purchase of the outstanding interest in ANPI in the second quarter the sale of the Langley Natural Gas Processing Complex and an adjustment for non-income tax matters in the first quarter and a gain on the sale of some available for-sale securities in the first half of the year.
Operating cash flow which was not significantly impacted by these items in 2011 also increased by $236 million or by about 36%.
These results were driven by another outstanding operational year at each of EQT’s business units.
Leading the way on the annual operating performance was a 44% increase in sales of produced natural gas and liquids at EQT production which represented our highest annual sales growth rate ever.
The other volumes at EQT Midstream also increased by 32% trending up with the higher volumes at EQT Production.
The EQT average wellhead sales price was $5.37 per Mcf in 2011 or about $0.25 lower than in 2010.
The realized price drop resulted from lower NYMEX natural gas prices in ’11 as compared to ’10 partially offset by higher natural gas liquids prices.
Approximately 7% of EQT’s total production in 2011 was in the form of liquids.
For segment reporting purposes of that $5.37 per Mcf of revenue realized by EQT Corporation $4.04 per Mcf was allocated to EQT Production and the remaining $1.33 per Mcf to EQT Midstream.
Overall absolute cost increase is expected given our outstanding growth rate but on a unit basis the total cost to produce gather process and transport EQT’s produced natural gas and NGLs was down about 22%.
The fourth quarter results basically mirrored the full year so I do not intend to discuss them in detail.
However I will point out that the revenue deduction for third-party gathering processing and transportation was $0.43 for the full year of 2011 and $0.29 in the fourth quarter as shown in the table in this morning’s press release.
The fourth quarter number was positively impacted by the company’s ability to resell it’s unused contractive capacity on the recently completed El Paso 300 line at unit rates above what we currently pay under the existing agreement with El Paso.
The margin from capacity that was sold under short-term contracts that is contracts with a duration of less than a year reduced the revenue deduction by about $0.12 per Mcf on gas sold by EQT in the quarter.
Put another way by adding the $0.12 to the $0.29 reported in the fourth quarter a reasonable per-unit rate – run rate for the deduction for third-party gathering processing and transportation in models would be approximately $0.41 for Mcf.
This number will be impacted positively or negatively going forward depending on market rates we will receive for the resell of our 300 line capacity that is not currently reserved for EQT Production or under long-term resell contracts with third-parties.
Moving on to a brief discussion of results by business segments starting with EQT Production and there as has been the case for several years now the big story in the quarter at EQT Production was the growth rate in sales of produced natural gas.
As I mentioned the growth rate was a little bit north of 44% for the year and was slightly north of 37% for the quarter.
By the way the sixth straight consecutive quarter of more than 35% rolling year-over-year growth.
Those growth rates were driven by sales from our Marcellus wells which contributed 42% of the volumes in 2011.
In the fourth quarter Marcellus sales volumes accounted for 47% of the total volumes.
Total sales volume would have been about 300 Mcf equivalent higher for the year and the quarter but for a dehydration equipment malfunction in December.
Unit realized price at EQT Production was slightly or about 3% higher than last year even as the corporations realized price declined a bit as I already mentioned.
This is one of the benefits of an increase in the Marcellus sales percentage as the Marcellus gathering rate is $0.60 per Mcf compared to $1.25 per Mcf for the majority of our other production.
Moving on to expenses in the production unit.
Total operating expenses were $90 million higher year-over-year.
Absolute DD&amp;A SG&amp;A LOE and production taxes were all higher consistent with the significant production growth.
DD&amp;A represented about $73 million of the $90 million increase.
Absolute LOE was a bit higher year-over-year however volume increases have been outpacing the general trend of higher absolute expenses.
And as you would expect per unit LOE was lower in 2011 by about $0.04 or 17% to $0.20 per Mcfe for the full-year 2011.
Moving on to the Midstream business excluding the gains of the Big Sandy and Langley sales operating income here was up about 19% consistent with the 32% growth in gathered volumes mainly from EQT Productions growing sales volume and that resulted in a 18% increase in gathering net operating revenues.
Transmission net revenues also increased by almost 7% year-over-year as a result of added equitrans capacity from the Equitrans-Marcellus expansion project an increased throughput more than offsetting revenues no longer received by – received from the Big Sandy pipeline.
On the other hand the line item titled storage marketing and other net operating income was down up $7 million in the fourth quarter and $35 million for the full year.
This part of the Midstream business as we talked repeatedly about it it relies on seasonal volatility and spreads and the forward curve and those continue to trend down in 2011 versus prior years.
Also the loss of processing fees from Langley third-party liquids resulted in lower marketing revenues.
For 2012 we expect revenues from storage marketing and other to be approximately $45 million.
Net operating expenses at Midstream were about $27 million lower year-over-year lower O&amp;M and DD&amp;A expenses which collectively were $28 million lower year-over-year represent basically the entire absolute decrease in Midstream expenses.
The absence of expenses associated with the sole Big Sandy and Langley assets and reductions in non-income tax reserves resulted in those decreases.
Then in conclusion with finally with our standard liquidity update.
We did close the year in a great liquidity position with $0 in net short-term debt outstanding under our $1.5 billion revolver and about $830 million of cash on the balance sheet.
As detailed in the press release due to the current low natural gas price environment we have lowered our cash flow forecast for 2012 by about $100 million and therefore consistent with our intent to live within our means the company has decided to discontinue drilling Huron wells.
As a result our 2012 CapEx forecast decreased by about $135 million to $1.465 billion for 2012.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to David Porges.
Thank you Phil.
2011 was another record year for EQT.
Earnings per share operating cash flow sales volumes Midstream throughput and natural gas reserves were all higher than ever before.
Though the primary purpose of this call is to communicate with investors I first wish to convey my congratulations for these accomplishments to the 1 800-plus employees of EQT Corporation.
Having such a strong group managing our assets gives me confidence that we will continue to earn premium returns for our shareholders.
Sales of produced natural gas and liquids were 44% higher than in 2010.
This is on top of 30% growth in 2010 over 2009.
Put another way our daily sales volumes when we exited 2009 totalled 300 million cubic feet.
We exited 2011 at 580 million cubic feet per day 93% higher in just two years.
The Marcellus continues to drive our growth.
Marcellus Production accounted for 47% of our sales of produced natural gas in the fourth quarter.
EQT has tremendous assets.
While our objective is to maximize value creation rather than volume creation from these assets the only practical way to do so is by economically monetizing our extensive reserve base be it production and other means and by extracting value from our Midstream assets and Midstream opportunities.
However we believe it is also necessary that we live within our means financially without issuing equity.
In 2011 I believe we made great strides towards doing so but the work continues.
I’d like to review a little of how we did this in 2011 and also how we intend to do so in 2012.
In 2011 we invested $1.4 billion in to our business.
We funded this investment with $900 million of operating cash flow plus $620 million of Midstream asset sales.
The proceeds from the asset sales came from the outright sale of two assets.
We examined other structures and assets but determined that selling these two assets outright was the best approach.
For 2012 we have decided that the best approach to create value is again investing our operating cash flow plus also utilizing other available capital.
This other capital includes utilizing our investment grade debt capacity which we did in late 2011 and further monetizing Midstream assets by forming a MLP.
As we announced last month we plan to file the S1 this quarter though we recognize that this merely starts the process with the SEC.
The advantages to EQT shareholders of forming a MLP include maintaining operational control of where when ad to what speck gathering is built access to a on-going source of low cost capital and participation in any MLP distribution growth.
Of course a publically traded currency would also provide a market view of the value of the MLPs assets.
Our objective maximizing shareholder value is unchanged by changes in the environment in which we operate.
The strategy accomplishing this the ammonization of our asset base and prudent pursuit of investment opportunities while living within our means is also largely unaffected by the changes we have experienced lately.
Tactics however can and should change.
Despite of a bit of a rebound this week natural gas prices are down sharply since we established our capital budget in December.
Lower prices impact us in two ways.
First they reduce cash flow from operations and less cash available for investments.
We have over 50% of our dry gas hedged in a average price of $5.43 and about 7% of our production in the form of NGLs and oil.
And incidentally recall we include ethane in our dry gas numbers since the [inaudible] for ethane are essentially equivalent to methane on a per Btu basis.
Even so based on cases we ran using last week’s lows for the 2012 strip our 2012 cash flow estimates were almost $100 million lower than when we established our capital budget.
Lower prices also reduced the projected returns of our drilling program.
Marcellus returns are still strong at the current five year strip about $3.90.
We also stress test our investments and the projected are still adequate at [inaudible] strip.
Please do keep in mind that the lags between spending capital on Marcellus wells and selling natural gas produced from those wells is several months meaning the relevant five year strip when looking at 2012 investments is actually the 2013 to 2017 strip which is currently somewhat north of $4.
Therefore it is clear to us that investments in developing our Marcellus play are attractive though they would obviously be even more attractive at higher prices.
Regarding our Huron wells even though they are liquids rich the returns are still below the Marcellus wells.
But since lower prices mean a reduction in operating cash flow and we are commitment to living within our means something has to give.
That something is the Huron and this is why we have suspended drilling in that play effective immediately.
We will complete the wells that we have already – that have already been spud and continue to produce from existing wells.
<br>This decision will reduce our 2012 CapEx by about $135 million and reduce our forecast of sales of produced natural gas by approximately 5 Bcfe.
The effect of this decision of volumes in the out years is the decline of 6 Bcfe in 2013 and a little over 3 Bcfe in 2014.
The fact that the lag between drilling and sales in the Huron is much less than in the Marcellus is why the 2012 impact is as large as this and the 2013/2014 impacts are as small as they are.
Normally one might lean away from cutting spending in a area in which we experience a shorter lag but 2012 is not shaping up as a normal year.
I’d now like to comment on our reserve report which was released today.
Our continued success in the Marcellus resulted in a 535 Bcfe or 18.5% increase in prude reserves.
This increase was partially offset by a 413 Bcfe decrease in Huron prude reserves and we eliminated all of the prude undeveloped reserves consistent with our decision to suspend drilling of Huron wells.
<br>I remain confident that this play has value for our shareholders but we are not going to be pursuing that value in the near future so we’re moving these PUDs now seemed appropriate.
Further regarding reserves we continued to have success with our experiment with tighter frac clusters.
As we previously noted this design works best in the more brittle areas of our play.
Brittleness is also positively correlated with higher EURs using the standard frac design.
With the year of well [inaudible] in Rogersville Green County we estimate an IP 40% higher than a standard frac well with EURs trending 20 to 25% higher.
Our 2012 plan includes 49 wells using this design with about half applied where we have well control and half to these risk areas where predict success.
We still do not have enough data to book many reserves or extrapolate these results across our acreage but are excited about the results so far.
In summary EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by accelerating the monetization of our reserves and other opportunities.
We continue to be focused on earning the highest possible returns from our investment and doing what we should to increase the value of your shares.
<br>We will stay disciplined and live within our means investing our available cash from operations and from future monetization.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and appreciate your continued support.
Pat? Thanks Dave.
This concludes the comments portion of the call.
Laura could you please open the call for questions? We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question is from Neal Dingmann of Suntrust.
Go head please.
Good morning guys.
Dave I just wanted to – if you could quick comment obviously on the new frac design that you’ve talked a lot about and have seen quite incremental results.
You know again with what’s going on with gas prices you know does that cause you to give pause to that or does it actually cause you to increase?  I just wanted sort of comments around that and if you’re going to continue to ramp that up.
I’ll let Steve comment mainly on it but we do focus and we have focused all along on the extent to which we’re getting increases in EURs versus just the rest of acceleration.
So you can see form the numbers a lot of it is – our results that we’re getting from increased EUR so it’s really just a more efficient way to spend.
I mean in theory if you could spend the same amount of money but have the – come from and have the same volume come from fewer wells you would have a lot of efficiencies in other aspects of the business.
A lot of that is what we’re seeing.
We certainly understand that this is not a timeframe in which you would seek acceleration for its own sake but we do take that into account when we’re looking at the projected return.
Steve I’ll let you – would you like to add anything? I think the only thing I would add is you’ll notice that 50% of the wells we intend to use that technique on in 2012 are in our – what we call our Rogersville area in Green County where as we get more data our confidence level continues to rise that we are actually seeing quite a – a fairly significant increase in ultimate recovery.
Our number even at the current stripe prices show the returns on that incremental capital to be in excess of the base return on our Marcellus drilling.
So I think even exceptionally low prices on half of those wells it makes excellent sense.
The other half or still I guess I would call them experiments but based on what we’ve seen in Rogersville where we have the most data we feel like those experiments are worthwhile and they’re targeted in areas that based on the geology we expect good economic returns but we need to gather more data to be sure.
And Steve your focus on the Rogersville area is it more because of the continuity of the play or is it because of the particular formations of this?  I mean what kind of has you focused on this area? Well one the initial results we got were very encouraging so that obviously attracted our attention.
But I think the reason that it’s a clear winner is the brittleness of the rock is pretty high there.
So higher silica content in the rock there than we have other places and that seems to be a key factor in having this technique increase recovery.
Okay.
And David for you – Dave or Steve as far as just a quick comment on services out there we continue to see more kind of an exodus from some of the gas plays the oil plays in this one and how that factors into kind of what your service forecasts are for the remainder of year? Well on the fracturing side which is the you know the build of the spend on a well our prices are pretty fixed for 2012 so I can’t tell you we’re going to benefit in the short term from any softening in the market.
On the rig side we do have a couple new rigs coming into the fleet in the next couple of months that have lower average day rates than what we’re currently spending so we’ll see a little bit of an improvement there.
And generally speaking we are very aware that they’re finally finally the leverage is shifting back to the producer community from the service community.
You know this decline has been really [inaudible] but the steep decline has only occurred over the course of the last six to eight weeks.
So we are very focused on getting more efficiencies and lower cost on that front.
Sure.
I can’t give you specific numbers on it right now.
Okay.
Very good.
And then the last one if I could it looked like you know the reallocation of the capital and the CapEx you know you did mentioned you know pulling back a little bit on the upstream side but it looks like kind of going forward on the midstream.
Do you still see you know around MLP and just I guess I would say the midstream in general the same opportunities as far as besides [inaudible] just continue to build out the midstream enabled to have the benefits around controlling your midstream and that’s kind of why we didn’t see any pullback on that side per se? Absolutely.
Even though there’s been a lot of talk about pulling back even with some of the discussions from a variety of others about the Marcellus and you know and moving some of their activities away from Marcellus et cetera all we’re talking about for the Marcellus at this point seems to be the rate of growth.
It is clearly I'm mean what we see and what others who participate here see is it is the most economic natural gas play in the country  and continues to be economic at these prices therefore it continues to need midstream.
So even though there are cash flow issues when prices drop that we all have to be focused on the economic attractiveness of the midstream continues to be there.
I absolutely agree with you Dave.
Thanks.
The next question is from Anne Cameron of BNP Paribas.
Hi good morning.
Just a question on your midstream.
Is there anything like now that you’re playing [inaudible] this quarter is there anything before or after that point until you do an IPO that prevents you from receiving bids on that from a third party? No there is nothing about that that prevents us from receiving bids having conversations et cetera.
Okay and are you still talking to any potential bidders or partners? I'm not sure that I want to comment on that if you don’t mind.
We’re certainly – we remain open-minded.
Maybe I can leave it like that.
We remain open-minded and – just so you know the only time a company gets committed on an MLP is – it’s not with the first filing of S1 right it’s when you ultimately finalize the entity.
So even a filing of an S1 would not change the things that I’ve just said about the corporation business et cetera.
Okay thank you.
That’s helpful.
And then just a question around your West Virginia liquids production.
The plant that Mark West is building in Logansport like that is going to increase your liquids yield on your Marcellus production.
So how much of your current NGL volumes are actually coming from West Virgina and what’s that’s going to do to them? Randy? Yeah most of our liquids production that comes out of the heron play that we’re currently – as we mentioned we have a JT skid that we process in Dodgeridge County that provides a 0.5 gallons per Mcf that is produced.
And when our plant comes on that will increase to 2 ½ gallons per volume produced in the wet area.
Okay thanks.
That’s July correct? Yes that’s more of the – right that is a mid-year thing so you will see a – we would expect you would see a big jump up in our liquids numbers once that plant comes on line.
Okay super.
Thank you very much.
And the next question is from Scott Hanold of RBC.
Yeah thanks good morning.
Good morning.
I guess you know Dave can I ask you you know what would it take for you guys to drop a rig in the Marcellus?  How I guess bad does gas have to be for you guys to make that decision? I don’t know.
That’s – you know we tested it against the current prices and by current I actually mean what we decided was the prudent thing to do was to test it against the lows that we hit last week.
And of course it could – clearly it could test those lows again.
It still makes a fair amount of sense to continue with our approach in the Marcellus.
We keep challenging ourselves on all of this stuff when the environment changes and I guess it’s maybe – maybe the safest thing I could say and most accurate thing I could say Scott is that so far what we’ve seen wouldn’t cause us to make those alterations and drop a rig.
So that’s – I mean certainly you can imagine probably you know at this point who wouldn’t be able to pick out a number and say here what if gas prices went to I don’t know what if gas prices went to zero and stayed that way forever.
How much would you like to drill?  Obviously then you wouldn’t.
But within reason we don’t see that being something that we’re concerned about.
We will look at the cash flows obviously.
I guess that would be the thing that would cause us to change something if we thought because of prices that cash flows were drying up enough that we had to make some other form of move and then we’d take a look at the rest of the operations to see what other forms of move was required.
But as it is I think we described with the heron that saves us enough so that it more than makes up for the cash flow reduction that we saw even at last weeks’ lows.
So it would certainly have to go below last week’s lows for us to be worried about the cash flow.
Okay so the way – so you know if I you know obviously things are moving quick and fast and some operators have made some deeper cuts.
At this point you’ve obviously made a decision in the heron but throwing numbers out there if gas was at $3 $3.50 on average through the end of 2013 it comes down to not necessarily a Marcellus economic question but it’s more of you know what your cash flow capabilities are and funding for that.
Is that a far way to view it? Right.
That’s exactly right which means these other things we’re talking about with regard to midstream monetization then factor into this heavily as well.
Okay understood.
A question on the production during the quarter.
I think you mentioned the exit rate was like 580 and I think your average during the quarter was 576.
It looks like you may have had a little bit of a backlog of wells to be brought on.
Is there a bit of a backlog there right now that – to be working through in the first part of this year? There is a bit of a backlog.
If you look at our earnings release you’ll see we have a larger number of frac stages complete but not online than we typically have.
The bulk of that increase is in our we area of the Marcellus where we’re waiting for the Mark West plant to be operational.
Normally we probably would not have fracked those wells yet given that that won’t be online for a few more months but because of the West Virginia regulations regarding reclamation of pits we needed to go ahead and frac those so we could reclaim the pits at the proper times.
That’s a temporary influence and it means we’ll have a lot of liquid-rich gas ready to go when the plant’s online.
Okay got it.
Lastly looking at your reserves you know obviously the adjustment the heron and CMB adjusted that number downward but you know just kind of stepping back and looking at it it seems like your reserve additions you were a bit light relative to prior years considering that your CapEx spend is you know was at at least those levels.
Can you give a little color on that? That’s mostly a function of where we decided to drill.
The bulk of our drilling was focused in areas where we already had lot of proved reserves on the books so there wasn’t a lot of – we weren’t really out in to new areas where there’s a lot of room to add new crude reserves.
Combined with the fact if you look at the prior couple years we had added large amounts of crude reserves.
I think it was just sort of the nature of the beast given where we decided to drill because when we decide to drill we focus on where we can get the best returns and really don’t factor in what the reserve addition impact is going to be.
This year as result it – we had lower additions.
We never manager at least as long as I’ve been here we have not managed to a reserve number.
We haven’t tried to adopt wells.
One reason – coming up with a development plan we have not tailored it to try to – with offsets in mind et cetera to create a particular growth pattern to the reserves.
We come up with the most economic development plan and then we let the reserves fall out the way they do.
Okay understood.
Obviously then when you’re focusing on drilling in more concentrated area you’re going to tend to get less reserve ads.
When you’re having more step outs you’re going to tend to get more reserve ads.
Okay.
Understood.
I appreciate that.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Gil Yang of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Good morning everyone.
I just wanted to follow up on this issue of the well backlog and talk about implications.
Are there any risk or what do you think is the risk of having these wells fracked and – because normally they’re just sitting there from the frac load in the well or what’s going on with those well? A lot of times we’ll flow them back to clean up the bulk of the water and then shut them in.
Sometimes we’ll leave the full load in.
If your questions about a concern of reservoir damage I guess I’d refer back – I think we talked about this a few years ago.
For a time there we actually were thinking that it might be beneficial to leave that load in based on some results we had seen.
We’ve backed off on that but what I can say is we have never seen any negative impact of keeping the frac load in the well for extended periods of time.
Okay.
It just doesn’t seem to damage as the Marcellus wells.
Okay.
Do you have any rules for how much volume you expect to get out of each stage? Well that varies by area.
I’d probably refer you to our type-curve information in the – on our website and you’ll be able to calculate by area what that is.
The tight curves are based on a 5 300 foot well so you can ratio that for different lengths.
Now was the buildup in the backlog in any way related to your willingness to sell the excess pipeline capacity? No.
Not at all.
It’s just that when you enter into those kinds of agreements you’re entering into long-term agreements and you’re kind of forecasting what you’re going to need several years out.
As you kind of grow into it the odds are you’re going to have excess capacity in the early years.
So we knew that going in.
Frankly when we looked at that particular line the one that we’ve been talking about having made some money on at the very tail end of 2011 the Elpaso 300 line we also felt more comfortable making that commitment because we have a sense that in the early days there was probably going to be a little bit of money to be made on that anyway.
Okay so given that you were… We do plan on growing into that capacity though just so you know.
Okay.
Can you give us an idea when you’ll grow into the capacity? Over the next – well actually I’m not sure if we have released this before but how far out do some of the contracts – what’s the longest term of the contracts where we – that we sold down to other people?  We didn’t go – we did no more than two years and one for three years small levels.
So no we intent to grow into that over that period of time.
Okay so the – in effect the transportation subsidy if you will from selling the – at a higher price than you paid for it will last – will last over the next two or three years and will… No the potential is there.
Obviously just following the basis markets you would assume it will tend to be higher in the winter than it will be in the summer and the – we’ve kind of layered those contracts in so that as Randy said there’s one that goes out for three years and then there’s another at – that goes to two.
So – and then there’s others that are shorter term than that to the point of monthly and even daily.
So it gradually goes away over the course of the next two to three years.
This is Phil Conti.
That’s why I tried to guide you to the – the $0.12 that I said add back to the run rate for the fourth quarter is the part that’s not subject to long-term deals.
That we’ll either do better than that or worse depending on what the market is like call it next winter.
Right so in a sense it should go from the current number $0.29 up to $0.41 over the next two or three years right? You should use $0.41 right now.
We have as I said some of it is under contract.
We bake that into that calculation and we’re just telling you that depending on what the market’s like when we go to sell that capacity next winter; it could be more or less than that $0.12 impact.
We think $0.12 is a good number for you to run with so add $0.12 to the $0.29.
Right okay.
We’ll continue to quantify how much was from the resale each quarter.
And we’ll try to come up with a way to be transparent on this stuff as we can because the reality is as we continue to layer in other transport contracts they’re going to have the same feature where you layer something into the long-term you’re not going to be using all of it in the early years because obviously the – unless you can guess perfectly correctly which I think everyone in our industry has demonstrated that we cannot do I think we join other industries in that inability.
But you have to choose on the two little capacity or probably error a little bit on the side of having more capacity.
And you’ll wind up with a little bit more so it means we’re probably going to have more of this excess as we enter into other contracts but that’s not to say that it’s going to be worth more than what we’re paying.
When we enter into it assuming that we’ll be able to cover the cost but not profit from it.
It just happens that there’s a lack of capacity going into some of the Northeastern cities right now.
Right.
And just a last question.
I missed the number how much liquid volume do you expect to come on when the JT skid comes online? Well I mentioned the 2 ½ gallons.
We hauld 120 million a day of capacity into that plant going into the summer.
And so again that number also does not include methane so that’s… And that’s not the JT.
You asked from the JT skids.
We use the JT skids to get the wet gas down to pipeline specs routinely.
So the increase that Randy’s talking about is actually when we don’t have to use those JT skids there anymore because we’re going to through that Mark West plant.
Okay.
Great thank you.
The next question is from Joseph Allman of JP Morgan.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Just a couple questions.
One the base decline for our heron production what would you estimate your base decline is? Well we gave the 6 Bcf decline next year from this year’s run rate and then another little bit over 3 for the  year after that.
Got you.
And then on the drop in the CBM possibles what’s the reason for that drop? I think some of that was economics driven.
Some of our CMB drilling at these really low gas prices it was hard to even keep those in the possible category.
Okay anything performance related or… No I mean we haven’t drilled in that field for a while so there is no new production information.
And in our PDPs there was no revision to those.
The performance there is at these prices is mediocre.
It’s just not any worse than it was a year ago or two years ago or five years ago.
It’s not that it’s that in this price environment it’s a hard time competing against Marcellus gas and associated gas.
Got you.
And then in terms of your booking per well in the Marcellus you know in your release you indicated that you’re PUD you booked at 6.3 B’s and that appears higher than year-end 2010 because I think in Pennsylvania you booked 6.3 B’s but in West Virginia you 4.7.
So it appears that you increased the per-well URs assuming shorter laterals actually.
So could you just clarify that and then this year you’ve booked the crude developed at 5.7 and how does that number compared to the year before? Well I think to your first question two factors came into play.
One was improving well performance and the other is mix.
We had higher percentage of PUDs in our very best area this year than we had last year.
Those two factors came into play.
Could you repeat the second part of your question? Just for the PRU developed you booked your PRU developed at 5.7 Bcfe per well.
What’s the comparable number in 2010? 4 ½ feet per well last year.
That’s helpful.
So in terms of the new frac design how many wells have you drilled so far using that new frac design? I believe it’s 27 plus or minus a couple.
Okay.
And then in terms of someone asked the services question are you having any issues or any concerns about just the logistics you know getting sand or any other materials? No.
No problems at all.
And then just on the comment on the Midstream you know you guys made a conscious decision to not sell it out right.
I’m assuming just the openness that you expressed is really just if you just get a really really great deal right? I have a feeling actually that that had to with the other alternative that’s long been on the table which is a joint venture.
But you’re right we’re open – look we’re in business to create value and so across the board anything that will create value to the shareholders is something we’re open to.
But the nature of the discussions that are going on in the past about the MLP were really more along the lines of various forms of joint ventures.
Right but I guess the other question I think was you know if I’m not mistaken was are you open to just selling it out right?  You said you’re open.
We’re open to anything.
Right okay.
The question for us is where do we get the most value for the shareholder.
Right but you’ve already gone through that who thinking process right so … We have but if you’re trying to give a hypothetical of somebody coming in with whatever number we think if a value and they’re adding a zero well then that changes our view.
I mean you can answer yes no when it’s value because that’s all in the eye of the beholder and we can’t predict whether us saying we’ll file an S1 or actually filing an S1 will alter the way other folks will view it.
I mean we’re very aware you look out in the market – you don’t have to look very far to find folks who announce the transaction and then that focuses the mind of somebody else and they react to it by putting a different – kind of sharpening their pencil.
That stuff happens and we don’t want to – we don’t want to stick our head in the sand and pretend it couldn’t happen here.
Sure but there’s no change in your thinking versus your last you know disclosure about – okay.
That’s exactly correct.
And you know and control of the assets I mean the ability for you to be able to grow your Marcellus at the pace that you want hinges on having some control of this? It has value to us.
I don’t know if I want to say hinges on because that kind of turns it into a black or white.
It has value to us.
Got you.
Okay.
And then lastly just what prices are you using for your CapEx budget for 2012? Well what we tested it at all the numbers that we gave you were based on a $3 or a little below $3 stripe for ‘12.
For the cash flow.
The budget was based on the cost per well and the number of wells.
Got you.
That’s what I mean.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Thanks guys.
The next question is from Craig Shere of Tuohy Brothers Hi.
Can you discuss the percent of your gas stream that is made up by methane and the potential upside from eventual industry ethane solution in light of Range’s announcement this morning that they secured a $0.145 per gallon transport cost on EPD’s [inaudible] Express Line to [inaudible] connections? Yes.
We announced what the percentage is of liquids that would double essentially with the take of ethane.
As we mentioned before the plant that will be coming online in Northern West Virginia will provide EQT the opportunity to extract ethane which would increase the amount of gallons from 2 ½ to 5.
We have the flexibility to make that decision economically and as we look out and make that decision if it is in EQT’s best interest to extra ethane from the price that we will receive then we’ll have the ability to do that.
And if we are in a position to sell it as methane as we today and blend it if that’s in the economic best interest then we’ll do that as well.
And we’re glad that pipelines are being built to move ethane.
That’s good but realistically if you look at the macro situation for ethane supply demand in the Marcellus and you read through the specifics of any kind of the agreements that people enter into you come up with ways to you extract methane – I’m sorry you extract ethane from the methane stream mainly because you have to to get down to pipelines.
It doesn’t really create a lot of value the way propane and butane et cetera do.
It’s you know if you can as Randy said if the pipelines are there and you can enter into transactions where you can have a little bit of money that’s great but the mindset we still thing – we still think the prudent mindset with ethane is to assume that you extract it when you have to to meet pipeline specs.
And if you can make a few bucks on top of that well then that’s obviously great.
But isn’t that given today’s pricing with $0.14 $0.15 per gallon transport costs isn’t that a premium to methane gas? Well first of all those things those pipes will be – start netting back that and fuel and loss it’s a pretty close call.
Okay so you think that at this point there’s marginal uplift potential from finding end markets for the ethane? Yes you have to enter into long-term term commitments.
The only thing firm about that kind of pipeline deal – and it’s the same with our gas price you know with the EL Paso expansion that we signed up it’s the same thing.
The only thing that’s certain is that you’ve got to write them checks.
Right.
And if you’re in a position where that you need to extract ethane to meet the pipeline specs then economics may not drive that decision.
EQT’s in a position right now to make that decision based on the economics.
Look wetter gas in this market is better than dryer gas but for the most part for all of us here half of the C2 and above roughly speaking is C2.
So if you want to be able to extract the value form the C3 and above you have to be able to do something with the C2.
So you know so I think net-net it’s attractive if you have wet enough gas to make – you just want to make sure you can let the gas flow.
And to let the gas flow it has to – you have to have little enough ethane in it that you can meet pipeline specs.
So in that context the all-in economics can work very well but the all-in economics don’t work because of the specifics of the ethane deal that’s just a means to an end.
Range has talked about the possibility of actually exporting from the East Coast within two to three years to Europe.
If there was a closer export opportunity to global markets would that change your outlook on the incremental value of ethane? Absolutely.
If the value is there we’re prepared to pursue it.
It’s just that that’s still not the driving force behind even the wet gas development.
It’s the C3s and above that’s the driving force.
But yeah absolutely.
If there’s the opportunity to make material uplift then we certainly would pursue that.
Okay.
Thank you very much for the discussion.
Our next question is from Ray Deacon from Brean Murray Carret &amp; Co.
Carret &amp; Co.
</strong> Yes hi.
I had a question for Phil.
I was wondering could you just talk about your borrowing base in light of the fact that a number of companies have talked about downward revisions to their borrowing lines.
My understanding is you have a corporate based facility right so there’s probably… Yes there’s not borrowing base at all.
It’s $1.5 billion without a borrowing base calculation ever done during the life of that facility.
It matures in 2014 so I think November 2014.
Carret &amp; Co.
</strong> Got it.
And what’s likely to happen with the IPO in the Midstream business?  Does part of that go with the Midstream or what’s… You’re just trying to get us in trouble with the SEC Ray.
I know you.
Carret &amp; Co.
</strong> Okay you can’t – and just in terms of the – to clarify the economics on the program in 2012 when you say you stress tested down to $3 strip do you include the impact of the 50% that’s hedged in that or no? Actually I’m happy to make a philosophical point.
When we look at the going economics of the program obviously we take the hedges into account.
But when we’re making marginal decisions on the margin every MMBTU of every incremental or detrimental MMBTU of natural gas should be priced at the market.
And I think that extends even if you were fully hedged and you dropped you can always tear up the contract.
You can cancel the contract.
Nobody has to know that the production’s there.
The accountants might have an issue with it.
But you can still collect the money on a hedge even if you were fully hedged and decided to cut production.
So the right way to make marginal decisions is based on the strip.
No matter how – what your hedge percentage is or isn’t it happens of course that the Huron decision on a piece of paper increases the percent hedge that we’ve got just because it takes the denominator down.
But we make these decisions on what we should do on the margin by looking at the market.
Carret &amp; Co.
</strong> Okay.
Got it makes sense.
And two quick questions for Randy.
I was wondering there’s been a lot of discussion that a lot of the major trunk lines that run through the Marcellus are going to fill up this year and given the cutbacks that people are announced could you just talk about kind of your – some of your long-term plans and how the backhaul might play in to that as an asset I guess? As you know EQT has always been proactive to be to procure capacity and one ensure flow assurance and number two to access markets downstream and have liquidity and I think we’ve demonstrated that with our capacity on Tennessee.
Going forward I mean as the development continues it will continue that strategy.
We still continue to see significant drilling and the need for capacity and that’s been our strategy going forward.
Carret &amp; Co.
</strong> Got it.
Okay.
I mean you don’t see [inaudible]? There will always be certain bottlenecks.
Now with respect to the backhaul again we look at accessing a variety of markets.
Obviously the most attractive markets in the Northeast but the backhaul again with the possibility of exporting LNG and accessing more meters we continue to look at utilizing our portfolio to access a variety of markets and that does include the backhauls into the Gulf Coast and forward hauls into the Northeast.
So we look at a variety of options that could give EQT one flow assurance into realize the best price for our product.
Initially our approach for the LNG export is the same as it is on an earlier participant that asked about ethane export.
We’re not prepared to enter into that type of arrangement right now but we like the fact that the backhaul gives us the opportunity to do so if we wind up deciding in the future that it is in fact an attractive thing to do.
Carret &amp; Co.
</strong> Got it.
Great.
Thanks.
And I was just curious with that JT skid I mean is there – would you be able to sell the two of those or is there much value there?  Would you continue to use them somewhere else? Well we would use those somewhere else.
As we continue to grow into our – in order to meet pipeline specs we’ll  have the flexibility omove those.
Carret &amp; Co.
</strong> Thank you.
Next we have a question from Steven Richardson of Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning.
A quick question on just a clarification.
Following up on the discussion of marking the strip to where it was last week and thinking about cash flow for this year as you think about 13 can you just clarify what you know how you think about this term living within our means and what that could mean?  Is the program here – is the plan here to try to keep this program flat year over year or how do you think about that in the light of a $3 thereabouts strip next year? Well practically it means cash flows from operations plus monetization of probably Midstream assets though really anything is open to – I don’t mean to sound – make it trite but everything if for sale at a price  and to the extent that these other two find some of our assets more interesting to them then they are to right now you know that becomes a monetization opportunity.
But I think practically we’d look at 2013 and say it’s operating cash flow plus those sorts of monetization.
And the stuff that’s nearer term of course is a continuation of some form of Midstream optimization.
Of course we chatted about what some of the ways that that would happen would be.
Right okay.
Thank you.
And so as you think about – I guess the other question was a clarification on the reduction of activity in the Huron.
You mentioned that there’s – well completions are going on this year.
Is there any other penalties or anything else in terms of shutting down that business that’s included in that capital number for 2012? No.
Actually the only missing – you know we’re chatting about – before the cal began so we’ll share it with the rest of you if you’re doing the math on the number of wells that we’re not doing – we’re not going to drill that were originally in the plan you would have to factor in that some of the wells that gets spud would have but no longer will.
But in the plan we’ve gotten spud late in 2012 they would have had a fair amount of their CapEx occurring in 2013.
So you’ve got the 130 – just one decision causes a reduction in CapEx in 2012 of $135 million which we stated and roughly let’s say $25 million in 2013 from those 2012 wells.
I mean you spud the well but you would have still had more work to do fracking at such that would have bleed into 2013.
Got it.
But you were – the previous plan were you already tending down in terms of activity so you would have held fewer wells waiting on completion at year end ’12 versus what you held in ’11? No because actually the ’12 plan the beginning ’12 plan was pretty similar to the ’11 plan.
We had – there’s no doubt that we trended down but the ’12 plan actually reflected a plateauing versus ’11.
Got it.
And the Huron program has a very short lag for SPUD to TIL so we don’t generate a large backlog in the Huron play.
Great.
Thank you very much.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Patrick Kane for any closing remarks.
Yes thank you everybody for participating and as I mentioned earlier the call will be available for seven days for replay.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the EQT Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
Now I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Patrick Kane.
Please go ahead.
Thanks (Emily).
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation's first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream Distribution and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Senior Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
In just a moment Phil will summarize our operational and financial results for the first quarter 2012 which were released this morning.
Then Dave will provide an update on our strategic operational matters.
Following Dave's remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to point out that today on our website we provided additional details on our cost per well and EUR per well at different well lengths.
Historically we have provided these estimates assuming a 5300-foot lateral which was our projected average.
As you will see the EUR per foot of lateral is unchanged and the cost per well is lower.
This call will be replayed for a 7-day period beginning at approximately 1.30 pm Eastern Time today.
The phone number for the replay is 412-317-0088.
The confirmation code is 10006583.
The call will also be available for seven days on our website.
But first I'd like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements related to future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company's results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today's press release under risk factors in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 which was filed with the SEC and updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are also filed with the SEC and available on our website.
Today's call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning's press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced first quarter 2012 earnings of $0.48 per diluted share a 42% decrease from EPS in the first quarter 2011.
The first quarter of 2012 included $6.2 million of expense associated with the retroactive portion of newly enacted Pennsylvania legislation imposing an impact fee on all wells drilled in the state including those wells drilled prior to 2012.
In addition there were two items that cumulatively added $36 million to our pre-tax income in the first of 2011 which distort the year-over-year comparisons.
Adjusting for those three items EPS was $0.50 this year compared to $0.60 in the first quarter last year or a 24% decrease.
The decrease in EPS comes as a result of lower natural gas prices on our un-hedged production lower operating income at Equitable Gas as a result of unusually warm weather and higher depletion rates at production.
All of which more than offset another solid operational quarter including record produced natural gas sales and another record in gathering volumes.
Operating cash flow which adjusts for those 2011 non-cash items as well as the non-cash impact of higher depletion rates decreased by 9% to $227 million for the quarter.
With that I will go into a little more detail by business segments starting with EQT production which continues to generate impressive growth in sales of produced natural gas.
The growth rate was 26% in the recently completed quarter over the first quarter of 2011.
That growth was primarily organic and was driven by sales from our Marcellus shale play which contributed nearly 50% of the volumes in the quarter.
As I mentioned gas prices were lower in the quarter.
The realized price at EQT production was $3.59 compared to $3.97 last year.
At the corporate level EQT received $4.84 per Mcf equivalent or 11% less than last year.
Produced liquids excluding ethane accounted for 6% of the volumes and 34% of the un-hedged revenues in the quarter.
Total operating expense of EQT production was higher quarter-over-quarter as a result of higher DD&amp;A production taxes and SG&amp;A.
The increase in the depletion rate was primarily due to an increase in cost to drill and complete wells the removal of some proved reserves due to lower natural gas prices at year end and the suspension of drilling activity in the Huron play.
As alluded to earlier in February 2012 the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania passed a natural gas impact fee.
The legislation which covers a significant portion of EQT’s Marcellus shale acreage imposes an manual fee for a period of 15 years on each well of drilled.
The impact fee adjust yearly based on three factors age of the well changes in the consumer price index and the average monthly NYMEX natural gas price.
Production taxes increased primarily due to the $8.2 million accrual in the first quarter of 2012 for this impact fee.
Again $6.2 million of that represents the retroactive portion of the fee for pre-2012 Marcellus wells.
Moving on to Midstream business operating income here was up 10% versus last year excluding the impacts from the sale of the Langley processing complex and the Big Sandy Pipeline and a reduction of non-income tax accruals in 2011.
This is consistent with the growth of gathered volumes and increased capacity based transmission charges.
Gathering net revenues increased by $10.3 million as gathering volumes increased by 21% while the average gathering rate declined by 4% driven by the Marcellus mix.
Transmission net revenues decreased by 13% to just under $23 million resulting from the loss of revenues associated with the Big Sandy Pipeline which we sold in the second quarter of 2011.
Adjusting for the Big Sandy revenues transmission net revenues increased by 24%.
Storage marketing and other net operating income was down about $6 million in the first quarter.
These results included $5.4 million in unrealized losses related to our storage inventory and a steeper slope in the front end of the near term natural gas curve.
Because we have financial hedges associated with those inventories we expect to have unrealized gains that will offset these unrealized losses over time.
Given current market conditions we estimate that full year 2012 net revenues in storage marketing and other will be approximately $50 million to $60 million.
Net operating expenses at Midstream were slightly higher quarter-over-quarter excluding the impact of the previously mentioned non-income tax adjustments.
For unit gathering and compression expense again excluding the non-income tax adjustments was down 7% to $0.28 per Mcf equivalent as a result of higher throughput while maintaining our cost structure.
And then finally on the Midstream on February 13 2012 EQT Midstream Partners' limited partnership filed a registration statement with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission as we move forward on forming an MLP.
Moving on to distribution operating income distribution was down 31% versus the first quarter last year.
According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or NOAA the first quarter of 2012 was the warmest first quarter period on record in the service territory for Equitable Gas 24% warmer than last year when measured by heating degree days.
As a result total net operating revenues for the first quarter 2012 were 19% lower while operating expenses were down slightly excluding the prior year tax adjustments.
Basically for each 100 heating degree day change in weather going to winter at Equitable Gas our distribution margins change by about $2 million.
So the warmer weather in the quarter negatively impacted our EPS by about $0.05 per share versus normal weather and about $0.06 per share versus last year.
Moving on to 2012 guidance today we reiterated our production sales forecast for full year 2012 of between 250 and 255 Bcf equivalent or 30% higher than last year.
Our forecasts are intended to represent our realistic projection factoring in some negative impacts from inevitable unplanned delays or disruptions such as delays in Midstream projects permit delays weather impacts etcetera.
As a result of the lower forecast of natural gas prices for our un-hedged volumes we are decreasing our operating cash flow estimate for 2012 to approximately $800 million.
At the same time as a result of our lower well cost estimates we are also lowering our 2012 CapEx estimates by $100 million to $1.365 billion.
We exited the quarter with $745 million in cash on the balance sheet no short-term debt including no cash frauds under our $1.5 billion credit facility.
And so we remain in a great position as far as liquidity growth for 2012.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Dave Porges.
Thank you Phil.
As we have previously communicated our objective of maximizing shareholder value is unchanged by changes in the environment in which we operate.
The strategy accomplishing this the monetization of our asset base and prudent pursuit of investment opportunities while living within our means is also unchanged.
Our tactics however can and must change when circumstances warrant.
In an environment in which natural gas prices are down sharply we have already made tough decision but you have January suspension of Huron drilling cutting CapEx by about $130 million.
We are focusing our drilling on our highest return opportunities with nearly 75% of our 2012 Marcellus wells being drilled in either our highest EUR areas or in the more liquids-rich portion of our West Virginia acreage.
With the liquids uplift the returns of the West Virginia wells are similar to more prolific dry gas wells in Pennsylvania.
There is always a lag between making such decisions and having those changes show up with a cash register but we are getting some immediate benefits from reducing our service cost as gas prices are declining.
The cost of a 5300-foot well is down to $6.1 million from $6.7 million last year mainly due to those reductions.
This will impact our 2012 CapEx but will now show up in our depletion rate until next year just as last year's increases hit this year's depletion.
Our online after-tax IRR estimate is now 29% at the current NYMEX five-year strip of 366 per MMBtu and 25% at a flat $3 NYMEX.
Therefore it is clear to us that investments in our Marcellus play remain attractive even at current prices.
So they are obviously not as attractive as they would be in higher prices.
We believe that prices will begin moving up once the current storage balance is worked off however (the long) that takes but are structuring our business so that they can thrive in an environment which prices never get above where say the back end of the curve currently sits.
Practically this means that we will continue to prioritize our spending rigorously and focus on improvements in cost structure whether they come from different ways of doing things or reduction at service costs.
So this heightened focus has already resulted in some reductions in activity level notably the Huron decision.
I do want to reiterate what Phil mentioned about the volume guides for the year that is the fact that our growth versus same quarter last year is below our annual guidance is not a result of changes in activities rather it's just the nature of the business given multi-well pads large compressor stations etcetera.
Note this is little lumpy.
We also note that the three higher sequential growth rates in EQT's history in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the first two quarters of 2011.
So the current comparisons are a little tougher than they will be later in the year.
As for cash flow we are aware that projections are lower than they were a few months ago due largely to decline in natural gas prices but the reduction in well cost keeps our CapEx forecast in line with this lower cash flow even at a constant activity level.
We will of course continually monitor market conditions and adapt our tactics accordingly.
In 2012 we are investing our operating cash flow plus also utilizing some of our other available capital.
This other capital includes cash from our investment grade debt issuance completed in late 2011 and further monetizing Midstream assets by forming in MLP.
As Phil mentioned on February 13 2012 we filed the initial S1 for the MLP but we recognize that this nearly starts the review process with the SEC.
To remind you the advantages of EQT shareholder – to EQT shareholders of forming an MLP includes maintaining operational control of where when and to what specs gathering is built access to an ongoing source of low cost capital and participation in any MLP distribution growth.
Of course a publicly traded currency would also provide a market view of the value of the MLP's assets.
Moving on to some other operational matters as we told on the last call Mark West is building a processing plant to serve our West Virginia wells.
This plant was originally scheduled to be up and running by mid-year.
However due to a number of delays that they experienced in permitting and construction the project is now scheduled to be complete in the first quarter.
We are looking into work arounds that would improve on this but believe that we will meet our production sales volume targets even with the current schedule.
The real impact of this is not on the overall volumes but rather that additional margins from the revenue uplift expected from liquids extraction FF plant will obviously being delayed somewhat.
We are also working to a short adequate processing and transportation capacity to support our Marcellus growth beyond this year.
We were an anchor tenant taking 150 000 dekatherms per day on Spectra Energy's Texas Eastern Pipeline expansion to Eastern Pennsylvania and Mid-Atlantic markets plus 150 000 dekatherms per day of backhaul runs.
The expansion is expected to be complete by the end of 2014.
And we are in the process of securing additional processing capacity to enable further growth from our wet Marcellus acreage.
In summary EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource via accelerating the monetization of our reserves and other opportunities.
We continue to be focused on earning the highest possible returns from our investments and they are doing what we should to increase the value of your shares.
We will say disciplined and live within our means investing our available cash from operations and from future monetizations as appropriate.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and appreciate we’ll continue to.
Thank you Dave.
That concludes the comments portion of the call.
(Emily) can we please now open the call for questions? We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from Neal Dingmann of SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
First guys can you address maybe just a different source that you are seeing going forward? And then secondly as you sign – you talked about the MarkWest deal that likely signed up how do you perceive sort of the infrastructure costs going forward if that deal was successfully completed? So we talk about ones changes going forward you are talking about on the infrastructure side? Correct.
Randy you want to comment on where you see infrastructure heading?  Well with respect to the pricing we haven’t seen a great deal of softening in the market from that standpoint but in terms of the projects EQT is working towards we continue to be on time on budget with our Sunrise expansion and in building up the infrastructure that connect to the plant.
And as Dave alluded to we are looking in the interim to other options as well to move to get our gas process.
We are obviously going to see average gathering rates decline even in the constant cost environment just as the mix continues to move towards the Marcellus but we've mentioned in the past that the unit rates for Marcellus are roughly half that for Huron.
So as the mix keeps moving we will continue to see average declines even without a – because of mix change along.
Okay.
And then just kind of going forward one last question just on the improved sort of techniques you are continuing to see as far as what are you seeing that as far as opportunities why just on a percentage does that continue to expand and maybe cost that you see on that going forward.
Are you able to as you continue to do more of these new processes bring down the cost a bit on that completion? Yeah I think you’re talking about production.
So I will turn that over to Steve.
I assume you are speaking about completion techniques in particular?  Yeah exactly Steve.
Yeah.
Well we continue to really feel good about the results we are seeing with the new frac techniques specifically in the more brittle areas like we talked about.
I think roughly 44% of our program this year we expect to use the new technique.
And I think that benefits pretty well from the reduced service costs we are seeing.
So that’s been a big benefit as well that the cost for that new technique could come down along with the overall costs.
And then when your peers talked about just the tighter denser space I mean is that something Steve that also that you are looking into and do you assume it look like that they talked about increase rates based on that is that something that you’re looking at doing as well?  Well I guess I would say we pioneered that.
Yeah that’s what we are talking about.
Yeah that's what we are talking about year and a half.
I guess what I'm asked to Steve is as you continue to sort of on these specs do that is that going to be basically majority I mean right now it's still I don’t know what percent of your total program that is.
I am just wondering if that will become sort of more mainstream here in the next letter part of this year for you?  Well I think we still believe that it’s going to be location specific based on the brittleness of the rock.
And our current estimate is that for 2012 44% of our 132 wells will use that technique.
Well okay.
In some of the cases in certain pricing environment it doesn't make sense and other pricing environment it does make more sense.
So depending on where natural gas prices go there is kind of a gray area either somewhere it just seems that it basically always make sense.
Others were basically seems that it never make sense so on some place where it's little bit more sensitive to current economics.
So you can see that percentage moving up of that.
Though I would say and I think I look at the things that folks are doing.
They keep working on ways to come up with the optical completion technique for each of those – for each of the areas on which we are working whether it's the tighter spacing which again we've been talking about for a – that's what we are talking about now we talk about (specs) that's what we've been talking about for the last year and a half or thereabout or other techniques.
No it still sounds like that combined with your long laterals you are really seeing some of the best results out there.
Thank you.
But we'll keep working on ever working on trying to get better and better.
Perfect thank you.
Our next question comes from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thanks.
Good morning.
A question for you on your drilling program in the Marcellus obviously the gas price where they are I guess you made the case that your economics are still good.
And so I guess that implies at this point in time you are not going to make a change to your overall development program.
But can you talk to the extent where you're shifting or you have the capability of shifting activity more to liquids from the drier gas parts of the plane.
How much of that is actually going on at this point in time? What we are shifting to the extent that we can obviously we only get the uplift and this is true for everybody goes not just does.
We only get the uplift when you're actually able to extract enough of the liquids.
We get a certain amount of the uplift just from the so called JT skids for you.
But the mainly design just give you a pipeline quality gas of its I guess the tastes where that can put you over into that making it more economic that I'm more prolific dry gas well.
But what we're really focusing on more is the ability to link the development program with the processing capability.
So we're moving in that direction as much as we – as much as we can but we are marrying the production activities with the Midstream activities.
Sort of the delay in the MarkWest plant kind of I guess to a certain extent limit your ability to really focus a little bit more efforts in those areas.
Not right now because realistically a well that we spend right now it does affect cash flows in 2012 right I don't want we mentioned that in the prepared remarks and that's true.
But those are on wells that hit over to the spot.
For the decisions that we are making now to spot wells the presumption is that we have a reason to believe those – that plan will be upon running and preferably some of the increased capacity that we made reference to would be ready as well because there is a lag between the decision to spot now comes online.
So now I wouldn't say that it's – that client doesn't impact the decisions that we're making on where the drill right now that delay there impacts really third quarter cash flows.
Okay.
And then maybe kind of referring to may be the early part of the question I had so if you're looking to the back half of '12 and the early '13 I'm not sure what you are assuming for gas prices.
But are you making focused effort with MarkWest expect to be online in 2013 that you are going to drill in the higher liquids areas and can you be pretty fluid with that program if need be? Yeah but we work with any number of process we just want to get our – the liquid extract from the gas and we get the revenue uplift from the propane and butane.
Okay how much of it? Just one company I mean we talked about one company that's one plant in North and West Virginia but more broadly yes we are as we look ahead we are looking at making sure that we can as we said that we can continue to focus on both the areas that are more liquid rich amongst our acreage as well as the once that are more prolific which really needs the dry gas so that are – that have the best economic.
Yeah if memory serves me that plant specifically with MarkWest that we are referring to is a $100 million a day.
Our capacity on that would have been is actually is $120 million a day.
Is a $120 million a day? Okay.
And then how much of an impact will that shift have or let me ask you the question this way when that plant comes online how much of an annualized basis improvement would you get in pricing? We have to be able to do the answer for that probably the best opportunity.
Part of the Mcf basis the liquids uplift gives us about $2.50 increase.
At today's price? At today's prices.
Okay alright.
And that's $2.50 per...
Per Mcf.
Per Mcf – on an Mcf basis okay.
One last quick question if I could you Phil I think you mentioned what your cash balance at the end of the year I apologize I missed that could you give us? At the end of the first quarter by the way I'm sorry $7.45 was at the end of the first quarter.
Yeah okay $7.45 thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Anne Cameron of BNP Paribas.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Not to be the dead horse on the West Virginia wet gas issue but what is your current West Virginia wet gas production from the Marcellus on an Mcfe basis? Yeah we don't provide the breakout on Marcellus by state.
Okay.
So I guess my – what I am driving at is when the MarkWest plant does come online is a 100 net enough to handle all of our wet gas production and how much more processing do you need? Well as we keep growing we'll need more and more and that's we and we are currently working on and you are well into development what those alternatives are to keep processing more than the 120.
Okay.
And do you have capacity in the second mobile plant? Maybe you talk about it… Yeah I mean maybe we are – we have a firm right to a $120 million a day of that plant and MarkWest is putting in a larger plant and we are in discussions with them and others about additional.
I would reference on capacity on the plate as well though that as we said before we've been proactive with adding a $100 million a day of capacity.
We'll have a total of $100 million out of our Dodgeridge County and at the year end at our other wet area and that's another $100 million a day and with our Sunrise project we've adequate residue gas to move that gas to market.
So we had been proactive in doing that and when the plant comes on we're going to be prepared to move the product going forward.
So as they believe we're working toward getting additional processing capacity at this time.
We are not concerned about that overtime.
The issue is when plants coming it can move things by a quarter here and there that's the issue it's the near-term cash flow forecast not the longer term strategy that gets impacted.
Okay thanks.
And that $2.50 uplift does that correspond to 1.8 gallons per Mcf excluding in the ethane? Yes.
Is that about right? Yeah.
And the $2.50 net of processing fees or is it growth of processing fees? It was net.
Okay got it thanks.
And then in terms of the ethane can you mix ethane indefinitely from what you can see right now into the gas stream.
Well Anne this is Randy.
From what we can see right now we have the adequate mix to mixed the dry to meet our pipeline specs and so as we said previously we'll make the decision whether it take the ethane based on economic conditions not on pipeline quality issue.
What kind of infrastructure would be involved in moving that ethane either to the enterprise line or to the Mariner East project if you did the side to extract it? Well our commercial arrangement at MarkWest provides the option that they would extract the ethane and move it.
Yeah so really the fact what it means it would take from that plant and would really just I think shift the whole thing up to their one of the fractionation facilities.
So really that infrastructure already exists.
It just a question on making the determination that it's economical to extract the ethane.
Okay got it.
And then just a totally separate question which you may or may not be able to answer given that your docs are still sitting with the SEC.
The strategy for the MLP like really is the gain plant to gross third-party volumes with that business or is it really mostly just to process Equity Gas and like how….
What our General Counsel is looking at is shaking our hands.
Oh (indiscernible) okay.
We don't want to say anything that would make you more likely to buy the unit.
So… Okay okay I'll backup.
Sorry guys.
Alright thank you.
That's it from me.
The next question comes from Michael Hall of Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I guess couple of remaining one from me.
May I talk about Northeast strategy that changing despite current environment which make sense.
But are there any other tactics that you are kind of reviewing currently that we haven't really talked about outside of just drilling additional liquid rich wells.
Any other sorts of cost saving initiatives or things along those lines that are currently under consideration? Yeah.
We certainly continue to look at ways to improve cost structure and of course before I alluded to production but the same thing is to a midstream continuing to improve cost structure.
I am not sure I feel comfortable getting into the things that are simply in the development stage because we often look at different alternatives and yet test them out you see what works and doesn’t.
Got it.
And I guess the other one is have you reviewed or do you continue to review your legacy assets for any sort of Utica exposure I know in the past expense likely to just be in a dry windows.
Is there any indication as we can better understand the windows potentially some wet gas and that as well or is there no real change there? Thanks.
Not really I mean maybe there is but really hadn’t been much change but we haven't quietly spent too much on focusing on that.
The large part of those which is also deeper in Pennsylvania than it is in Ohio.
So our approach on the Utica is still pretty much what it was for our Pennsylvania acreage which is – there is going to come a time where it make sense to drill down basically from the same pads that were using for the Marcellus.
Because that will obviously involve an improved cost structure to be able to use all the same pads and well roads and compressor stations etcetera.
So that will be settled – when we get to that point time that will show cost structure improvements too.
Okay.
That’s all I have.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Ray Deacon of Brean Murray.
Please go ahead.
Ray you there? Mr.
Deacon your line is live.
We'll move on to our next question.
(Operator Instructions) At the time we'll take a question from Craig Shere Tuohy Brothers.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Couple of follow ups on the frac geometry from Neal's question.
First if I remember correctly when you'll first announce that it was said that I might add maybe a million dollar per well and cost but you are obviously noting that services cost are lower currently so that's really helping a lot.
First part do you have an updated figure for how much more cost per well to imply the new geometry and to the extent Dave we commented some of the new geometry was economic in some cases of less optimal brittleness based entirely on commodity prices.
So when you think about issues of hedging and when you think about commodity prices at their extremes.
How does that kind of play into any expansion of this program? On the first part cost for the new frac – the additional cost per well is about $1.2 million for the 5 300 feet and that's down from $1.4 million previously.
On the price side I just generally speaking say that it the areas where it's kind of a gray area whether it makes sense or not.
They tend to look better when prices go up.
So yeah I mean if you look at this is – if you want to look at any company as say one thing that would have been if there is a more than you say it's almost if there is the call options embedded price – long call options on gas price.
We cannot to really factor that into much in the hedging because that's I mean such a long – there is a longer term play.
But you're right it does – it does suggest if prices are higher that you had more exposure.
So you may that is true but I don’t know I said we formally corporate that where when we are looking at our hedging strategy.
For the most part the hedging strategy is designed not to pick prices but to make sure in the cash flow state a reasonable level.
So that we can optimally size our business right so we are at the cash flows don’t get jerked around so much that you're constantly trying to get fewer rigs or more rigs fewer crews or more crews.
Right.
So cash flow certainty not necessarily rate of return certainty particularly at low gas prices.
When you make this decision are you basing it more on like the current strip of 12 months? Are you basing it on the next 10 years of strips? Well generally just ballpark we are typically within more of a five-year strip but if the price – I think you'd say in theory and we do try to apply some of this.
But you try to hedge not to guess prices but when certainty about price would alter the behavior or when uncertainty about price would alter the behavior.
So I wouldn’t say that we don’t take returns into our account back.
I’d say if there is projects were buy it’s an attractive investment if prices are at the current level but prices decline it's not attractive anymore but that's the time we say yes best decision is to go ahead and make the investment but also hedge.
I got it.
Okay it doesn’t sound simple but it sounds like you have a lot on your plate to manage the portfolio there.
No but I think a lot of hedging is that right it's more or like I guess it's expected utility as suppose to expected value is what we’re looking at.
It’s kind of the same as what you’re looking at the life insurance right? So nobody buys life insurance hoping that it pays off.
Sure.
Well at least start soon.
Well hopefully well we get out of this throughout with gas prices and you can enjoy the benefits of the entire portfolio.
Yeah again we do think that we need to be structuring our business and what we pursue is for investment opportunities with a relatively conservative gas price in mind not to say this one is influenced by the current storage situation.
But that – it’s getting more economical to drill for natural gas at least in our base in the Marcellus but I guess we can see the other bases and we need to bear that in mind what we’re forecasting our dividends.
Understood.
I appreciate all the color.
Thank you.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you for everybody for participating and we’ll look forward to doing this again in three months.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the EQT Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Patrick Kane.
Mr.
Kane Please go ahead.
Thanks Amy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation’s second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream Distribution and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Senior Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a seven-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
The phone number for the replay is 412-317-0088.
The confirmation code is 10006595.
The call will also be replayed for seven days on our website.
As you already know we successfully completed an IPO of EQT Midstream Partners earlier this month.
Before we review this quarter’s results I want to remind you that there was no impact to our second quarter results as the IPO did not close until July 2.
next quarter our EQT results will include the results of EQT Midstream Partners on a consolidated basis.
Below in that income line in the statement of consolidated income EQT will present the amount of net income attributable to the public unitholders under the caption “net income attributable to non-controlling interest”.
Cash distributions from the partnership to the non-controlling interest will be reflected in the financing section of EQT’s statement of cash flows as a use of cash.
The cash distributions to the non-controlling interest will not impact the consolidated cash flows provided by the operating activities or cash flows from investing activities.
There will also be a separate press release 10-Q and conference call to detail EQT Midstream Partners third quarter results.
In just a moment Phil will summarize our operational and financial results for the second quarter 2012 which were released this morning.
Then Dave will provide an update on our strategic operational matters.
Following Dave’s remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will all be available to answer your questions.
But first as usual I’d like to remind you that today’s call may contain forward-looking statements related to future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today’s press release and under Risk Factors in the company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 filed with the SEC as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are on file with the SEC and are available on our website.
Today’s call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures please refer to this morning’s press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Phil? Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced second quarter 2012 earnings of $0.21 per diluted share a $0.30 decrease from adjusted EPS in the second quarter 2011.
Two price related items together reduced EQT production revenues by $15.3 million or $0.07 per share this quarter one item was related to gas price put that should have been recognized in 2010 and 2011 resulting in a non-cash revenue reduction of $8.2 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The other was a $7.1 million increase in third-party gathering processing and transmission revenue deductions from the sale of unused firm capacity at rates below what we are paying and I will give you some more on that in a minute.
Operating cash flow in the quarter of approximately $160 million decreased by 14% versus cash flow in the second quarter of 2011.
Other than that the operating results this quarter are fairly straightforward.
In short we had another strong operating quarter at EQT.
Production and sales volumes were 28% higher than last year and a 11% higher than in the first quarter this year.
NGL volumes were 10% higher than the last year and 8% higher than in the first quarter and midstream gathering volumes were 24% higher than last year and 9% higher than in the first quarter.
However commodity prices were significantly lower than last year and that more than overwhelmed our operational progress.
I would discuss that in a bit more detail in the segment results starting with EQT Production where sales volumes continued to grow as planned.
As I mentioned production volumes were 28% higher and that growth was driven by a 74% increase in sales from our Marcellus Shale play.
We do we did hit two significant Marcellus milestones this quarter.
First we turned our 200 Marcellus horizontal well online and second our Marcellus production accounted for over half of our total volumes for the first time hitting 54% of the total in the quarter.
Offsetting the impact of volume growth however the realized price at EQT Production was $2.62 for Mcfe compared to $4.16 last year or about 37% lower.
At the corporate level EQT received $3.83 per Mcfe compared to $5.60 received last year.
NYMEX gas prices basis and liquid revenues were all lower in the quarter somewhat offset by our natural gas hedges which contributed about $85 million to revenue in the second quarter.
The two price related items that I mentioned upfront lowered both the EQT production and EQT corporate price in the second quarter 2012 by a combined 26% per Mcfe.
The revenue deduction for third-party gathering processing and transportation to arrive at those realized prices was $0.56 for the second quarter and you can see that in the table in this morning's press release.
That $0.56 includes $0.12 per Mcfe resulting from the company's inability in the quarter to resell it unused contracted capacity on the recently completed El Paso 300 line at unit rates at or above what we currently pay under the existing agreement with El Paso.
Put another way by subtracting that $0.12 from the $0.56 reported for the second quarter 2012 a reasonable per unit run rate for the deduction for third-party gathering processing and transportation would be approximately $0.44 per Mcfe.
Going forward the run rate will vary from – we think $0.40 to $0.045 and the actual reported rate each quarter will be impacted positively or negatively depending on the market rates we receive for the short-term resale of our 300 line capacity that is not currently reserved for EQT production or that is not currently under long-term resale contracts with third parties.
The value of the unused capacity will vary seasonally and to illustrate that point in the first quarter of 2012 the revenue deduction for third-party gathering processing and transportation was actually offset positively by about $0.12 from the run rate as a result of sales of unused capacity at rates above our cost.
We expect to continue to see this volatility prospectively as we continue to contract for capacity to move production and sales volumes to market and then sell the unused portion as those volumes ramp up.
As such we will quantify the impact each quarter.
So that you can see the underlying trend of the production revenue deductions more clearly.
Produced NGL volumes mainly from our liquids-rich Huron and West Virginia Marcellus plays were 10% higher than last year and account for 6% of the volumes in the quarter.
As a reminder we do not include ethane in this calculation as it is currently mostly sold as an ethane.
If we included ethane the percentage of liquids produced would approximately double.
Total operating expenses at EQT Production were higher quarter-over-quarter as a result of higher DD&amp;A LOE and production taxes per unit LOE excluding production taxes was down 14% to $0.19 per Mcf in the quarter that decrease was a result of producing higher volumes while maintaining our cost structure that is already among the best in the industry.
Production taxes were also lower on a unit basis at $0.17 per Mcfe versus $0.20 last year this time due to lower prices in the second quarter of 2012 versus the second quarter of 2011.
Moving on to midstream results in the second quarter operating income here was up 14% consistent with the growth of gathered volumes and increased capacity-based transmission charges.
Gathering net revenues increased by $10.9 million as gathering volumes increased by 24% somewhat offset by the average gathering rate which declined by 5% due to the increase in Marcellus gathered volumes was due to get charged the lower rate.
As Marcellus production continues to grow as a percent of our total production mix the average gathering rate paid by EQT production will continue to decline.
However EQT Midstream margins will continue to be strong that the per unit midstream expenses from Marcellus production is also lower than our current average.
Midstream transmission net revenues also increased by 31% in the quarter after adjusting for $8.1 million of Big Sandy revenues recorded last year and we’re still on Big Sandy.
Storage marketing and other net operating revenues was up about $2.7 million in the second quarter.
As has been mentioned before the storage and marketing part of the midstream business relies on natural gas price volatility and seasonal spreads in the forward curve and those have continued to deteriorate.
Given current marketing conditions we now estimate that full year 2012 net revenues and storage marketing and other will total approximately $50 million.
Net operating expenses at midstream were up quarter-over-quarter consistent with the growth of the business per unit gathering and transmission expense was flat as we maintained our cost structure.
Finally a little bit of guidance today we did reiterate our production sales forecast for full year 2012 of between 250 Bcfe and 255 Bcfe or approximately 30% higher than 2011.
We expect that third quarter 2012 production sales will obviously be approximately 66 Bcfe.
Based on our forecast we are reiterating our operating cash flow estimate for 2012 of approximately $800 million using the current strip.
We are also tweaking our production CapEx forecast to $900 million from $965 million and our total company CapEx forecast to $1.3 billion from $1.365 billion to reflect year-to-date actual investments and our second half investing plans.
Our plan is still to drill 132 Marcellus wells in 2012.
We closed the quarter with approximately $515 million in cash on hand and subsequent to quarter end we did receive $232 million in proceeds from the IPO of EQT Midstream Partners which Dave will discuss momentarily.
We continue to have full availability under our $1.5 billion credit facility which was recently expanded through November 2016.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave Porges.
Thank you Phil.
As I’ve previously communicated our objective of maximizing shareholder value is unchanged by changes in the environment in which we operate.
The strategy accomplishing the amortization of our asset base and prudent pursuit of investment opportunities while living within our means is also unchanged.
Of course the specifics of these monetizations the assets the timing the form are very much affected by market conditions.
We took another major step forward this month with the successful IPO of EQT Midstream Partners LP.
Including the impact of the underwriters over allotment option which was fully exercised EQT Midstream sold about 40% of the limited partnership units to the public with the units pricing on-schedule and at the top of the indicated price range.
These units trade on the New York Stock Exchange using the ticker EQM.
We believe EQM will provide us with ongoing access to capital at relatively low cost consistent with the steady cash flows generated by those midstream assets.
As we were on our multi-city MLP IPO roadshow we met with many of our existing EQT shareholders and many of our new EQM unit holders.
Both groups of equity owners including those now owning both securities recognized the symbiotic relationship between EQT and EQM.
The capital raised in this offering will be redeployed to accelerate the development of our vast Marcellus acreage position.
This acceleration will lead to increased sales of produced volumes and also increased gathering and transmission volumes and cash flow for EQT Midstream and EQM.
This increase in Midstream cash flow drives MLP unitholder returns and will help increase the amount of capital available through additional midstream sales of assets from EQT to EQM so-called dropdown.
For the time being we anticipate that most large Midstream investments will be made and EQT level.
With most of the EQM capital investments coming in the form of purchases from EQT.
We do anticipate that there will be some direct construction of facilities at the EQM level but we do not want too much of EQM’s capital tied up in investments that are not yet generating cash flow.
Therefore the basic model is to build most of the facilities at the EQT level until EQM is larger.
Conceptually our current construct is that over time EQT’s capital expenditures in the midstream will roughly equal proceeds from sales to EQM.
As EQM grows more of the capital expenditures related to midstream construction will be made inside EQM.
We believe that this approach will allow us to continue to benefit from a key attribute of the MLP structure in that we retain operational control so that we make sure that we have gathering capacity where and when we need it to achieve our development targets.
Moving on to other operational matters as we told you on the last call MarkWest is building a processing plant to serve our West Virginia wells.
This plant construction is moving along and we still anticipate completion by year-end.
This is later than originally anticipated but the schedule has remained the same since our last quarterly update.
Since that last call EQT and MarkWest have also developed an interim solution using some existing and some new assets to provide EQT with some cryogenic processing until the originally contracted facilities are turned in line.
This capacity roughly equivalent to 40 million cubic feet per day are a third of contractual capacity came online late last week.
As we also mentioned in the last call our production sales volume target remain the same even with the current schedule for the full plant that we will obviously not have as higher percentage of natural gas liquids in that full-year total as originally anticipated.
Still this interim solution will help us gain back some of the liquids uplift that was considered lost due to the delay.
As you saw in this morning’s press release we reiterated our production sales volume guidance.
New production sales volume is up by 11% over the first quarter and expect to grow at a similar sequential rate in the third and fourth quarters.
I mentioned in the last call that growth rates versus same quarter prior year can vary due to the inherent lumpiness of how we add volumes.
As an example since the beginning of 2010 our sequential growth rates probably a better way to capture this particular issue averaged about 8%.
That is an average quarter had volumes about 8% higher than the immediately preceding quarter.
However these sequential growth rates range from just over 3% to nearly 14%.
This lumpiness is largely the result of a combination of pad drilling and the timing of infrastructure [apps].
Knowing all that we're right on plan year-to-date and confident that we will hit our targets.
To give you a specific example to speak to this we are just now bringing online a 10 well pad in Greene County.
On average the wells on this pad will have initial flow rates of about 10 to 12 billion cubic feet per day each.
So we expect that this will be our first 100 million per day pad.
Typically turn the wells on such pads in line one at a time and we will be well into August before all 10 wells on this pad are flowing.
You can expect that over the next couple of years we will continue to have periods during which volumes more or less plateau for a period of time and then surge with the turning in line of a multi-well pad or a new infrastructure project.
Moving on to other matters earlier this month EQT announced the launch of pilot program to begin converting drilling rigs to LNG liquefied natural gas displacing the diesel used to power equipment at the well site.
EQT is the first operator in the Marcellus to convert a diesel rig to LNG which will provide a cleaner burning alternative fuel for the regions drilling operations.
However we do believe that this is going to quickly become more commonplace throughout the industry and that will improve the logistics of getting natural gas of the rigs for all of us.
EQTs initial rig conversion is now operating in northern West Virginia and pending evaluation of the pilot program we hope to convert additional rigs in the West Virginia and Pennsylvania.
The LNG being used for EQT's pilot program is produced from Marcellus natural gas reserves and is about 40% less expensive than diesel.
The use of LNG also provides another means of adding to the use of natural gas and we do expect that there will be circumstances in which we will be able to improve the economics further by using field gas.
We are proud to be a leader in reducing the environmental impacts related to drilling.
Along with safety protection of the environment is top of mind for our employees contractors and of course communities.
Compared to diesel natural gas emits between 20% and 30% less carbon dioxide and has a fraction of the emissions of nitrogen oxide sulfur oxides and particulates.
In summary EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by accelerating the monetization of our reserves and other opportunities.
We continue to be focused on earning the highest possible returns from our investments and are doing what we should to increase the value of your shares.
We will stay disciplined and live within our means investing our available cash flow from operations and from future monetizations.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and appreciate continued support.
Pat? Thanks Dave.
That concludes the prepared portion of the call.
Amy could you please open the line for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Go ahead please.
Good morning guys.
Just a couple questions first just is you alluded to on the dropdowns I guess I was just wondering timing how soon could we begin to see some of those dropdowns and just again remind me the rationale of initially why to buy to the EQT and then dropdown versus I thought maybe there would a lower cost structure the other way? Well I’m not that comfortable giving timing guidance on dropdowns at this point because we just kicked this off.
Obviously routinely we would want to have dropdowns but I just assume to stay away from… Fair enough maybe… Too much guidance on that.
Neal was your other question about why the construct we’re using for the time being at least is to build facilities at EQT and then drop as opposed to building at EQM? Correct.
I’m certain you looked at sort of cost basis I just wanted the benefits how much you anticipate saving that? Sure.
Certainly over time we would expect there will be more facilities constructed at EQM.
The issue that we have though is that as we understand because we are neophyte in this MLP world.
But as we understand it what we’re really trying to do to drive value at that level is as you try to drive unit distribution growth and it is more difficult to do that when a high percentage of the capital employed is tied up in non-cash generating assets such as assets under construction.
So from that perspective – actually you think even with large MLPs you see that there’s only a certain percentage of their capital that they have invested in non-cash generating assets is just the size of EQM that’s not a very big number right now.
Over time you would expect to see that number to grow.
Okay.
And then just two more if I could Dave for you or Steve; one as well as looking at the I think the last presentation you all had out.
I think you’ve identified maybe 30% – 35% of the Marcellus as being wet.
Number one is that still accurate.
And then number two around that clearly with these pads what kind of well cost savings should we continue to assume as this 10 well pad just is amazing.
So I’m just wondering how much savings we could see because of these? At this time I’m sure you’re bored of hearing my voice.
So I’ll let Steve answer that.
Neal I think regarding the breakout of wet versus non-wet that still holds.
I will be clear on our definition of wet versus non-wet because into those numbers is an 1100 Btu cutoff.
So I think that’s not always consistent amongst companies.
But that’s what we’re using to come up with that number but nothing has changed in that area.
Regarding well cost savings the average cost numbers that we’re using for our type curves incorporate the fact that some of our wells will be on 10 well pads.
So I think you will be safe to continue to use those type curve numbers.
Okay.
And then lastly maybe Steve just following up as far as uniquely we’re able to cut CapEx a little bit even on the upstream side.
Just wondering when you look at lease expirations again you generally haven’t had any issues there will that continue to be the case? Yeah nearly all of our acres is HBP.
We have a small handful of drilling commitments that we’re easily able to keep up with.
So really no issues whatsoever with lease expirations.
Perfect.
Thanks with the color.
You bet.
Our next question is from Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Go ahead please.
Hello as a feeling we might have answer his questions already or he is rushing out to buy more stock.
Amy are you still there? Amy? Yes.
Our next question is from Anne Cameron with BNP Paribas.
Thank you.
Yes I’m here.
So just a question on the dropdown schedule I know you don't want to talk about it too much which you made a comment before I was just curious about.
If you're going to fund CapEx at EQT with proceeds from dropdowns at EQM I mean just given the run rate of your spending this year that implies a somewhat slower dropdown schedule than I was expecting if we slap in an assumption of like 10 or 11 whatever you want multiple on it.
Can you just comment on whether or not the dropdown schedule could get ahead of your CapEx? Well certainly it could yeah because all of this is over time.
I’m trying to talk – rarely will you find a quarter and maybe even a calendar year in which they just line up perfectly.
So yes absolutely it is possible for us to run ahead.
And I do realize that over a longer period of time of course there will be more dropdowns than there will be CapEx more and more of the business will shift to EQM.
The issue that we get into the struggle that we have is trying to forecast what dropdowns are frankly especially given the various disclosure constraints with the new entity.
So yeah absolutely there can be periods of time even in the near-term when dropdowns run ahead of CapEx.
And is there a target of how much of the EQM units that EQT wants to remain the owner of?  No we do not have a – we do not have such a target.
Okay.
And how important are the IDCs from your drilling business in terms of shielding gains on sale from those dropdown?  That is definitely something that will be taken into account when there are timing dropdowns.
Okay I guess what I’m asking is is there a scenario where you could maybe spin-off the LP and the GP and dropdown without those if those IDCs able there to shield it? Sure.
As you know we’ve said that we are open to anything that create shareholder value.
That is the tax attributes or something that or one of the issues that one ways when looking at those kinds of decisions.
So I don't feel that comfortable saying anything more than yes we would certainly take that into account but it's not the – that's not the sole determining factor in anything that we do from a structural perspective.
Okay got it.
Thank you very helpful.
Our next question is from Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Go ahead please.
Good morning guys.
Four questions for you on Tennessee capacity can you give us some more information on how much capacity you released of the total that you have and then how you expect that trajectory to change over time at what point do you think you will be fully utilizing that capacity and not having to sell at a discount? We will turn that one over to Randy.
Obviously we have growing production option that we have with our Huron to move into that capacity as well as some of our Tioga production.
So we do expect to utilize that capacity over time.
While the market has been increasing primarily the demand market around the power generation.
It is seasonal it’s not a robust marketing summer.
However it is a constrained pipeline and as demand increases in the Northeast and supply I think the value of this capacity will increase but it is seasonal.
But our intent is over the next couple of years to utilize that capacity primarily to move our product to market.
So probably on a 2Q and 3Q level we’ll usually see some maybe some discounting that not in Q1 and Q4 and then over the next couple of years and that completely goes away.
Is that fair? That's right Becca.
It is seasonal and I think that’s correct.
There is probably just to say it does – the difficulty with looking at second and third even though they’re likely not to be as good as first and fourth with the perspective in the market is.
It’s really driven by extreme weather.
So it is certainly possible that extremely hot weather can drive demand just as much as extremely cold weather can drive demand.
As we like to say around here we’re more comfortable when you are not comfortable.
The comfortable weather is not for the business.
Okay thanks.
And then on the MarkWest the incremental $40 million a day can you quantify about how much liquids uplift you think you’ll get from that?  Well we have a slide in our board presentation.
I’m sorry with the Investor Relations website that calculates that Becca it’s in the… Okay I’ll look at that.
Okay.
And so just to summarize Becca we’re currently getting a half down per Mcf on average and that will go up to 1.8 is what we estimate.
On that incremental volume? Right.
Okay thanks.
And then you talked last quarter about moving more to the wet gas area with the pullback in liquids prices is that still the plan has anything changed? Yeah it affects economics but it’s still – you get more look it’s just one factor.
We still get more value per unit volume in the wet areas than in the dry areas.
But it can certainly affect individual decisions.
Okay thanks.
And then the last question on the $65 million CapEx cut.
I think the wording was that you refined your estimates.
Can you give us any more information on what went into that $65 million reduction?  Becca that’s really just having a better idea of exactly which wells are going to drill where we’re going to drill them and when we’re going to drill and then we did back in November when we put our original plans together.
So there is really nothing more to it than that and just more knowledge about specifically what’s going to happen in the second half of this year.
So it’s not fewer wells or lower well cost it’s more of the individuality of the wells? Exactly.
Perfect.
Thank you guys.
You bet.
Your next question is from Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Go ahead please.
Thanks.
Sorry for missing the earlier call.
Just quickly I guess couple of things on my end.
Number one and apologies if you covered this at all but the backlog uptick quarter-on-quarter I understand you are drilling more on pads.
I’m thinking that probably is driving part of that.
Do you expect that then to kind of maintain at that sort of level or how should we think about that?  Michael this is Steve.
I think we expect it to bounce around a good bit because it is driven almost solely by the timing of these large multi-well pads we’re drilling.
I would remind you that we’re also doing a lot more fracs per well or per foot of well drilled than we used to which also means there is more frac stages out there per well that can add to the backlog.
But just to follow-up on the pad that Dave talked about the pad in Greene County where we have 10 wells.
There is 203 total frac stages on that pad which will be coming on line here over the next couple of weeks.
So that backlog of 412 I believe it is a backlog of frac stages half of those will be going away just in the next couple of weeks from one pad in Greene County.
Okay.
So it just happens to be very lumpy because of the timing of these things.
Okay that makes sense.
I guess the other one on my end is a little more structural.
In thinking obviously now we’ve made our way through the MLP process kind of begs the question I suppose regarding the distribution business.
How you guys are thinking about that in the grander scheme of things within the EQT corporate structure currently and to what extent is there our inability to I guess put away the production and unit from the others or desire I guess along those lines? Well first of all I do not intend to make news on that front on this conference call.
So if you interpret any of my remarks is making news then please reconsider but… Okay.
Yes we did say that we are going to – once we get passed what we did with the Midstream which is round up being EQM that we would again kind of resume looking at some of the other structural issues.
And all I’d say on that front is we just got finished with the MLP and we’re really just kind of catching our breadth and we’ll start looking at all the various possibilities to increase shareholder value.
But I’d say it’s a little too – we’re just not that bigger company that we could report a lot of our resources management and otherwise into getting that in EQT midstream partners up and running.
And so even though we have the opportunities start looking at other stuff.
We’re really only at the very very beginning of looking at other things.
And I would limit that necessarily to just distribution.
We’re looking at all aspects of our business to see how we can create more value.
Okay.
Is it fair to say that maybe by the end of the year you will call your breadth enough that maybe you have some more let’s say concrete thoughts around next steps? I promised that by the end of the year I will be able to answer that question whether we have it.
Honestly my view is we all learn things in new jobs and one other things I learned is not sharing too much about thought process.
so I don’t know where we’ll – we try to make progress on creating shareholder value on virtually continuous basis and I just think it’s – we’re in the same month as we closed an EQM going public.
Yeah.
so I’d rather not put any timing commitments other than just to promise you that everything is always on the table but that’s not news.
That’s the way it’s been I’d say since I have been at EQT our mindset has been everything is always on the table.
Okay that’s helpful.
I appreciate it and certainly understand like you said just got out of the MLP.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Chris McDougall with Westlake Securities.
Go ahead please.
Thank you very much for taking the questions gentlemen.
I want a little bit more color on your natural gas drilling coverts and that of running the rig off of natural gas.
Two questions so what percentage of the overall well cost is attributable to the diesel for the rig and then what percentage for diesel overall which I suspect is dominated by the frac stages? Chris this is Steve.
I don’t have a specific number for you but diesel cost as a percent of a total well cost is fairly small certainly in single-digit percentages.
So it’s not a huge driver towards the overall cost of a well but it’s the little thing it’s doing a lot of little things adds up over time.
So I wouldn’t say it’s trivial that we have a cost savings but up in and of itself it’s not a marked reduction in well cost.
So what was the second part of your question? Yeah.
So you had talked about this being a pilot program and I understand infrastructure and everything else has to kind of develop along with it.
Do you have any thoughts on the timing for converting more wells or more drilling rigs to this and have you experimented at all with running the frac spreads off of natural gas? Yeah.
At the current time I think as we speak we have our second rig running on natural gas.
So that’s two out of five of the Marcellus rigs.
I think we’re going to see how that goes probably through most of the rest of the year.
If it continues as well as it have so far I would expect next year we’ll talk about trying to convert over the entire fleet assuming that it continues to work well.
We have had discussions about the frac fleet.
That’s much more difficult problem to solve there.
I think ultimately our desire is to convert our frac fleets over to natural gas.
but that is clearly going to take significantly longer than the drilling rig.
So something we’re beginning to work on expect it to take quite a while before you see us actually fracing with natural gas with natural gas powered pumps.
Okay thanks.
And just lastly on the rig cost how much conversion cost do you have to – in a capital sense to convert one of these to run often natural gas? I think it’s in total and for these first ones we've paid for it as a pilot program.
We certainly hope in the future we can convince the drilling companies to make the conversions themselves.
It varies a lot.
I think it’s between $0.5 million and $1 million and the difference is for – when we want to operate with field gas meaning taking gas off of one of our pipelines rather than LNG.
We have to have a gas-conditioning skid and the cost of that skid is about $0.5 million.
But the cost of the gas is significantly less.
So from an economic standpoint we think field gas will be the best way to go in the areas where it’s available and we can use it in the areas where we can’t we’ll go with LNG.
Okay thanks a lot guys.
You bet.
Our next question is from Marcus Talbert with [Sevara Capital].
Go ahead please.
Hi gentlemen good morning.
Thanks for taking my call.
I had a quick question on the Midstream segment given the way that you framed the capital budget for the company with the reduction on the upstream side.
Just curious as to how the projects are coming along the gathering and expansion projects within the Midstream business and if there’s been any change to the prior guidance in terms of how much you had planned to allocate to this project this year.
Hi Marc Randy Craw.
No change in our forecast and we’re on-time on-budget.
In fact our Sunrise project will be turned in line in the third quarter August 1 and that that’s $300 million of their capacity on Equitrans so we’re on-time and no changes.
Okay thanks very much.
And just one more quick question for me on the E&amp;P business with this initial 10-well pad that you guys are putting in line in August.
Is it that all 10 of these wells will be turned into sales during the month of August? And then just a follow-up in terms of the completion design; was there any differentiation between your standard frac design and some of the newer completions that you spoke about in the past? Yes all these wells should be online by the end of August.
Three are currently online those three are producing about 40 million a day as we speak and over the next couple of weeks we should have the rest in line.
On the completion designs there was a mix on this pad but most of these wells used our reduced cluster spacing design.
Okay great.
Thanks very much guys for the color.
You bet.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Patrick Kane for any closing remarks.
Thank you Amy and thanks everybody for participating.
We’ll see you next quarter.
Thanks.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Welcome to the EQT Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions).
After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Patrick Kane Chief Investor Relations Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Laura.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation’s third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream Distribution and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Senior Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a seven-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
The phone number for the replay is (412) 317-0088 and the confirmation code is 10006606.
The call will also be replayed for seven days on our website.
As you already know this is the first quarter for EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM and its results are consolidated in EQT’s results.
There was a separate Press Release issued by EQM this morning and there is a separate conference call at 11:30 today which creates a hard stop for this call at 11:25.
If you are interested in listening in on the EQM call the dial number is (412) 317-6789.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT’s operational and financial results for the third quarter 2012 which were released this morning.
Then Dave will provide an update on our strategic operational matters.
Following Dave’s remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will all be available to answer your questions.
But first as usual I’d like to remind you that today’s call may contain forward-looking statements related to future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today’s Press Release under Risk Factors in the EQT Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 which was filed with the SEC as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are on file at the SEC and available on our website.
Today’s call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning’s Press Release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
This morning EQT announced third quarter 2012 earnings of $0.21 per diluted share.
That compares to EPS of $0.45 in third quarter 2011 after the adjusting for the sale of Big Sandy.
Operating cash flow was a $176 million in our third quarter of 2012 compared to $191 million for the third quarter of 2011 and adjusted cash flow per share was a $1.18 in the current quarter compared to a $1.28 in the third quarter last year.
Our operational performance was outstanding again this quarter with 33% higher production volumes 30% higher gathering volumes and continued low per unit operating costs.
However as I’m sure you are aware commodity prices in the recently completed quarter were significantly lower than they were last year resulting in both lower operating income and cash flow.
This quarter as Pat mentioned was our third with an MLP.
As you know EQT Midstream Partners complete its initial public offering in early July.
The EQT Midstream Partners results are consolidated in EQT results and we recorded a $4.8 million or $0.03 per diluted share deduction in the quarter for the portion that went to non-controlling interest unit holders to arrive at the net income to EQT shareholders.
While there is no gain on the accounting books as a result of the IPO on the tax books we recognized a gain of approximately $110 million.
That gain results in additional cash taxes for 2012 of approximately $13 million as we were able to offset most of the tax obligation with our tax yields from intangible drilling cost deductions and tax depreciation.
Another non-operational variance from the norm this quarter was our effective tax rate of 24%.
The lower effective tax rate was due to less income on our companies that pay state taxes a tax benefit recorded in the third quarter to reflect the 2011 tax return that we recently file and the impact of the EQT Midstream Partners.
As we've mentioned from a financial reporting standpoint we consolidate 100% of EQM pretax income at EQT.
However we only report taxes on our 60% share.
That has the effect of lowering the average effective tax right? Despite the quarterly rate we do expect our full year effective tax rate to be around 38.5% after making adjustments at year end to reflect our increasing income contribution from Pennsylvania which taxes at a higher rate than other states will operate.
Moving on to the segment results starting with EQT production; sales volumes continue to grow rapidly.
The growth rate in the recently completed quarter as we mentioned was 33% over the third quarter of ’11.
That growth rate was driven by sales from our Marcellus play which contributed approximately 60% of the volumes in the quarter.
Marcellus volumes were 85% higher than the same quarter a year ago.
However as I mentioned gas prices were lower in the quarter consistent with lower NYMEX prices.
At the corporate level EQT received an average wellhead sales price of $4.04/mcf equivalent compared to $5.25 received in the same quarter last year.
The realized price at EQT production was $2.85/mcf equivalent this quarter compared to $4.02 last year.
Even with more than 50% of our volumes hedged in 2012 EQT productions average realized price per Mcfe was 41% lower than the third quarter 2011.
Produced Liquids accounted for 5% of the volumes in the quarter and as we always remind you we do not include ethane in this calculation given that it's currently primarily sold as methane.
Total operating expenses at EQT production were higher quarter-over-quarter mainly as a result of higher DD&amp;A expense which was driven by the 33% higher volumes and a higher DD&amp;A rate in 2012.
Our average DD&amp;A rate was $1.54 per unit for the recent quarter and we estimate that it will be up a penny to approximately a $1.55 in the fourth quarter.
As a result of the impressive volume growth in the quarter I'm looking at the well schedule to come online.
As you saw we are raising our 2012 sales volume estimate to 257 bcf equivalent.
Furthermore even though we are still completing our Development Plan for 2013 we are comfortable that our growth rate off of that revised 2012 estimate would be at least 335 bcf or up 30% or more on an annual basis versus 2011.
We will provide an update in December when we announce our 2013 capital budget.
Moving on to Midstream results in the third quarter operating incoming here was up 22% again adjusted for the Big Sandy gain in 2011.
The increase is consistent with the growth of gathered volumes and increased capacity based transmission charges.
Net gathering revenues increased 22% to $77 million in the third quarter ‘12 primarily due to a 30% increase in gathered volumes.
The average gathering rate paid by EQT production will continue to decline as Marcellus production continues to grow as a percentage of our total production mix.
Specifically the average revenue deduction paid by EQT production to EQT Midstream for gathering was %0.09 lower this quarter versus the same quarter last year at $1/mcf equivalent.
Transmission revenues for the third quarter 2012 increased by $8 million or 45% versus 2011 and that results from capacity charges associated Equitrans expansion projects launching project including Sunrise which was completed in July 2012.
Storage marketing and other net revenues was down $7 million in the third quarter 2012 or $0.04 in earnings per share primarily from unrealized losses on derivatives and inventory probably in this quarter.
As has been mentioned before the storage and marketing part of the Midstream business relies on natural gas price volatility and seasonal spreads in the forward curve and those have continued to deteriorate year-over-year.
Given current market conditions we now estimate that full year 2012 net revenues in storage marketing and other will total approximately $45 million.
Operating expenses at Midstream were $5.6 million higher than the same quarter last year consistent with the growth in the business.
To conclude just a quick liquidity update.
As a result of the slightly higher volume forecast we also expect our operating cash flow for 2012 to slightly exceed $800 million.
We closed the quarter with no outstanding balance on our $1.5 billion credit facility and have $639 million of cash on our balance sheet as of September 30th.
So we remain in a great position from both a liquidity and a balance sheet standpoint.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Dave Porges.
Thank you Phil.
We continue to focus on achieving our objective maximizing shareholder value via an overarching strategy of economically accelerating and a monetization of our asset base and prudent pursuit of investment opportunities while living within our means.
The tactics continue to evolve somewhat based upon market conditions and the fact that we are completing some of the tactical steps outlined previously.
We took three major steps all related to our Midstream business so far in the past two years with the sale of our only processing plant and our Big Sandy Pipeline in 2011 and our successful IPO of EQT Midstream partners mid-year 2012.
We still have more work to do as we look forward to accelerating the development of our vast opportunity set.
We have two plays that we are not currently developing.
Our CBM acreage representing about 250 Bcf of proved developed reserves but not much additional 3P value at current market prices and our huge Huron Play with one Tcfe of proved developed reserves and 7.7 Tcfe of 3P reserves.
We will look to realize value from these two plays but probably in different ways.
It is most likely that we will eventually sell the CBM play outright since there is not much value in the undeveloped locations at anything close to current prices.
To that end we did do some work to determine what potential buyers might be willing to pay for those assets.
For the time being the transaction market value is not high enough to want further pursuit of a cash transaction.
We will revisit this issue as natural gas prices recover thereby increasing the value of the PDPs.
The Huron on the other hand has significant value in the undeveloped locations at the current strip.
So we are more likely to try to find a way to capture some of that value by accessing another source of capital through not EQT equity to reactive that play.
Obviously this will require some imagination and may take a while but we’re in the early stages of examining the alternatives that generally involve EQT continuing as operator but using third party capital for development as EQT has developed some competencies in developing this somewhat distinctive play.
Unfortunately even though Huron development is economical at the current strip it does not compete well with our alternative uses of capital which is why we believe it makes sense to examine possible transactions.
Regarding the main such alternative use of our capital we continue to manage our Marcellus acreage position to allow for as much multi well pad development as possible as this is both the most economical and most environmentally sensitive approach.
In circumstances in which this approach is not practical we are either looking a joint development or tactical sales of properties.
To that end we are looking at the possibility of selling or swapping our 8600 acres in Tioga County since it is neither large enough nor close enough to our core development areas to rank very high in our investment priority list.
Another source of relatively low-cost capital is EQT Midstream Partners our MLP.
Sale of Midstream assets to EQM that is dropdowns offers a repeatable source of low-cost capital.
This funding source help EQT accelerate development of our Marcellus position which in turn will create new Midstream opportunities that add to the inventory of droppable Midstream assets.
As you recall conceptually overtime we intend to fund EQT’s Midstream CapEx with the sales to EQM.
As for specific timing it is unlikely that we will executive a large drop that would require the issuance of new units prior to July 2 2013 when EQM would be considered a seasoned issuer which simplifies EQM’s process for raising equity capital though what is possible that we would execute a small drop before then to give us a little experience with the process of valuing and accounting for a dropdown.
We are currently working through the mechanics of dropdowns involving various Midstream assets.
Moving onto other operational matters as we told you on the last call MarkWest is building a processing plant to serve our West Virginia wells.
Construction of this plant is still moving along according to the revised schedule and we still anticipate completion by year end.
As you recall this revised schedule calls for later completion than originally anticipated but here have been no further revisions to the schedule since all last quarterly update.
As mentioned on the last call EQT and MarkWest have also developed an interim solution using some existing and some new assets to provide EQT with some cryogenic processing until the originally contracted facilities are turned in line.
This capacity roughly equivalent to 35 million cubic feet per day are a third of contractual capacity and the new plant was online for most of the third quarter.
However since this was all interruptible we currently only have about 25-30 MMcfd of capacity.
We have also committed to take 100 million cubic feet equivalent of incremental processing capacity on a planned expansion of this facility.
So this represents incremental processing above and beyond the 120 MMcfe that we have in the first plant.
We are still working with MarkWest on the timing of this incremental volume.
As you saw in this morning’s Press Release we increased our production sales volume guidance.
I mentioned in the last call growth rates versus same quarter prior year can vary due to the inherent lumpiness of how we add volumes.
This lumpiness is largely the result of a combination of pad drilling and the timing of infrastructure adds.
Last quarter we discussed a 10 well pad in Greene County that was being turned in line in July.
As we expected we saw initial flow rates of a 100 million per day from this pad.
Additionally we have two pads with a combined total of 13 wells that are being turned in line currently and three more pads for a combined total of 15 wells that will begin being turned in line next year (ph).
This is what gives us confidence to increase volume guidance for 2012 and to set that preliminary 2013 volume growth target of 30% versus that upwardly revised 2012 target.
In summary EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by accelerating the monetization of our reserves and other opportunities.
We continue to be focused on earning the highest possible returns from our investments and are doing what we should to increase the value of your shares.
We will stay disciplined and live within our means investing our available cash from operations and from future monetization.
We look forward continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and appreciate your continued support.
And with that I’ll turn the call back over to Pat Kane.
Thank you Dave.
This concludes the comments portion of the call.
Laura can we please now open the call for questions? Question-and-Answer Session Just a quick question on the -- just look at your Marcellus horizontal well status.
It looked like as far as just a well spud down just slightly third quarter versus second.
So I'm just wondering the rate there I guess that you see going forward is that what kind of growth rate just on total well spud and then but it looks like frac stages might be extending just slightly if you could a little bit on how you're spacing it.
Hey Neal just so you know we have Steve Schlotterbeck and Randy Crawford sitting in with us and also to help answer questions and this sounds like a great one for Steve.
Yes Neal I think that's just the sort of the normal fluctuation of timing.
You see a little bit lower well count due to drilling longer laterals but I don’t think there's really much to read in there.
We still expect to end the year around 130 - 132 well spuds.
So really no new news there.
I think on the frac stages you didn’t specifically ask about it but the fourth quarter is going to be a very busy quarter for us in terms of bringing online and new frac stages and for reference over the past four quarters the biggest quarter for us in terms of new frac stages online was three quarters ago with 578 stages.
In the fourth quarter this year we expect to bring online over 1 100 new stages.
So we have a lot of new production coming on this quarter.
It’s a big number and then Steve just to follow that there didn’t appear to be any takeaway issues.
I was just noticing on the wells complete but not online.
Is that related to the takeaway or not necessarily? There’s always a hand full of wells that waiting on our pipeline to be completed but for the most part its timing of these multi well pads.
So we happened to hit a spot here early in the fourth quarter where a number of large pads are ready to go.
So we would be bringing a lot on so the backlog will fall really a trivial amount of pipeline or capacity issues involved in those numbers? Okay then lastly in that same area it sounds like you obviously are doing now primarily pads.
Does that mean Steve I guess you just want to look on kind of unit basis that you'll be able to get more wells in some of these key areas because of that? I guess the question would be how many wells max per pad and then how many if you hit sort of some of these key areas how many wells could you get In some of these units? Well we have been focusing our efforts in two key areas one the Greene County area which is a dry gas area but is our most productive area.
We focused a lot of our attention there this year and the second area is Doddridge County which is higher Btu gas.
It's still equivalent from an economic basis to Greene County.
So we've already been focusing there.
You're going to see pads range from four wells to many as ten wells.
A lot of it is depending on the specific acreage position in those areas but a clear goal of ours is to maximize the number of wells per pad which we take as a big economic advantage and continuing to drill with longer laterals as we can.
Just a quick question on the unused transmission capacity the $5 million charge.
Can you just tell us give us some color where that was? Is this up in the Tioga area and what the total liability might be over the next few quarters or so? The capacity is related to the Tennessee 300 line and as we've said we've got long term and short term lease for that and we continue to see the value in that capacity over the long term.
It's a constrained area and it is centered in and around the Tioga Northern Pennsylvania area.
And how much is that total commitment that you might not end up using in terms of costs or capital? Well it's really a contractual asset.
We have contracted $350 million a day capacity and we continue to utilize that as we ramp into our production and we're executing on a short term some additional releases and in the long term but the value associated with that capacity as I said in a constrained area is seasonal in nature.
So it's difficult to predict how that will go quarter-over-quarter.
There's a lot of seasonality with it.
And as you are aware when we first enter into those kind of agreements since these are new pipes because there's growth or new expansion you have to enter into an agreement to take out all of the capacity that you're going to get for that particular project all up front.
It's just that as Randy said with our own production we're ramping into the need for it; so some of it gets reserved for our own use for our own produced assets.
In some cases we have contracted out for a two-three year period et cetera on pretty much a firm basis; but then we always keep some that's a little bit on of a short term cushion versus what our current needs are which would allow us to make sure we can move our own production if it increases more rapidly than expected or that we would sell into the market.
And what we're talking about then is that what happens with that additional portion only and that's the piece that has tended to be as you would imagine a bit seasonal.
So for the most part you're making money on the first and fourth quarters and you're losing a bit of money in the second and third quarter but we did not enter into that capacity just so you know for trading purposes.
That is designed over time to be moving our own produced gas.
Okay that’s fair.
And then can you just give us some timing in terms of 80 000 acres in Tioga the swap or the sale as well as timing on when you decide what to do with the Huron Berea? I’m sorry I am not sure if we heard that.
Is it possible for you to speak up a little? Sure just the timing in terms of the selling or swapping the 80 000 acres that you’re talking about in Tioga where there is a 2Q (ph)? It’s actually 8 600 acres.
So I must not have been clear on my comments.
I apologize for that.
It is 8 600 acres in Tioga and I just say that we’re in the midst of finding out what might be out there for that property.
I don’t know that I’ve got any specific timing to offer off and incidentally our attitude is that all the assets at some point are for sale.
So sometimes we run formal processes and sometimes we just kind of do market checks.
So it really kind of depends on market conditions what would happen there and I would say and the Huron that we are in the early stages of looking at what the alternatives are because we do suspect that it’s likely to be something a little bit more structured with the Huron since the issue there is the development opportunity we think has so much value in it.
But we’re going to have to figure out how we can best extract that value.
Okay and then just one final question.
In terms of the 30% production growth you played out for ‘13 how many wells does that require in terms of drilling in ‘13? See I don’t know that it requires many wells in ‘13.
You’re aware of the lag we’ve got this extensive lag especially with multi well pads; I guess maybe we’ve even got a little bit longer lag but but gee Steve I don’t know we probably don’t need all that many wells? It doesn’t require lot of drilling next year.
2012 is drilling the majority of our growth in 2013.
Now by the same token that means of course that most of the wells that we drill in 2013 are not really going to be contributing much to 2013 volume lest you think that we could race way way higher than that; once you get what Steve about the first quarter of 2013 it’s really not going to contribute much to 2013 volumes.
Okay and then the ‘13 guidance is coming out December in terms of the capital side? Yes the formal guidance yes because that will get blessed by our board and we typically think of it at our December board meeting.
It’s typically in the very end of November the very beginning of December and that’s when the Board approves the capital budget.
Randy I had a question as far as when you talk about doing a small dropdown what sort the range of value you could do that without having to issue units at EPM.
We’ve got obviously a variety of options with the inventory that we have at the EQT; and so again we have access to $350 million on a revolver that we could access we could then draw.
Certainly we wouldn’t be looking to do all of that but we have that opportunity I don’t know if….
It was actually Dave that mentioned that.
We would be thinking about something pretty small just as Dave mentioned try out the process.
We have to go through a Conflict (ph) Committee with EQM and there’s counting implications that we need to sort of try out.
So if can we’d like to try to do a small one before we do a large one.
Yes if you are trying to get a sense for modeling purposes for EQT I don’t think you really need to pay much attention to that.
I think you would be looking more at what it would look like what a larger drop might look like? You should get more deeply into 2013.
Okay and just big picture thoughts on the Marcellus I believe the Marcellus is producing about 6.4 Bs a day.
Where do you guys think that is in the year? I feel like I’m hearing a lot of people talking about cutting back.
I guess do you guys have a view? I guess there are some areas in the Marcellus we’ve talked about tiering and I might have a comment and Steve I think will have a comment but when we talk about the economic tiering let’s say within the Marcellus we have observed that there has been fair amount of cutting back in the lesser kind of the lowest tier which seems like it’s generally speaking geographically more like in the middle of the play.
Not really so much in the North Eastern part of the play or the South Western play.
Steve do you have? I think that’s very true.
The only thing I would add is we’re not really up in the Northeast part of the play but we do continue to hear about the Midstream constrains up there.
So that might moderate what happens there over the next year or two but I think in this town that we’re at where we have a lot of capacity we have great economics.
So I think it’s going to be continued significant activity down there.
Yes we hear a lot of about the number of wells that are prevented from being turned in line due to the Midstream but we really don’t have very much direct experience with that.
From our prospective most of it as Steve alluded to it and answered to an earlier question is much more just kind of some little timing issues but we don’t actually see those things that get reported on as been big large backlogs of wells that evidently get represented as has being completed and ready turn in line but not able to turn in line and we understand if that’s happening the people in that part of the play might decide they don’t want to drill more wells for a while.
That would make sense but we don’t actually have any direct experience with that in the South Western part of play.
Got it.
And I feel like I heard for a couple of years that differentials were going to go away in the Marcellus and I'm seeing $0.20 to $0.30 premiums on Tennessee.
Any sense with that that’s going to change going forward and are you benefiting as a result right now of having that locked in capacity on Tennessee.
Ray this is Randy.
As I said it is a constrained area.
There are wells that we hear that are continuing to be turned in line and so we think that capacity certainly near term and maybe into the future as other development goes will add value and so over the calendar year with the long term and short term leases we have been able to recover our cost plus after this year.
I’ll tell you we have the sense that most companies that we kind of think of as our peers kind of similar sized and stuff and like have taken a kind of a similar approach with making sure that they’re lining up this capacity.
I guess we’re presuming that there must be other folks who did not take that approach but the ones that we follow most closely we could tell took approaches that more or less were similar to what ours were where you take big positions on these pipes when they do get built and we’re certainly happy that we’ve done so.
Though that said if you are planning to build a big industrial facility we’re prefer it that you build in South Western PA or Northern West Virginia.
Just one quick one; is the 30% growth in 2013 you’re not assuming that you’re able to make something happen in the Huron to achieve that it sounded like.
No that doesn’t include anything in the Huron.
As a matter of fact the reality is that would mean it has to overcome a little bit of natural decline in the Huron.
I don’t have numbers in front of me but it’s just we haven’t been drilling there for several months and unfortunately we can’t make the volumes go up without drilling.
Two question for you.
One on the Huron if you look at another source of capital for that E&amp;P side and that’s an area that requires incremental infrastructures.
So how do you handle the capital for incremental infrastructure? Well to start with if it were an incremental development plan we would be targeting the parts of the play where less infrastructure was necessary.
So that’s certainly something that we’re aware of.
To some extent depending on the pacing one can simply kind of drill into the decline as it were.
To really take broader advantage of the development opportunity though as you suggest Becca we would have to have paired with it a Midstream program.
But when we are looking at the solutions we are taking that into account.
We never really just look at the capital that would be associated with the development.
We would look at the capital that would be required for the Midstream build out.
The restructuring and I know it’s in early stages but that structuring it could come for two different sources of capital one for the Midstream and one for E&amp;P or one source.
There is options there? That is correct yes.
And incidentally it could for the whole Huron or we could break it up into pieces either around Midstream the way I just described or something that followed more natural geographic boundaries.
So we are open minded and seriously I know I have said this before on calls.
Maybe people think I’ve been sarcastic but if there are good ideas that folks we are happy to hear them.
We know it going to take a creative solution and we know that we don’t have a monopoly on those.
And then my second question is we saw that you guys had a permitted a couple of wells in Guernsey County in Ohio and I'm assuming does it look like they are Utica permits? Can you talk about acreage position there and plans for pursuing drilling where those permits are? Yes Becca this is Steve.
You are right we did permit a couple of wells or I think one is permitted one is permit applied.
We hope to drill one or two test wells in Utica this year.
We have at the current time an immaterial amount of acreage in Utica.
Our strategy is to drill one or two test wells see whether we like the play or not and if we do at that point we would consider whether we want to build an acreage position in it.
So right now it’s fairly immaterial.
Can you remind us how quickly you expect to ramp up to the 120 million a day at the MarkWest plant when it’s up and running]? Geez I don’t know it is almost measured in minutes probably.
Okay.
So immediately.
Well once the plant it’s not just a matter of the plant being turned in line.
They then have to just normally as you would do with any plant they are going to have to run through a variety of tests.
So it’s not as if the volume would immediately go to capacity on Day 1 but if you put aside plant issues I think we’d probably we be ready to flow….
I think realistically it's probably over a couple of months to get those wells in line going to the play but it is from the scheme of things very very quickly.
Okay and then you talked about possible expansions with MarkWest.
Do you have like a size? I know you said timing is still being worked out but….
Well as David said in his comments we’re looking at a 100 million of incremental capacity above a 120.
And then when I look at the map in that table detailing how many acres you have within each type curve in your Analyst Presentation you guys are drilling most of your wells by the border of Southwest PA and West Virginia where it’s a mix of wet and dry and I’ve realized that only 35% of your acreage overall is in the wet part but how should we think about the pace that you drill up the wet acreage there might be a lower (inaudible) but may or may not be better economics depending on where liquids faces are.
Do you just primarily focus on the Nine B (ph) wells that are probably drier and have higher initial rates and better production declines or what kind of dislocation does there have to be between NGLs and natural gas that make you think that net present value is better in some of the wetter wells.
Right now for us the economics between the Doddridge County wet area we’re focused on and the Greene county dry area are pretty equivalent.
So we really are drilling for economics but we obviously have to factor in capacity.
So if you can’t float a gas your economics generally don’t look too good but right now they are fairly equivalent at current gas price or liquids price spread.
So if that changes then we may want to focus on one area more than the other although there are also operational constraints how many loans we can put in one small area.
But right now it's pretty equivalent.
Okay so if everything stays the same you would say it's going to be dictated by infrastructure pretty much it sounds like.
Well infrastructure and land issues.
Sometimes if you think you have a chance to fill in some land positions that would allow you to either put more wells on a pad have a longer laterals that can obviously influence some of our timing too or (inaudible) prioritization.
Okay and then you guys have talked about how some EQT shareholders have voiced concerns that Equitrans was placed too cheaply into the MLP and recognizing that there is a need for balance between doing what's right for EQM and EQT shareholders how are you thinking about the potential expansion opportunity at Sunrise that can potentially double your initial capacity at very-very low cost? Should we think Sunrise gets strapped in more of a typical multiple and maybe we will use Big Sandy as a bench mark and EQM getting the benefit from that organic opportunity or will EQM have to pay up front with the higher multiples? I don't believe any of us; certainly I have not; but I don’t believe any of us have commented that we have gotten complaints about the pricing of EQM to the extent we've commented I'd think I'd characterized it more as recognizing that there's a tradeoff between what's in EQT's best near term interests and what's in EQM's best near term interest though our view has been that a fair price is in the long term best interests of both entities and that's really what we take into account.
That does mean to your specific question about the Sunrise expansion and incidentally this wouldn’t just be Sunrise.
This will apply to any number of candidates for sales from EQT to EQM.
To what extent if there is further investments to be made do we make the investments at EQT and sell into EQM at probably a lower multiple on a higher cash flow versus selling in before making the investment at a higher multiple off a lower cash flow and I think it's fair to say that that is going to be done on a case-by-case basis there's no interest at the EQT level in selling assets to EQM on the cheap and we also don’t think that it's in the long term best interest of EQT given our position at EQM to somehow try to get an overly inflated price either.
So it will be a balance and it will be a tradeoff and it's going to be particularly difficult as you’ve pointed to find that when there's expansion opportunities.
And then lastly just an accounting question; how much of the $7 million decrease in storage and marketing at Midstream was attributable to unrealized losses on derivatives and inventory? Do you guys have that on hand? It was a little more than half of it I believe.
And that's a non-cash thing that sort of unwinds over time.
It's sort of an oddity in the accounting.
A little more than half of it was that.
I guess a couple of just real quick ones my (inaudible) has been answering.
First on the Huron capital would you characterize what you're considering as more temporary in terms of a source of capital or something more permanent like another (inaudible).
I’d say what we’d prefer to do is to find something that would a more persistent source of capital but that’s only because we have that 7 Tcf almost 8 Tcf of 3P reserves.
It’s that logic.
And the nature of the development there is it’s just going to work a lot better if once we get reenergized there and remobilized if we are able to stick with it for some period of time.
So if temporary meant a year it’s probably not all that interesting.
It would be more interesting if we thought that it had the potential to go on and on.
But as far as that goes I’m not sure that I had commented on any specific vehicle that we might use other than it would be better if we thought that it gave us access to capital over a longer period of time as opposed to a capital that could only support the development for a short period of time.
And then I guess in some other related thinking related to and Midstream leads down the road around that program that something around EQM could see it off or feed into a well or… Absolutely that’s relating back to the prior question about some of the tradeoffs.
At this point it’s probably fair to say that for the most part the EQT Huron Midstream position is a little less interesting from the perspective of a sale to EQM than it would be if we were to reenergize the development there and you had at least stable and maybe even somewhat growing volumes.
So yes actually both things are true.
It’s not just that EQM could be an interesting source of capital for that.
It’s that it’s actually a more interesting source of capital if it’s paired with growth.
(Inaudible).
Um and then (inaudible) the outlook you provided does that include capital from dropdowns further some transactions of (inaudible)? I’m sorry which part of the outlook are you referring to? The 30% plus growth for EQT in ‘13.
No we would say that that doesn’t really require any form of external capital but that’s really because the lag is such that most of the growth that we anticipate in 2013 is going to result from wells for which most of the capital will have been spent by the end of 2012.
(Inaudible) in ’13 moving into 2015 (ph).
The reason for continuing to push for external capital like from EQM in 2013 is primarily to facilitate growth in 2014 and 2015 and obviously we’re not about growth rates but to continue to facilitate growth in the out years.
Okay and do you have any updates on average initial production rates? It seemed that during the last quarter on your Marcellus program maybe any additional color around how existing rates are stacking up versus your where you are tight curves and specifically related also to the new completion geometry you’ve talked about in the past? Mike this is Steve.
The only thing I really have to offer I don’t have specifics on average IPs but I will say we continue to be very comfortable with the tight curves we provided.
We see no reason to adjust those.
I will say since we focused on lot of our drilling in the Greene County area that’s one of the best areas for the reduced cluster spacing frac technique.
So we are on average doing a lot more stages per well.
For example in the fourth quarter for those wells I mentioned that will be turning in line those will have 28.5 stages per well on average and the average stage length is 192 feet.
So the modified completion technique has 150 foot stages.
The base design has 300 foot stages so you can tell from that if there is high percentage of wells with the new technique.
Just really one bigger picture question I guess from Dave and certainly not trying to run around the December budget announcement but you… Those kind of questions my colleagues let me answer to it the big picture.
You’ve talked about in the past kind of the cash flow CapEx deficit being filled with these asset sales and given really you’re just kind of kicking off the process here how should we think about the budget in December? Should we think about it at a lower level given that you’re very early in the process or just bigger picture trying to get sense for how to think about it? Well I don’t want to make any commitment.
As I said before I don’t want to make any news on this call but it isn’t really so much for legal reasons.
It’s because the Board hasn’t approved a budget yet.
But the construct is that we would like to routinely and this is part of the idea with EQM is we would like to be able to continue to routinely invest anyhow 300 million 400 million something like that or so more than what our internally generated cash flow would allow but that’s just because we think that that’s what optimal overtime from a perspective of monetizing our asset and opportunities sets.
So in that regard I wouldn’t say that the thought process has really changed versus the thought process that went into 2012 numbers the 2011 numbers.
Where it comes out specifically as far as the numbers is really where it’s hard to go to but I don’t see that there is a particular need given the capital we’ve already raised that you should be assuming that we would only be able to spend based on operating cash flow in 2013 because we’ve already been raising money from other sources.
So how much do we have on the balance sheet now as far as cash? $639 million.
You’ll see that in the queue later today.
So we’ve been trying to stay a year or two ahead with that and I would say that’s kind of mindset coming into the 2013 budget again without trying preempt the Board’s authority in deciding what the capital budget should be.
Is that at all helpful or is that kind of a politician’s answer.
No it is helpful.
I was just trying to get a sense if we saw a fairly large number is that because there is plans to do something or just trying to really get sense on if you guys had all felt held up by this process? No I think that’s just though I think where we are and actually it was one of our investors who used this terminology but we have a variety of leverage that we have to pull to be able to generate additional capital and we think it’s the right thing to do to move (inaudible) management if you will to move money from the opportunities that aren’t as interesting to us or that fall further down our priority list and from my perspective.
I certainly hope this is the way people at the company look at it.
It’s just an ongoing process.
That’s not just a 2012 or 2013 process.
We are going to be doing that for some period of time.
We are going to be looking at which assets would be best.
We know we are going to make the money by monetizing molecules and to the extent that we are selling them one molecule at a time versus in bunches is really what we have to decide and I think that’s the issue that we’re going to be facing strategically for a period of time for a more than a couple of years probably.
Yes thanks for the follow up.
I just wanted to quickly (inaudible) of last quarter and I don’t know if there is any updated thoughts but if you have updated color it would be appreciated around thoughts on the utility distribution business and as it relates to that as a source of capital down the road.
Any updated thoughts around that? Mike I’ve been informed that we’ve run out of time because of the upcoming event.
Actually we probably have run out of time but our thought process is the same.
Strategically there is nothing that’s changed.
We do have a list of things that we’re working through as you’ve heard on a number of the calls but that’s one where I definitely don’t have any news that I wish to make on today’s call but our strategic perspectives have not changed.
Thank you all.
I would like to just thank everybody for participating and will look forward to the next quarter.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the EQT Corporation 2012 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Patrick Kane.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Amy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation's year-end 2012 earnings conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges president and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream Distribution and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Senior Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a 7-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 p.m.
today.
The telephone number for the replay is (412) 317-0088 with the confirmation code of 10006617.
The call will also be replayed on our website for 7 days.
As you already know this is the second quarter for EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM and its results are consolidated in EQT's results.
There's a separate press release issued by EQM this morning and there's a separate conference call today at 11:30 which creates a hard stop for this call at 11:25.
If you are interested in the EQM call the dial-in number is (412) 858-4600.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT's operational and financial results for the year-end 2012 which were released this morning.
Then Dave will provide an update on our strategic operational matters.
Following Dave's remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will be available to answer your questions.
But first I'd like to point to a new table that was included in today's press release.
This is a revenue recognition table found on Page 12 titled EQT Corporation Price Reconciliation and details the company's production revenue per product.
This new table will replace the historically published price reconciliation table which is also included on Page 5 of today's release.
For your modeling purposes we published the last 4 quarters using the new price reconciliation format on our website.
I would also like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements related to future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed on today's press release under Risk Factors in EQT's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 which was filed by the SEC and updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which were also on file with the SEC and available on our website and in the company's Form 10-K for year-end December 31 2012 when it's filed.
Today's call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to the morning's press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
With that I'll turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced 2012 adjusted earnings of $1.49 per diluted share compared to $2.19 per diluted share in 2011.
The high-level story for the year and the fourth quarter was very strong volume growth and lower unit cash costs in both the Production and the Midstream businesses which was overcome throughout the year by significantly lower commodity prices.
Reported earnings for 2012 and 2011 were also impacted by several somewhat unusual items that should be considered when interpreting and comparing results.
With the exception of some items in the fourth quarter which I will touch on in a moment we have discussed these items on prior calls.
Rather than to repeat those explanations I will refer you to the detailed list on our non-GAAP reconciliation table on Page 7 of today's release.
Operating cash flow was $832 million in 2012 or about $55 million lower than last year.
Just as a reminder and Pat touched on it the full-year 2012 results included 2 quarters of results from our MLP.
As you will recall EQT Midstream Partners results are consolidated in EQT Corp.
results and EQT recorded $13 million of net income attributable to the noncontrolling interests or $0.09 per diluted share.
So again in short 2012 was a strong operating year at EQT.
Production volumes were 33% higher than last year.
After gas-liquids volumes were 13% higher Midstream gathering volumes were 30% higher and transmission capacity reservation revenues grew by 27%.
However commodity prices were 21% lower than last year which again meant we were fighting an uphill battle on operating income and cash flow results throughout the year in 2011 -- for 2012 versus 2011.
Fourth quarter 2012 adjusted earnings were $0.48 per diluted share.
That compares to EPS of $0.59 in the fourth quarter of '11.
A significantly higher production sales volumes were again overcome by lower commodity prices and higher absolute cost along with $5.5 million of revenue reductions related to the capacity resell of the El Paso 300 line and $4.3 million of unrealized losses at Midstream both of which we also experienced in prior quarters this year.
The fourth quarter adjusted earnings number also excludes 4 items that did not occur in the prior quarters: a $23.3 million expense related to an interest rate hedge; approximately $4.5 million in transaction expenses associated with the sale of Equitable Gas; a $4.5 million lease impairment reported in exploration expense; and a positive $2.5 million regulatory reserve reversal at Midstream.
Again these items are detailed in the release.
But before moving on a moment on the interest rate hedge.
During the third quarter of 2011 the company entered into an interest rate hedge in anticipation of refinancing $200 million of long-term debt scheduled to mature in November 2012.
We subsequently entered into several transactions including the formation an IPO of EQT Midstream Partners MLP and the announcement of a definitive agreement to sell Equitable Gas.
These capital-raising transactions improved the company's current and projected liquidity position to such an extent that not only was there no need to refinance that 2012 debt.
It became unlikely that any debt financing will be required in 2013 as well.
So the interest rate hedge position was closed without resulting in the recognition of $23.3 million expense.
Operating cash flow at EQT was $268.9 million in the fourth quarter 2012 compared to $243.7 million for the fourth quarter of '11.
Our operational performance continued to be outstanding in the fourth quarter with 44% higher production volumes for the fourth quarter '11 and 12% higher sequentially than the third quarter of '12.
We also realized 43% higher gathering volumes than last year and continued low operating -- low per-unit operating cost in both businesses.
However commodity prices were 16% lower than the same period last year resulting in lower operating income and cash flow despite the operational accomplishments.
In the fourth quarter EQT recorded $8.2 million of net income or $0.05 per diluted share again related to the noncontrolling interest unitholders at EQM.
Also in the fourth quarter EQT announced that we have entered into a definitive agreement for the transfer of our natural gas Distribution business Equitable Gas Company to Peoples Natural Gas.
We will receive cash proceeds of $720 million subject to certain purchase price adjustments and select midstream assets and commercial arrangements which are expected to generate at least $40 million in EBITDA.
We and Peoples Natural Gas are working very hard to receive the necessary regulatory approvals by year-end 2013.
But of course many factors can influence that timing.
So we will keep you apprised as we move through the process.
Concurrent with the announcement we also reduced the EQT dividend to reflect the blend of EQT's 2 remaining core businesses: a dividend-supporting Midstream business and a capital-intensive rapidly growing Production business.
Now moving onto a brief discussion of results by segment and I will limit my discussion to the full-year results as the explanation for the full year also tend to apply to the fourth quarter.
And starting with EQT production operating results.
As have been the case for 3 years now the big story in '12 at EQT production was the growth in sales of produced natural gas.
As I mentioned the growth rate was 33% for the year driven by sales from our Marcellus wells which contributed 58% of the volumes in 2012 up from 42% in '11.
The EQT average wellhead sales price was $4.26 per Mcfe in 2012 or $1.11 lower than last year.
The realized price drop resulted from lower NYMEX natural gas prices and lower liquids prices which were only partially offset by an increase in our hedging gains.
For segment reporting purposes of that $4.26 per Mcfe of revenue realized at EQT Corp.
$3.5 per Mcf was allocated to EQT Production and the remaining $1.21 per Mcf to EQT Midstream.
The majority of this $1.21 at Midstream is for gathering which averaged $1.02 per Mcf for the year and $0.99 for the fourth quarter of 2012 down from an average of $1.11 per Mcf in 2011.
The Marcellus gathering rate as you know is significantly lower than the rates in our other plays.
So as Marcellus volumes grow as a percentage of the total the average gathering rate tends to go down.
This downward path will continue this year and we expect the rate to trend down to an average of about $0.85 per Mcf in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The unit realized price for EQT Production was 25% lower than last year again primarily driven by lower NYMEX prices.
The impact of higher volumes and lower realized price in '12 resulted in EQT Production revenues of just under $794 million which was essentially flat with 2011.
On the other hand total operating expenses of production were $202 million higher year-over-year.
Absolute DD&amp;A SG&amp;A LOE and production taxes were all higher consistent with the significant production growth.
DD&amp;A represented about $152 million or 75% of that increase in total operating expenses at production and was driven by the higher volume and higher depletion rates.
Consistent with prior quarters this year production SG&amp;A expenses were up in the year-over-year comparison as a result of higher corporate overhead and commercial services allocations which were adjusted in 2012 to more closely track activity and the importance of this segment to the company.
Absolute LOE was a bit higher year-over-year.
However volume increases have been outpacing the general trend of higher absolute expenses and as you would expect per unit LOE was lower again in 2012 by about $0.02 per unit or 10% to $0.18 per Mcfe for 2012.
As you model full-year 2013 we expect DD&amp;A expense to be $1.54 per Mcfe in 2013.
Moving on to the Midstream business.
Excluding gains on asset sales in 2011 operating income here was up 11% consistent with the 30% growth in gathered volumes that resulted in a 21% increase in gathering net operating revenues.
Transition net revenues also increased by almost 16% year-over-year as a result of added Equitrans capacity mainly from the Sunrise Expansion Project and increased throughput.
On the other hand the line item titled Storage Marketing and Other Net Operating Income was down about $22 million for the year.
This part of the Midstream business as you now realize on seasonal volatility and spreads in the forward curve and those continued to trend down in 2012 versus 2011.
For 2013 we expect revenues from Storage Marketing and Other to be approximately $30 million.
Net operating expenses at Midstream were about 11% higher year-over-year consistent with the growth of the Midstream business.
About $10.3 million of the increase is as a result of a favorable property tax reserve adjustment in 2011.
So absolute costs were up a bit.
However we continue to experience the benefits of scale as unit gathering and compression expenses at Midstream were lower than in 2011.
Finally our standard liquidity update.
We did close the year in a great liquidity position with 0 net short-term debt outstanding under our $1.5 billion revolver and $182 million of cash on the balance sheet.
Based on current commodity prices we continue to forecast approximately $1 billion in operating cash flow for 2013.
We expect to fund our $1.5 billion 2013 CapEx forecast with that cash flow and cash on hand at year end and available liquidity as well as proceeds from Midstream assets sale drop downs to EQM later in 2013.
And with that I'll turn it over to Dave Porges.
Thank you Phil.
As Phil summarized operationally we are coming off another record year with record volumes at Production and at Midstream and the forecast of another record year in 2013.
Of course our report of 2012 earnings again makes it apparent that there are many transaction gains and transaction-related charges that probably create some challenges for investors seeking to analyze normalized results.
In the past 2 calendar years we sold the processing plant sold a FERC-regulated pipeline formed the master limited partnership and executed an initial public offering of its units issued $750 million of long-term debt and announced the sale of Equitable Gas Company subject to regulatory approval.
These transactions have all fit into our overall strategic theme that we needed to make some tough decisions to reallocate capital in order to provide transparency for us as well as for investors for the financing of our growth opportunities for this foreseeable future.
To summarize where we stand as a result of all that we have $182 million in cash on hand at year end as Phil said.
We have visibility of a sizable drop into our MLP in the second half of this year which will provide another cash infusion to EQT.
And we expect proceeds from the utility sale within about a year.
Of course the MLP is expected to provide an ongoing source of capital which would result in the Midstream operations being self-funded.
So our core businesses are growing profitably and rapidly.
Our MLP is growing profitably and rapidly.
We've addressed our funding concerns for the foreseeable future and our operational performance has been on or above plan for at least 12 quarters.
We will continue to look at capital allocation decisions aggressively but now with a more single-minded focus on longer-term improvement of the shareholder value proposition and less influenced by near-term funding needs.
Switching to operational matters we announced the 12% increase in proved reserves over last year all coming from the Marcellus and there were some ins and outs as to what was bought.
Some Tier 3 wells previously booked our uneconomical last year's average price which for NYMEX was under $3 as you know and were therefore moved from PUD to probable while we added new Tier 1 and Tier 2 wells into proved.
We also booked 23% higher EURs on average on 25% of our wells to reflect the 30-foot reduced cluster spacing.
We also reduced our spacing between laterals proportions of our Greene County acreage to 500 feet from 1 000 feet.
Though all of the things being equal that down spacing also had the effect of some small decrease in average EUR which was more than offset by increasing well counts and reserves.
On a 3P basis Marcellus reserves increased by 18%.
The other notable change was we booked 2.4 Tcf of 3P reserves for Upper Devonian and a very small amount of 3P for Utica our first booking of reserves from these plays with all of the Utica bookings pertaining to our small Ohio position.
We are drilling wells in both plays this year to better estimate the reserve potential.
From a sales volume guidance standpoint we reiterated our 2013 production sales volume estimate of 335 to 340 Bcfe 31% higher than in 2012.
Liquids volumes in 2013 are projected between 3.9 million and 4 million barrels significantly higher than our previous guidance.
Our original guidance had 2 significant conservatisms or conservative assumptions.
First even though the Mobley plant was being commissioned at the time we were completing our business plan we did not want to presume a flawless startup process at the plant.
We were somewhat conservative about our schedule to fill the plant.
As it turns out MarkWest was able to quickly get the plant running efficiently.
Secondly we have been able to accelerate that schedule for filling the new capacity.
Our current forecast is based on our existing firm capacity contracts even though we are working to secure additional interruptible capacity.
The forecast assumes no interruptible capacity so there may be some upside if we are successful on that endeavor.
For the first quarter 2013 we are forecasting a daily production sales rate that is pretty flat with the rate we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2012 possibly a little bit higher.
Of course maintaining that fourth quarter daily rate would result in first quarter 2013 volumes being well over 35% higher than the first quarter 2012.
In fact as you saw last year the volume growth at EQT can look pretty consistent when full-year averages are examined.
It is quite lumpy when looked out over shorter periods of time due to our use of multi-well pads to develop our acreage in addition to the normal issues regarding the turning in light of new infrastructure projects.
As we examine our till dates for multi-well pads and infrastructure projects sequential growth is expected to tick up into the double digits again in the second quarter of 2013 which would be a result in the growth pattern for 2013 not being as back-end loaded as it was in 2012.
Each quarter we will give you some feel for the following quarter so you can better model those quarterly results.
In anticipation of your questions I would like to update you on a couple of previously discussed topics.
First MLP drop downs.
We are currently targeting a sizable drop down in the second half of 2013 to fund 2013 Midstream CapEx.
We do also continue to evaluate the possibility of a very small drop down in the first half of this year to work through the logistics of a drop.
But the entire purpose of such a small transaction would be to serve as a sort of dry run.
The size of such a drop if it does occur would be pretty immaterial to EQT's results.
Second the Tioga sale.
As we mentioned we have approximately 8 300 acres in Tioga County Pennsylvania.
We ran a data-room process and we're not persuaded by the biz that the right answer currently is to sell.
Given our strong liquidity position we have the luxury of not needing to transact in the near future and we will keep the acreage in our portfolio at least for now.
As we have stated many times we are not bothered by the prospect of stopping a sale process if we do not like what we see in the market.
Often a formal process is the only way to test market value.
And we believe that we do transact enough to convince prospective buyers so that we do not habitually get cold feet.
Finally we finished drilling our first Utica well in Ohio this month.
We are scheduled to move the rig to drill a second Utica well this quarter then plan to move that rig to West Virginia while we permit the other Ohio drilling locations.
The first Utica well is scheduled to be frac-ed in mid-February and we are certainly interested to find out what we have but we will not have pipes of the well until about mid-year.
In summary EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by accelerating the monetization of our reserves and other opportunities.
We continue to be focused on earning the highest possible returns from our investments and are doing what we can to increase the value of your shares.
We are in strong financial shape and have visibility on sourcing the needed capital.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholder and appreciate your continued support.
And with that I'll turn it -- the call back over to Pat.
Thank you Dave.
This concludes the comment portion of the call.
Amy can you please now open the call for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Neal Dingmann at SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First guys just on M&amp;A when you look at obviously you're in pretty strong financial position now.
How aggressive beyond kind of what you said and then maybe in conjunction with that you've obviously established a nice little footprint thus far in the Utica just wondering I guess that's something you'll continue to pursue.
Yes we'll -- look we'll continue to look at whatever opportunities we think make the most sense for the company.
On the -- look on the acreage side the real focus is trying to build up more contiguous position to wherever we have acreage whether it's the Utica or in Greene County et cetera.
On the sales side of that equation we would still classify the CBM as being noncore for us.
We don't really see when we'll develop it.
So there's kind of a timing issue there and at some point we continue to feel that the right answer on the Huron is to get some form of other people's money.
So we continue to look at both sides of that M&amp;A equation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just secondly lastly just on you guys continue to just do a fantastic job on cost containment and just wondering for maybe yourself or Steve just wondering how much costs can continue to come down we look at this year maybe for guidance or how should we think about it for modeling just on kind of typical LOEs? I guess going forward I mean there should be more pad drilling or how should we look at it? Well Steve is going to be the one who has to explain whatever comments we make to for the folks in production.
So I'll let him answer the question.
Well Neal I can't give you specifics on LOE targets but I will say as always we continue to focus on finding ways to be more efficient drill and produce these wells as efficiently as we possibly can.
And I think as a result of our strong growth that we expect to continue you just get some inherent economies of scale.
So I just think naturally you'll -- we should continue to see our unit costs decline.
And I think without giving you specifics I think what you've seen in the past that's the reason to believe we can continue in the future for quite -- for some time.
Our next question comes from Scott Hanold at RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll be a little bit more direct to one of the questions that Neal asked.
On the Utica you have 13 000 acres there.
Obviously considering the size of EQT that's not very material necessarily but I mean how competitive is out there and what do you think likelihood is of you adding a significant acreage position and what appears to be the core in that play? Well Neal -- or I mean Scott.
Sorry.
I think we agree of 15 000 acres is fairly immaterial to EQT at this point.
Our view going in was we really need to have a minimum of 50 000 acres for us to feel like the effort was worthwhile.
So I think we continue to look at it.
I think step 1 for us is to get the results from these test wells understand a little better what the economics of the play are in the area that we've targeted.
Obviously it's an area that we're excited about.
Competitive results have been good.
Geologically it's at the area that we chose to focus on.
So I think conceptually pending results we think a minimum of 50 000 acres is what will make sense.
However if we find that we can't get there or disappointed in the results I think we'd be willing to step back from that as well.
So -- but I think clearly holding a 15 000-acre position for the long term likely doesn't make sense for EQT.
So we will either increase or it'll go to 0.
And in context Scott as you probably recall that's the same logic we had when we got into the Tioga position and we wound up concluding that for a variety of reasons and a lot of them being competitive reasons.
It was going to be tough to get that sort of position in Tioga which is the reason that we started backing away from the idea of it being a potential core area.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes how sensitive to you are on acreage cost? I know a lot of companies will take a look at paying $20 000 an acre for example and you do the math on no resources in place and it can look a little bit more immaterial.
So I mean how sensitive to you are kind of some of those kind of a high-level acreage numbers? Well I think we're sensitive to economics.
So in the specifics of individual plays drive what numbers make sense.
So I wouldn't say any particular number we view as high or low.
It's got to be within the context of the economics.
I will say just to reflect back a few years I remember when $500 an acre in the Marcellus felt crazy high to us until we understood what the Marcellus was all about and obviously $500 an acre now would feel like a steal.
So we don't set particular per-acre targets.
We look at the economics and what kind of returns we think we can generate.
But of course we haven't done anything close to the numbers that you've talked about Scott and those kinds of numbers though would probably make most sense not just for us but for others at least in this area if you're trying to fill in a position.
It's hard to place what the value is if you're filling in the proverbial doughnut hole so that you can -- it completely changes your development plan versus when you're getting into a newer area.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
That's fair enough.
I appreciate the color.
One quick question for Phil.
Did you say cash at the end of the year was $182 million because I think...
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wasn't it like $600-and-some-odd million at the end of third quarter? So I'm just trying to square the circle on that one.
To be honest I don't recall the third quarter number but it's obviously it's available in the Q in the third quarter.
As I mentioned in my comments we used $200 million of our liquidity to pay off that maturity of the debt that we didn't end up using the interest rate hedges up on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay but there's no cash like in investment or anything else that's the cash position is $182 million.
That's our cash position right? No short-term debt and a $182 million on the...
But again the biggest reason for the reduction from September 30 would have been paying off that $200-some-million what had been long-term debt but of course was listed as a current maturity by the time we paid it off.
The next question comes from Phillip Jungwirth at BMO Capital Markets.
Wanted to ask about down spacing in Greene County.
I believe your prior 1 300 Tier 1 location count was based on 1 000 feet spacing between laterals.
If you're able to go down to 500 feet spacing is it fair to assume that this Tier 1 location count could double at least in Greene County and then can you quantify what the impact to the EUR would be? Well I think it's a little early for us to conclude that 500-foot spacing works everywhere in Greene County.
So it was only portions of Greene County where we've done that.
We're going to continue to test down spacing.
We're testing 750 feet.
We're testing 500 and we'll use what's appropriate.
But certainly I think the fact that we've concluded that 500 works in certain areas it certainly makes us optimistic that we'll find that some form of down spacing works more broadly.
Okay.
And then is there any reason why the Marcellus PDP didn't increase more year-over-year given the 309 Bcfe of additions that you have there? Yes there is a reason.
This year when we were looking at our booking methodology based on longer laterals reduced cluster spacing multi-well pads we're finding that a higher percentage of our costs are being spent on the completion phase versus the drilling phase.
So previously when we had TD to well we would book that well as proved developed either nonproducing or PDP if it was frac-ed and in line but generally it's proved developed nonproducing.
Based on the higher ship to cost later in the process we thought it was more appropriate this year to start booking wells as proved non -- proved develop nonproducing after they've been frac-ed.
So there's a significant amount of less reserves in the proved developed nonproducing category this year which is really a one-time shift.
So you shouldn't see this again next year.
But there's about 400 Bcf less PDP reserves this year than there was last year as a result of that.
Our next question comes from Ray Deacon at Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Steve I just want to ask one follow-up on that.
Is -- do you provide how many uncompleted wells that were at year-end '12 versus year-end '11? And also how many of the locations you drill in 2013 would you expect to have reduced cluster spacing and in the higher reserve number? I don't think we provide the first number you asked for Ray.
The second one if I can find the specific number it's 88% of our Marcellus wells we expect to use 30-foot cluster spacing.
I think that's 132.
I might be off 1 or 2.
Our next question comes from Bob Parija at Soc Gen.
Just as a follow-up could you provide a split between the PDP and the PUD bookings? You gave an average for the quarter -- sorry for the year.
Not sure I follow it.
The split between the PDP reserves and the PUD reserves that's sort of a follow-up to questions previously announced.
Split the proved reserves into PDP PUDs.
PDP versus PUD? In the Marcellus.
In the Marcellus.
I don't know if I have -- do you have Marcellus specifics? Yes the proved developed Marcellus total was 1.1 T the proved undeveloped was 3.2.
And actually what was the EUR assumption on each of those? They're both in line with the average.
That's why we didn't break it up.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Patrick Kane for any closing remarks.
Thank you Amy and thank you everyone for participating.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's event.
You may now disconnect.
Hello and welcome to the EQT Corporation First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Patrick Kane Chief Investor Relations officer.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Amy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today with me are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream Distribution and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Senior Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a 7-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 p.m.
this afternoon.
The telephone number for the replay is (412) 317-0088.
The confirmation code is 10025391.
The call will also be replayed for 7 days on our website.
To remind you EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM's results are consolidated in EQT's results.
There was a separate press release issued by EQM this morning and there's a separate conference call today at 11:30 which creates a hard stop for this call at 11:25.
If you're interested in the EQM call the dial-in number is (412) 317-6789.
The confirmation code is 10025400.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT's operational and financial results then Dave will provide an update on our strategic and operational matters.
Following Dave's remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will all be available to answer your questions.
I would like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements related to the future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today's press release and under Risk Factors in EQT's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 filed with the SEC as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which were also filed with the SEC.
Today's call may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning's press release for our important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
With that I would like to turn it over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced first quarter 2013 earnings of $0.66 per diluted share a 38% increase from EPS in the first quarter of 2012.
Operating cash flow also increased by 34% to $304 million for the quarter.
We had a very solid operational quarter including record produced natural gas sales as well as record gathering volumes at Midstream.
The high level story for first quarter at EQT was strong volume growth coupled with lower unit cash cost in both the production and the Midstream businesses which was partially offset by lower realized commodity prices.
Even though NYMEX was 22% higher than the previous year we realized a lower effective natural gas price after accounting for the effect of our hedges as the number of higher-priced swaps and collars rolled off at the end of 2012.
Also NGL prices were 23% lower versus the same quarter last year.
Earnings at our distribution segment were higher than last year as a result of weather that was back to normal as compared to the record warm winter that we had last year.
As a reminder EQT Midstream Partner results are consolidated within EQT Corporation's results and EQT recorded $9 million of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests or $0.06 per diluted share in the first quarter.
Moving on to the segments starting with EQT Production operating results.
The story in the quarter at EQT Production continues to be the growth in sales of produced natural gas.
The growth rate as you saw was 47% in the recently completed quarter over the fourth -- first quarter of 2012.
That growth rate was all organic and the growth was driven by sales from our Marcellus Shale play which saw volume growth of 103% year-over-year.
NGL volumes were also higher 52% versus last year.
As I already mentioned the average realized gas price was lower in the quarter.
The realized price at EQT Production was $3.14 per MCFE compared to $3.59 per MCFE last year.
At the corporate level EQT received $4.27 per MCFE or 12% less than last year.
Produced liquids excluding ethane accounted for 6% of the volume and 23% of the unhedged revenues in the quarter.
Total operating expenses at Production were $40 million or 29% higher quarter-over-quarter.
Higher DD&amp;A expense accounted for $38 million of the $40 million increase and was driven by the volume growth as the average completion rate was essentially unchanged.
Production taxes were $4.2 million lower but I remind you that last year in the first quarter we recorded a $6.2 million charge related to  PA Impact Fees that was related to periods prior to 2012.
Excluding that EQT actually experienced an increase of $2 million in Production taxes consistent with the higher volumes.
Other operating expenses at Production were $6 million or 18% higher.
Since sales are growing at a significantly faster pace than expenses per unit cost continue to obviously improve.
Per unit LOE excluding production taxes was 20% lower at $0.16 per MCFE and per unit SG&amp;A was 26% lower at $0.29 per MCFE.
Moving onto the Midstream business.
Operating income here was up 32%.
This is consistent with the growth of gathered volumes and increased capacity-based transmission charges and increases in interruptible transmission volumes and revenue.
Gathering net operating revenues increased by $12.6 million as gathering volumes increased by 42% in the quarter while the average gathering rate declined by 16%.
The decline in rate continues to be driven by the increasing Marcellus mix.
The Huron gathering fee remained unchanged at a $1.35 per MCF while the average Marcellus gathering fee declined by 9% to $0.60 per MCF.
Transmission net revenues increased by $14.4 million while storage marketing and other net operating revenues was down $5.2 million in the first quarter.
Margins at storage continue to deteriorate year-over-year due to the lack of winter-summer spread in the gas prices and low day-to-day volatility in gas prices.
Given current market conditions we still estimate the full year 2013 net revenues in storage marketing and other will be approximately $30 million.
Net operating expenses at Midstream were $3.7 million higher quarter-over-quarter mainly from higher depreciation expense consistent with our capital investments and growth.
On a per unit basis gathering and compression expense was down 32% to $0.19 per MCFE as a result of higher throughput while maintaining our cost structure.
Based on the higher estimated volumes we are increasing our 2013 EBITDA estimate at Midstream to between $350 million and $355 million.
Moving on to Distribution operating income at Distribution was 29% higher after excluding $5 million of revenue applicable to prior periods recorded in the first quarter as a result of the completion of a routine purchased gas cost audit.
Adjusted for that the remaining increase in operating income is explained by weather as I mentioned.
First quarter 2013 weather was in line with the 30-year average but much colder than last year which according to NOAA was the warmest first quarter on record in the service territory as measured by heating degree days.
As a result adjusted net operating revenue for the first quarter at Distribution in '13 was 16% higher while operating expenses were essentially flat.
Final note on 2013 cash flow as a result of the higher forecasted natural gas prices for our unhedged volumes we are increasing our operating cash flow estimate for 2013 to be approximately $1.1 billion based on the current strip.
We did take advantage of the recent run up in natural gas prices to add to our hedge position for 2013 and 2014.
We're approximately 60% hedged for the remainder of '13 and around 30% hedged for 2014.
We exited the quarter with $160 million in cash on hand no short-term debt and full availability under our $1.5 billion credit facility.
So we remain in great liquidity position for 2013 and beyond.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Dave Porges.
Thank you Phil.
As Phil summarized operationally we are coming off another record quarter with record volumes at Production and Midstream.
Before discussing business operations I will update you on several housekeeping items.
First we have a status update on the regulatory reviews related to the sale of our gas utility Equitable Gas Company.
April 22 marked the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act.
The Federal Trade Commission has completed its assessment of the proposed transaction and we are free to proceed from an HSR perspective.
We've also submitted filings with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission West Virginia Public Service Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and we'll soon file with the Kentucky Public Service Commission.
Each of which must approve the transaction as part of the regulatory process.
We continue to expect to receive all necessary approvals by year-end.
Second MLP drops.
We intend to execute a significant drop in the third quarter as planned.
We expect that EQT Midstream Partners funding of the acquisition will include the issuance of additional equity units.
As we have discussed before the MLP becomes eligible to file a shelf registration statement with the SEC in early July and we expect that it will file such a shelf registration at that time in order to start the SEC registration process.
The registration statement once declared effective by the SEC will allow for the issuance of equity and debt.
If the SEC review is uneventful we expect to be able to complete the drop in the third quarter as previously discussed.
Now on previous calls we have discussed the possibility of doing a very small drop in the first half of 2013.
As we prepared for the so-called test drop we realized that the time commitment and fixed cost related to a small drop are quite similar to those related to a larger drop.
Therefore we decided not to proceed with the small drop but rather focus our efforts on a successful large drop in the second half of the year.
In anticipation of your questions related to specific timing and size of the third quarter drop please keep in mind that SEC rules limit what we're allowed to discuss in advance of security offerings and intend to comply with those restrictions.
What I can say which we have said in the past is that we intend to fund our Midstream CapEx investments and proceeds from drops to -- with  proceeds from the drops to EQT Midstream Partners.
My third housekeeping item is that we finished frac-ing our first Utica well as planned.
And it is 	shut-in waiting for gathering line which is on schedule for midyear.
We completed drilling our second Utica well and we'll be frac-ing it soon.
And we will spot a third Utica well this month.
Finally as has been our normal we're providing Production sales guidance for the current quarter.
Based on our current pad completion schedule we expect second quarter Production sales to be approximately 85 Bcfe.
Now I want to return to our operations.
As I said the first quarter was another very good quarter for EQT.
Production exceeded its business plan on both revenues and expenses driven by volumes that exceeded guidance by 4%.
The increased volumes flowed through our Midstream gathering and transmission systems driving the growth in those businesses.
And Equitable Gas Company demonstrated its ability to earn a solid return when Mother Nature cooperates.
We had our first normal winter in sometime void by a persistently colder and normal March and I add that note for the benefit of those of you who did not have the pleasure of experiencing it firsthand.
And the results reflect the commitment our team has to providing safe and reliable service to our utility customers.
Production volumes were higher than expected -- higher than expectations from turning pads and lines faster than planned from wells performing better than expected.
We have discussed the lumpiness of Production growth resulting from the specific timing of turning pads and lines and I will not bore you with the results from every pad but I do wish to share some examples.
In Greene County we turned in line an 8-well pad with an average length of 5 800 feet starting at the end of October.
The 30-day IP of the pad was 116 million cubic feet or 14.5 million cubic feet per well per day.
While too early to estimate precisely this corresponds to an EUR of 15 Bcfe per well or 2.6 Bcfe per thousand feet of padding.
Other Greene County pad was turned in line in December.
This pad had 4 wells on an average length of 7 300 feet.
The 30-day IP was 94.1 million cubic feet per day or 23.5 million cubic feet per well per day.
This corresponds to an EUR of 14.3 Bcfe per well or just under 2 Bcfe per thousand feet of padding.
To help you with the math that's 6.25 Bcf total production from the first month of production from just those 2 pads.
Shifting to West Virginia recently we have been getting a lot more questions from investors about our position in this state.
As many of you know we have been bullish on West Virginia for some time.
Our drilling activity there which represents 55% of our 2013 Marcellus drilling is focused in our liquids-rich acreage in Doddridge Ritchie and Wetzel counties where we have approximately 80 000 acres.
We have begun implementing reduced cluster spacing in Doddridge and Ritchie with tremendous initial success.
In Doddridge we have 8 wells frac-ed with reduced cluster spacing and online for more than 30 days.
These wells are significantly shorter than we prefer due to some land issues as they average 2 900 feet in lateral pay but the results are still impressive.
The average 30-day IP was 8 million cubic feet per well per day which corresponds to an EUR of 5.7 Bcfe per well or just under 2 Bcfe per 1 000 feet of pay.
As a footnote all of the EUR estimates I am quoting for wet gas using industry norm of converting extracted liquids to MCFE at a ratio of 6 MCFE per barrel.
The quoted EURs in the wet areas would be higher still if we assumed all ethane in the gas stream were extracted and therefore converted at that ratio.
In Ritchie we only have 5 wells online with an average length of 5 640 feet 2 were frac-ed using 30-foot spacing and 3 with 60-foot spacing.
The average 30-day IP was 9.2 million cubic feet per well per day which corresponds to an EUR of 11 Bcfe per well or just under 2 Bcfe per 1 000 feet of pay.
In Wetzel we also only have 5 wells online all frac-ed with 60-foot spacing.
The average length per well is 3 680 feet.
The average 30-day IP in Wetzel was 7.4 million cubic feet per well per day which corresponds to an EUR of 7.3 Bcfe per well or 2 Bcfe per 1 000 feet of pay.
We are testing 30-foot cluster completions in Wetzel this year.
As you can see when we normalize for lateral length which is how we evaluate well productivity internally these 17 West Virginia wells with EURs per 1 000 feet of just under 2 Bcfe are more productive than our Tier 1 average which is 1.7 Bcfe per 1 000 feet.
And the economics are enhanced by the liquids content and by the higher energy content of the residual gas stream.
As you read in this morning's press release or as you've read in this morning's press release we increased our 2013 Production sales volume guidance to be 33% higher than last year and we initiated 2014 guidance at nearly 30% growth over the midpoint of the higher 2013 target.
To remind you 2013 Production is primarily determined by our 2012 drilling program and similarly 2014 is largely determined by our 2013 program.
That is why we are confident giving our preliminary 2014 guidance.
As we look at our extensive Marcellus inventory in both Pennsylvania and West Virginia we are confident that our assets can support growth of more than 20% for several years.
Furthermore with proceeds from the sale of the utility and a continued source of capital through drops of Midstream assets to EQM we are in strong financial shape and have visibility on sourcing the needed capital.
In summary EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by accelerating the monetization of our reserves and other opportunities.
We continue to be focused on earning the highest possible returns from our investments and we are doing what we can to increase the value of your shares.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and we appreciate your continued support.
And with that I'll turn the call over back to Pat.
Thank you Dave.
Amy let's open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Neal Dingmann from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Steve or Dave I'm just wondering first just turning to the bit of the Utica that you have you mentioned about going after and drilling the third well.
Wondering given the acreage that you have as far as kind of lateral length design what ultimately you want to do and if you continue to rest those wells kind of like a lot of the peers 60 days or so? Yes Neal this is Steve.
Regarding the resting I think we're kind of open-minded about that.
I think we're going to test it and see and sort of by necessity on these first wells since we're waiting on the gathering system they will be rested.
So we may...
Well rested.
Well rested yes.
So we expect to start flowing those wells midyear.
Regarding lateral length I think we're still believers that in all these shale plays longer is better.
So we drill as long as we can given the acreage position we have.
I think on this first group of wells I don't have a specific number but on average the lateral lengths are fairly long north of 5 000 feet per well.
So we're pretty happy about that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I know you've probably said you liked to maybe go after more data just wondering if you could comment Steve about how that's going? And again I know you previously said that you would rather do it in the liquid side.
Would you entertain looking at some of the Utica more on the eastern dry gas side or just stay more in the fairway? Well I think it's all interesting to us and we monitor results from our competitors who have more data than we have at this point.
But I think we're pretty confident in our drilling and completion capabilities.
So if good results are coming out of the gasier side of the play that would certainly be of interest.
I think we view similarly to how we view the Marcellus drier gas areas.
But for now our current acreage is in the wetter part of the Utica and we're going to wait for results like everybody else and see what we have.
Neal you had mentioned the liquids.
And actually just to clarify we tended to be more interested in wet gas at the areas that kind of get into the if you will condensate window.
We haven't really been all that interested in the so-called black oil part of the play at least not to date.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great clarification.
Thanks Dave.
And then just last question.
You guys continue to have just great results continue to expand particularly in the Marcellus but wondering Steve if you could comment about the design on the Upper Devonian seems like even those results sort of continue to expand.
So I guess number 1 basically using the same technique complacent -- drilling and complacent techniques there as you do in the Marcellus.
And 2 if so what are we talking as far as drilling locations? It sounds like that could really pick up materially given all your -- even the Devonian potential on top of the Marcellus? Neal I think first I want to remind you that it's very early in our experimentation of that so we only have a handful of wells.
But it is something we're pretty excited about.
And you can see we're continuing to drill probably even a little bit ahead of where we thought we'd be in terms of numbers of Upper Devonian wells at this point in the year.
When we look at that we think we have at the current time with limited information about 170 000 acres that are perspective.
We are using similar techniques not always exactly the same techniques.
It depends on the geology and the mineralogy of the reservoir.
And I think we will have to experiment to see what the appropriate lateral spacing and stage spacing is in the Upper Devonian.
So there's still a lot of variables that are unknown to us in terms of quantifying the total resource potential.
But I think our best guess right now is 170 000 acres we think will be economic.
And that's -- we'll start off with 1 000 foot spacing and see if it makes sense to go closer than that.
Our next question comes from Stephen Richardson at Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
Just appreciate all the color particularly around West Virginia and the Greene County results.
In context of your comments David can you help us a little bit on the -- I noticed your latest investor presentation Slide 34 which looks like it was just reposted you still have the same tiering and type curves that's been there for some time if I'm not mistaken.
Can you talk a little bit about not only in terms of where in the tiering we could see some upside but also where in that tiering too we should be thinking about reduced cluster impact in terms of on impacts on EURs.
So I guess 2 kinds of drivers there and again where would the upside be? We're always relooking at those.
I recognize that it's not -- perhaps they're not completely keeping up with current results.
Some of what we discussed of course had to do with new results in from West Virginia in particular but also in how we wind up characterizing the liquids.
And we're trying to provide information on EUR that is more consistent say with what other folks have done.
So I think it's kind of a watch-this-space type of thing.
We will continue to look at what those type curves are to make sure that they are reflecting the -- our current thought process.
But I'd say probably the biggest issue that we've got is making sure that we bring our way of characterizing the liquids a little bit more in into line with folks in the industry have done.
And that's the reason that we have quoted the EURs and the EURs per foot the way we did.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up I guess is 122-acre spacing the right way to be thinking about Greene County? We don't really like to talk about acres per well.
It's driven so much by lateral length and lateral spacing.
So I think right now in Greene County it's looking like in the bulk of Greene County 500-foot lateral spacing and we try and drill as long as we can.
But the spacing per well for a 10 000-foot well is twice the acreage than it is for a 5 000-foot well.
So it's not a term we use internally very much but I think I would maybe use our average spacing of around -- or length of 5 000 feet with 500-foot lateral spacing as a reasonable approximation of our per well drainage.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Thanks for the clarification.
One more if I could was could you give us just a little bit perhaps on 2014 what we should expect directionally in terms of CapEx to go with that production number at this point.
I know it's a little early but is that the right assumption? I'd rather not give guidance on that only because the board is the obviously the group that approves that.
Our real point in providing the 2014 guidance now was that 2014 production isn't really that dependent upon 2014 capital.
It's a pretty small amount of capital relative to say what the total that we're spending this year that would be required to hit that kind of guidance.
But as we mentioned with these multi-well pads with long laterals there is a relatively long lead time.
So you really do have to look we think at least the way we conduct the operation you have to look at 2013 capital and results to kind of get a sense of what 2014 volumes are going to be like.
The 2014 capital is going to have much more impact on the 2015 volumes.
But certainly we do have the liquidity to -- I mean we have the liquidity certainly to continue spending at the pace that we've been spending.
Next question comes from Phillip Jungwirth at BMO Capital Markets.
You mentioned that you drilled 6 Upper Devonian wells in the quarter.
I don't think you talked about any results.
Are any of those wells on sale then could you talk about the results that you've seen from those? I think we've turned in line a couple of those but we're -- it's too early to talk about the results.
And then in the Utica you talked about targeting at least 50 000 net acres.
With gas prices having moved up and also chatter about some pretty strong results out of the dry gas window is that something that you would consider targeting in your leasing efforts or you're still focused in the wet gas part of the play? Yes.
I mean I think our -- we do have an interest in consolidating the position that we have.
And the dry gas area would be a separate area that again we monitor the results and at some point we may find that attractive but for now we're focused on our core Marcellus position and building a position in the area where we have Utica acreage that give us enough scale to be efficient.
And of course as you know we do have a fair amount of dry Utica acreage that's under our Marcellus acreage.
The issue isn't just that it's dry though.
It's that as we move further to the east it's deeper.
So it increases the costs.
So it's not just the fact that the gas is dry that causes some concern.
It's that it's deeper.
And certainly I'll mention that the front part of the curve has moved up a lot.
The back hasn't really moved up that much.
So we've got a pretty flat curve which is good for cash flows and good for economics because it brings cash flows forward but it doesn't materially impact how you view longer-term prospects.
Got it makes sense.
And then on the RCS in West Virginia you previously talked about 1/3 of the acreage -- 1/3 of your Marcellus acreage can be developed using RCS.
Were you concluding the West Virginia wells in that 1/3 or is that incremental? I don't recall what exactly what went into the 1/3 but I can tell you that we are now doing reduced cluster spacing in the bulk of the areas we're drilling in West Virginia and really -- so Doddridge and Richie.
And in Wetzel we are currently experimenting with it.
But I would say I have high confidence that 30-foot clusters is going to prove to be the preferred method in Wetzel County.
So I think in the areas we're currently drilling in West Virginia the percentage of RCS completions will be very high.
And last question on EQM I think you'd previously talked about targeting a coverage ratio of 1.1x.
In the first quarter it was closer to 1.9.
Is 1.1 still the longer-term target we should expect there? That certainly was the target we talked about when we marketed the deal.
It's going to vary quarter to quarter.
We tend to look at it as we think about distributions going forward a year or so.
I don't think we have an exact target but something a little north of 1.1 is probably the right number in the near term.
As I think we kind of hit it.
There's no doubt the desire with increases in distribution per unit is to try to find a rhythm that we could get into with some regularity to it as opposed to just having it match one quarter's results.
The next question comes from Holly Stewart at Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> First question maybe for Phil.
So I guess could you just talk about the progress on the tax implications for the LDC sale maybe any incremental thoughts about final sale proceeds? No we're not prepared to talk about that at all.
We're still working through some of that.
I think when we have the conference call for the deal we talked about I think basis of $160 million and we would expect to pay roughly 20% on deemed purchase price above that.
But we're not really ready to say anything more about that.
At this time we're still working through some things in terms of like kind exchange et cetera and it's just too early to talk about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Dave maybe you could comment on just kind of final use of proceeds after the LDC sale is finalized and then the drop-down process sort of begins? Yes.
I don't know that I have anything to add on what we would do with proceeds from the EGC sale.
I'd still rather see that transaction go through the rest of the approvals.
I mean as you know we did tend to focus a little bit more on the FDC approval only because of the unique history of these assets but for the most part what you focus on with gas utility M&amp;A transactions are the public utility commission -- public service commission approvals and we're still in the relatively early days of those.
So we're still kind of working -- even though -- so it's great for us that we're over this one hurdle that had been an issue in the past but now it turns into a more standard LDC M&amp;A process.
So I just assume not get ahead of ourselves there.
We're just trying to create value monetize reserves the way we can and I know if you're looking at acreage issues it's mainly what we're prioritizing still it's trying to see if there are opportunities to build around our current strong business.
We're still in the so-called donut holes those sorts of things.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was just trying to -- I mean it's a high-  class problem to have but just kind of thinking about as you enter 2014 you're going to have cash coming in from the LDC sale as well as the start of more significant drop-downs.
So just kind of thinking bigger picture again high-class problem to have but you will have a lot of incremental cash coming in the door.
That's true.
And I guess the message that we're trying to send through is that we will be disciplined about capital.
We've been disciplined about it for the last geez as long as I've been here which is -- it's amazing but it's coming up on 15 years now.
And we're not going to let money burn a hole in our pocket.
That's kind of what we're focused on as much as anything is a lot of these transactions are ones we enter into because we think they're the right thing to do not because we've got something else that we need to raise up and spend the money on.
Look I mean and that's a couple of people pointed out with more -- with some improvements and what the Marcellus results have been with the Upper Devonian et cetera may well be the that there's other opportunities down the road to increase the development but we just assume take a look at that based on the operational results.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
Okay.
And then maybe Dave just a strategic update around that Huron asset process that's been ongoing.
Well it is certainly true notwithstanding my comments of the prior call or about the back end of the curve not really having moved up much that the tenor of the discussions and the M&amp;A front are probably a little brighter when you've got higher front month and front year prices.
So we would certainly hope that we might be able to get something done but I don't have anything in particular to report.
Well I guess one thing I will reiterate that I think we've said a bit is at these prices at least the Huron is economically -- it is economically attractive to invest.
It's not as economically attractive to invest in the Huron as it is in the Marcellus and of course we do have a higher cost of capital than the Sandy and MLP [ph] would have because we enter into a higher-risk higher-return type of activities than all those folks do.
But it does clear our hurdle rates the way we have them set right now as a result of the increasing gas prices.
So we're hoping that that will lead to some opportunities along the lines that we've talked about strategically for the Huron but we don't have anything to report on it right now.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you Amy and thank you all for participating.
The conference has concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the EQT Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Patrick Kane Chief Investor Relations Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Yussaf and good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation's second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream Distribution and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Senior Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a 7-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
The telephone number for the replay is (412) 317-0088 with the confirmation code of 10025410.
The call will also be replayed for 7 days on our website.
To remind you the results of EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM are consolidated in EQT's results.
There is a separate press release issued by EQM this morning and there's a separate conference call today at 11:30 a.m.
which creates a hard stop for this call at 11:25.
If you're interested in the EQM call the dial-in number is (412) 317-6789 confirmation code 10025420.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT's operational and financial results for the second quarter which were released this morning then Dave will provide an update on strategic and operational matters.
Following Dave's remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements related to the future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today's press release and under Risk Factors in EQT's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 filed with the SEC as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which were on file at the SEC as well.
Today's call may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning's press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced second quarter 2013 earnings of $0.57 per diluted share a $0.36 per share increase versus the second quarter 2012 diluted earnings per share.
Those outstanding financial results were driven by another strong operating quarter at EQT.
Production sales volumes in the quarter were 54% higher than last year NGL volumes were 52% higher and midstream gathering volumes were up 50%.
These very positive 2013 second quarter results were slightly offset by the impact of $16 million in noncash incentive compensation expense that was about $6.7 million higher than last year as a result of the increase in EQT stock price improving our share total return relative to a group of industry peers which is a key driver for our incentive compensation plans.
In addition exploration expense was $4.3 million higher as a result of a $5.2 million noncash lease impairment.
These 2 variances lowered EPS in the quarter by $0.05 versus last year but had no impact on operating cash flow.
Operating cash flow in the quarter totaled $317 million or nearly double last year's $166 million of cash flow.
As Pat reminded you EQT Midstream Partners or EQM results are consolidated in EQT's results.
The impact of the noncontrolling interest is a little more clear on the income statement than it is in the cash flow results.
Net cash provided by operating activities at EQM was $26.1 million in the quarter and included in EQT's consolidated cash flow.
However please do note that not all of that cash flow is available to EQT as noncontrolling unitholders owned approximately 40% of EQM during the second quarter 2013 and currently they hold approximately 55.4% post the recent follow-on offering.
Clearly top line growth drove the relatively straightforward financial results in the quarter and I will now briefly summarize those by business units starting with EQT Production.
Our net Production sales volume continued to grow dramatically.
As we mentioned Production volume was 54% higher and that growth was driven by a 111% year-over-year increase in sales from our Marcellus Shale play.
Prices were also improved with the realized price at EQT Production of $3.30 per MCF equivalent compared to $2.62 last year or a 26% increase.
At the corporate level EQT received $4.37 per MCF equivalent compared to $3.83 received last year.
The average NYMEX gas price for the quarter was $4.09 per MCF compared to $2.22 last year.
Basis was approximately flat with NYMEX both years.
Two items impact the realized price this quarter.
First was the ineffectiveness of hedges totaling about $7.5 million which reduced our hedge gain in this quarter.
Second was the loss on the resell of unused capacity not under long-term contracts which totaled $8.3 million in the quarter.
We've been adding that number back to adjusted earnings as initially we saw noticeable swings from gains to losses quarter-to-quarter however this is the fifth quarter in a row where the loss has been relatively stable so we stopped adding the cost back to earnings beginning this quarter.
This shows up in our price reconciliation as third-party gathering and transmission.
Produced NGL volume was 52% higher than last year.
And as a reminder we do not include ethane in this calculation as it is currently sold mostly as methane.
Total operating expenses at EQT Production were higher quarter-over-quarter as a result of higher DD&amp;A exploration expense LOE and production taxes.
At the same time per unit LOE excluding Production taxes was down 20% to $0.16 per unit further improving our cost structure that is already among the best in the industry.
SG&amp;A was also down on a unit basis.
Those decreases were the result of produced volume growth that vastly outpaced higher costs.
Midstream results.
In the quarter operating income here was up 21% due to the growth of gathered volumes and increased capacity-based transmission evidence.
Gathering net revenues increased by $14.9 million as gathering volumes increased by 50% somewhat offset by a decrease in the average gathering rate of 19% due to the increase in Marcellus gathered volumes which are relatively less expensive to gather and therefore get charged a lower rate.
As Marcellus production continues to grow as a percentage of our total production mix the average gathering rate paid by EQT Production and other producers will continue to decline.
We expect our fourth quarter 2013 average rate to be $0.75 per MMBtu.
However EQT Midstream margins are expected to continue to be strong.
Midstream transmission net revenues also increased by 81% in the quarter driven by higher capacity charges and throughput.
Storage marketing and other net operating revenues was $9.2 million lower in the second quarter.
And as I've mentioned several times before the storage and marketing part of the Midstream business relies on natural gas price volatility and seasonal spreads in the forward curve and those have continued to decline.
Given current market conditions we currently expect full year 2013 net revenues in storage marketing and other will total approximately $30 million.
Net operating expenses at Midstream were up quarter-over-quarter however as in Production per unit gathering and transmission expense was 32% lower driven by the tremendous volume growth.
Just a couple quick notes on the balance sheet.
We closed the quarter with approximately $55 million in short-term debt.
But subsequent to quarter end we received $508 million in cash as well as some additional LP and GP units from the sale of Sunrise Pipeline to EQT Midstream Partners.
Dave will go into a little bit more detail in that in a minute but that gave us a current cash balance of approximately $400 million as of July 22.
We continue to have full availability under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility.
Our operating cash flow estimate for 2013 is slightly higher at approximately $1.2 billion using the current strip and revised volume forecast.
That's versus a CapEx forecast for the year of $1.7 billion and that includes the asset purchase we made from Chesapeake that we announced earlier in the second quarter.
So along with the proceeds we received from the sale of Sunrise we're clearly in very good shape from a liquidity perspective heading into the rest of the year.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Dave Porges.
Thank you Phil.
As Phil summarized operationally we are coming off another record quarter with record volumes at Production and Midstream.
We hit a significant milestone in the quarter our first day of sales above 1 Bcfe.
In fact we averaged over 1 Bcfe per day for the entire quarter.
So congratulations to the EQT Production folks who made that happen along with the Midstream folks who moved those volumes and the Commercial folks who sold them.
Production volumes were higher than expected because we turned pads and lines faster than planned.
We have discussed the lumpiness of volume growth resulting from the timing of turning pads and line Midstream projects et cetera and this lumpiness was again evident in the second quarter with some anticipated third quarter production being accelerated into the second quarter because of the timing of some specific pads.
Much of this increased volume flowed through our gathering and transmission systems driving the growth in those businesses also.
We finished frac-ing our third Utica well during the quarter.
But since we were waiting for a gathering line we just turned our first Utica well in hours ago -- turned it in line hours ago.
The other 2 Utica wells should be turned-in-line next month.
So while we would like to provide Utica results on today's call we instead ask that you be a little bit more patient.
We do have 4 Upper Devonian wells in line and are quite encouraged by the early results.
These 4 wells have an average EUR of 1.2 Bcfe per 1 000 feet which is near the high end of our expected range.
Put another way a well with 4 800 feet of lateral pay would have an EUR of about 5.8 Bcfe.
While the economics of the Upper Devonian wells are not quite as high as the Marcellus wells they're still quite good with average after-tax IRRs in the mid-30s and a $4 gas price.
Also the overall economics for EQT are boosted by the efficiency involved with drilling these wells at the same time and place as Marcellus wells.
Based on the early success we are tweaking our drilling program a bit.
We are increasing the Upper Devonian program by 11 wells to a new total of 22 that's in 2013.
At the same time we are reducing our Marcellus program by 11 wells to a new total of 146.
We will continue to drill the Marcellus and Upper Devonian wells on the same pad using the same rigs and completion equipment.
So even though the well allocations are tweaked slightly the overall activity is essentially unchanged.
Increase in Upper Devonian wells accomplishes 2 things: it accelerates the de-risking of the play and it allows us to improve productivity by increasing the total wells per pad leveraging the surface cost across more wells.
If we had stuck with the original plan we would have foregone some efficiencies as we would have still drilled the Marcellus wells at those pads but would then have moved the equipment off of those locations and would have had to incur more costs to return to the pads in the future to drill Upper Devonian wells.
Shifting gears as you no doubt saw we completed our first drop into our MLP.
Last week we sold our Sunrise Pipeline to EQT Midstream Partners for $507.5 million in cash and $32.5 million worth of common and general partnership units.
EQT Midstream Partners also agreed to pay additional consideration of $110 million to EQT upon the execution of a third-party transportation agreement that we expect to close concurrent with the closing of the utility sale.
To pay for the acquisition EQM issued 12.65 million units.
Post transaction EQT now owns 42.6% of the LP units and a 2% general partnership interest.
As a reminder EQT does have incentive distribution rights which means once the quarterly distributions per unit hit predetermined thresholds the percentage of incremental cash flows paid to the GP increases up to a maximum of 50% of incremental cash flows.
There are 2 intermediate steps between the 2% and 50% levels with those breakpoints being at just over $0.40 per unit -- just under $0.44 per unit and then finally reaching the 50% split level at $0.525 per unit.
Now assuming that EQT Midstream Partners increases the distribution by $0.03 per unit each quarter from its current $0.40 EQT would be into the 50% splits before the end of 2014.
Do recall that for each split the higher share only applies on the amount above the base.
So if there were ever a moment at which the distribution were exactly $0.525 per unit or that breakpoint in the 50% split the GP would be receiving about 7.5% of that distribution plus 50% of the amount over that level.
Based on our internal estimates cash flow to EQT just from its GP stake is projected to be about $33 million for 2015.
Applying publicly traded GP multiples to that estimate would result in potential value to EQT shareholders of around $6 per share at that time.
The timing and size of EQT drops can materially impact this cash flow estimate higher or lower and the trading multiples seen today could be higher or lower.
That said it is clear that there is significant value in our GP stake and that's the reason we wanted to give you some insight into how we look at that value.
Switching topics we have nothing new to report on the regulatory reviews related to the sale of our gas utility Equitable Gas Company.
As you already know the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act expired and we are free to proceed from a Federal Trade Commission perspective.
We have also submitted filings with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission the West Virginia Public Service Commission the Kentucky Public Service Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission each of which must approve the transaction as part of the regulatory process.
There have not been any unexpected developments in this lengthy process and we still expect to receive all necessary approvals by around year end.
Finally as has been our norm we are providing production sales guidance for the current quarter so that means the third quarter 2013.
Based on our current pad completion schedule we expect third quarter production sales to be flat with second quarter at 92.5 Bcfe as new pads provide volume that offsets declines from initial production at those wells we turned-in-line during the recently completed [indiscernible].
We did increase our full year forecast between 360 and 365 Bcfe which is 40% higher than last year's.
In summary EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by accelerating the monetization of our reserves and other opportunities.
We continue to be focused on earning the highest possible returns from our investments and are doing what we can to increase the value of your shares.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and appreciate your continued support.
And with that I'd like to turn the call back over to Pat for the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Dave.
This concludes the comments portion of the call.
Yussaf can we please now open the call up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave maybe just first quick question.
I won't stay too long on the Utica.
You mentioned about finished frac-ing the 3 well.
Did you mention that you tied the first drill in the pipeline? Did I understand that right? Yes that was just hours ago.
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then you think on a go-forward basis now -- I mean I know there had been some midstream delays so once you got this first one on is it fair to say as you and Steve start rolling out these wells you'll be able to tie them in a sort of timely fashion? Well certainly we'd be able to tie them in if it were just Steve and I turning them in line.
That's good news for the shareholder because other people are doing it.
But yes look the issue we're probably going to have on Midstream with the Utica is going to be the same as others do which is we're in a window where we've anticipated that there's going to be a -- there could be some wet gas.
And of course it will be the processing that's the issue.
So as far as the pipe yes I think we're fine on that for our plans.
And then the issue is going to be when we decide that what we really need to do to extract the most economics is to strip the liquids.
Crude oil of course to the extent we have that if something is coming out if it's liquid it's surface pressures then it's -- that's of course a different story that's a little bit easier to deal with over time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you all have said kind of reaching that I don't know if it's 50 000 what your goal is now.
I mean if -- is there a certain time that if -- I know acreage is a bit tougher to come by there.
What's your thoughts on that Dave? I mean would you still sort of stick with what you have? Or is it kind of an all-or-nothing deal as you can't add a significant amount of acreage here in the near future? Well the 50 000 acres of course was always just kind of a benchmark.
What we really mean is something that is an economical size.
So that's -- at this point we're encouraged that there are some pieces out there that we can look at and we'll just have to see how that plays out.
I actually don't know that I'd say that acreage is not available I think that a lot of folks are sorting through their portfolios.
I mean I understand that's a routine thing to happen.
Maybe it's more normal that it's happening now after a lot of people compiled portfolios and now they're sorting through just as we are with our portfolio of course.
What fits what doesn't fit.
And not just from a perspective of what looks good from a reserve perspective but what helps you put together a development plan of a reasonable scale.
And I think that we're all kind of going through that process.
So I'm not discouraged actually about there being no opportunities out there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
And then turning over to obviously Marcellus.
I was just looking at your slide where you sort of outlined the amount of Midstream as far as the transmission capacity over 1.7 billion and the miles of transmission pipeline.
I guess what I'm getting at is now that you're able to turn these pads and lines faster than expected obviously it's a nice problem to have.
I guess my question is it seems like because you guys do control your own pipeline or your own Midstream do you have -- are you going to be ramping that up as far as how quick and how much money you'll be adding to the Midstream? Or are the plans already sufficient enough to sort of factor in this faster pads and lines coming on? Well we certainly have plans and line that are consistent with the production plans.
But it is a rapid rate there's no doubt about that.
So that does require a fair amount of hustling to keep going and it's not -- we continue to be open to moving some of our volumes through other people's lines just as we're -- we build our facilities to often times accommodate other producers.
So I guess we have kept that in mind.
Now we don't of course control our own processing right? So that's one where we continue to work with folks who do that to make sure that contractually we're able to organize enough capacity.
But the volumes are going up so quickly in this neck of the woods that I'd say we're always feeling as if we're running pretty fast.
So I don't know that we'd ever want to feel that we're sanguine I think we feel optimistic that we can get things done but I -- we can't rest on our laurels because the lines are just jumping up so quickly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And last question if -- I think you've said this before.
Do I understand this right as far as kind of potential for dropdown it's in the Midstream whatever.
If you are able to bring on a little more you spend a little more in that area is it always -- continue to drop down about 1/4 of what you have or if you could just remind us of kind of the plans on a kind of annual basis of what you potentially could drop down? Well we don't really have a plan on an annual basis that goes out there.
We have said that over time -- let's say the floor is that we would like to be generating proceeds at the EQT level from drops that equals the amount of spending EQT has on the Midstream.
But over time of course we will want to be dropping more into EQM than we are spending.
So -- and the other thing that's taken into account when you're looking at the -- what I gather from the market's perspective was larger-than-expected drop is a lot of these assets that we'll be dropping when we do drop a specific project or asset they're going to be lumpy.
So some of them are going to be larger and some of them are going to be smaller.
But we're -- you should not take the size of that drop to be an indication that somehow we've ramped up our decisions on spending at Midstream at EQT level.
We're going to keep dropping as it looks economic to do so.
And it's just that we've got this floor where over time we'd like to make sure we're dropping enough so that the proceeds are going to be paying for the Midstream expenditures.
Our next question comes from Phillip Jungwirth with BMO Capital Markets.
With over $1 billion in cash coming in in the second half with -- from EQM and the utility sale and then what looks to be a minimal outspend in 2014 and beyond how are you thinking about capital allocation between: one accelerating in the Marcellus; two share buybacks there; or three increasing the dividend? We are looking at it -- I don't want to be trite here but we are looking at the same way we will always look at it.
We think that -- we're not -- we don't believe our decisions are being or should be overly influenced by what the balance sheet says.
Unless of course we just didn't have enough money to do some of the things that we wanted.
But we should be investing in the projects that create value and foregoing the projects that don't.
Being temporarily a little bit more liquid we don't feel creates any pressure or burning holes in our pockets et cetera.
So we do examine other ways to invest the money such as share buybacks and dividends.
But we view it the same way I'd say that we always do.
We compare the investment opportunities and yes anybody who looks at our incentive comp plans knows that the way that this management gets paid is to have our share price perform over the course of time.
So hopefully we're aligned with the shareholders in that regard.
We just want to create value.
And I'd say from that perspective it hasn't changed.
When I became CEO the strategy was we need to pick what we want to invest in and what we want to offload.
And I'd just say that we're kind of in the midst of that process.
So we'll continue also to look at monetizing things that whereby perhaps the value is greater in the hands of others.
And then on EQM with the GP potentially in the high end of the split in the next 18 months and probably -- could be earlier assuming a lower coverage ratio of 1.1x.
I mean how would that impact the valuation and EQM's ability to raise capital to pay for future dropdowns given that the GP will be in the high end of the split so early? And then where was the GP valued at in the $32.5 million of proceeds of EQM's stock per unit? Actually Phil probably has the answer to that.
Or why answer the rest? [indiscernible] How much of the $32.5 million was extra LP units versus...
Yes.
The units that we got back in addition to the cash were 480 000 limited partner units and then 268 GP units -- 268 000.
Another way to look at that would be the 400 000 LP units at the market price at that time and then the rest is the GP.
So [indiscernible] LP and the rest GP.
Go ahead.
Okay.
And then next question can you share with us your views both near-term and long-term on where you see Marcellus base is going? And then how the recent weakness will impact the third quarter? Well that's -- for that one I've been doing a lot of the talking.
So I will turn that over to Randy.
Though we -- and -- Randy what are your thoughts on bases? Sure.
When you talk about short term and long term.
In the short term right I mean the influx of supply the natural gas in the region is -- for the purpose of blending higher-Btu ethane producers to put pressure on the basin.
So -- but -- this is we think will be somewhat alleviated with the Mariner West project that just came online this week and the ATEX project that is said to come on in early 2014.
And just to close the loop on that ethane topic EQT has a tremendous dry gas resource in Western PA as you know and particularly in Greene County so that provides us the ability to blend our ethane with wet gas production for the foreseeable future.
Now in regard to the long term in the long term we have stayed ahead of the curve in terms of planning our takeaway capacity.
So currently we have almost 655 million decatherms per day of firm pipeline capacity that's out of the basin and we have approximately 400 million decatherms per day of firm sales.
And so -- for a total of about 1.05 Bcf per day.
So we recognize that the basin is in its growing stage and we're remaining flexible with regard to making additional long-term commitments.
And obviously with that said -- we have committed to an incremental 300 million a day pipeline capacity expansion into the Gulf Coast in the Mid-Atlantic markets which we have scheduled to come on in service by the end of 2014.
So moving forward we continue to add firm capacity to portfolio and we add to the diversity of markets.
And so we've been on this issue and we're continuing to look at those diversity of markets and liquidities.
So in the long run we think that including the growing Southeast markets we should be in good shape.
Okay.
Great.
And then last question real quick.
Where -- on the Upper Devonian wells did you use RCS on those? Phil this is Steve.
We used RCS on 1 of the 4 wells that we have production date on.
So the results that we're quoting are 3/4 based on our 60-foot clusters and 1/4 based on the 30-foot cluster test.
So -- and our expectation is just like we're seeing in the Marcellus I think we'll have to test this to find out but I think we're -- we think it's likely that the Upper Devonian will benefit from 30-foot cluster spacing.
So for the wells we're drilling this year they'll be using the 30-foot clusters.
Our next question comes from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So with your updated 2013 outlook for the higher production do you have any update for what 2014 production will look like? No we haven't read -- of course we introduced some guidance on that but we're now getting to the point we're in the run-up to our annual capital budget and plan process so we don't want to get out in front of our board as far as what kind of approvals we'll get for that.
So at this point this time of year typically also we'd just as soon stick with the guidance that we've put out there.
And then of course we'll update that once we have a under-capital budget.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess presuming directionally higher is maybe getting ahead of ourselves I guess? I just -- in case our board members are listening and I don't want to presume something that assumes that they'll provide approvals to stuff that we're proposing to them but haven't actually put in front of them yes.
Research Division</strong> That's fair enough fair enough.
Not great timing for that is all I'd say.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Okay.
That's fair that's fair.
And then you talked about reducing your Marcellus program this year by 11 wells is that pretty evenly distributed across your development areas? Yes and that's really just driven by the desire to maximize our rig efficiencies and drilling more Upper Devonian wells while the rigs are on certain locations.
Given the results we've seen in the Upper Devonian we think that's the prudent thing to do.
So yes it's pretty equally spread around.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk about initial rates on those Upper Devonian wells? I don't think we've provided IPs but again the average is about 1 200 or 1.2 bcf per 1 000 feet EURs.
And for these wells we actually have a fair amount of production history.
So the oldest well has been producing for 3 years and another couple for 2 years and the fourth one for a year.
So I think these are not as speculative as EURs as you might have imagined that they are in terms of how much data we had to look at.
I'd also say that again since these wells were drilled 2 3 years ago our drilling completion techniques in the Marcellus have improved pretty dramatically over that time.
We're certainly hopeful that we'll see that same kind of improvement in the wells we're drilling today in the Upper Devonian.
Time will tell if that's true or not but we certainly are optimistic that we can improve on what we've seen.
Our next question comes from Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
I guess a couple on my end first more near-term oriented.
Just curious on the third quarter production volume guidance.
Are there any kind of implicit assumptions around building up or drawing down of completion backlogs within that? No all I'd say is if -- you've probably noticed in the second quarter we drew down the backlog pretty substantially.
All of that is just driven by the timing of these large multi-well multistage pads.
It just worked out that a lot of them came on in the second quarter which means they'll probably be -- rigs will be moving to new multi-well pads so there'll be a bit of a hiatus in new TILs in the third quarter.
So I would expect that you'll see that backlog build back up somewhat in the third quarter.
But it's all driven just by the timing of these big pads.
Okay.
So it is somewhat assumed that you'll have some increase in backlog again in the third quarter? Yes I would expect that.
Which is why we're projecting basically flat volumes in the third quarter over the second but the backlog should increase.
That makes sense.
And can you just remind me where -- or like how many of your rigs are in each of your key areas at this point? Meaning Northern West Virginia Southwestern PA and then Central PA? I believe right now we have 3 in Southwestern PA and 3 in Northern West Virginia.
Pretty sure that's right.
They move around a little bit so I'm not always completely up to speed.
Okay.
But that kind of 50-50 split is probably fair throughout the rest of the year is it? Yes I think that would be pretty close.
Okay.
Let's see -- and then I guess a lot of my others have been addressed.
I'm curious on the inclusion of additional Upper Devonian wells and doing those on the same pads as the Marcellus wells does that -- how do we think about that in terms of cycle times for those pads? Is it just going to spread things out a bit more? Although reducing the per-well cost because you're going to spread it over the pad over more wells is it spreading out the cycle times a bit as well? That's a good question and I probably can't give you a great answer yet.
That's certainly a topic that we are actively studying now trying to determine what is the optimum scenario especially for these very large pads.
So if we have a 10-well Marcellus pad and the opportunity to drill another 10 Upper Devonian pads for a total of 20 we're currently modeling.
Does it make sense is it optimum to drill all 20 right now? Or does it make sense to drill 5 Marcellus 5 Upper Devonian leave and come back later? Or should we drill all the Marcellus now and come back? And some of the issues are just logistical in nature but there's also some factors around -- some concerns around the effectiveness of the fracs particularly in the Upper Devonian if we would come back significantly later after frac-ing the Marcellus because of depletion and potential interference between the 2.
So we're doing a lot of reservoir modeling combined with a lot of logistical study to sort of sort.
So bottom line is right now I don't -- I can't tell you what the optimum is and what the impact will be.
Part of the reason that we're drilling some more Upper Devonians this year on existing pads is to help us figure out how that -- what the optimum is going to be.
Okay that makes sense.
And so I'm correct in assuming you can't -- you're not doing simultaneous completions while drilling correct? You can't do both on the same pad? I don't know that we're -- we're not frac-ing while drilling but we're doing a lot of other simultaneous operations a lot more than we used to.
Okay.
And then I guess the last on my end is more of just kind of getting back to corporate structure and thinking about unlocking some of the value.
As we get -- we're getting closer toward the end of the year you've talked about a couple of other different ways to say monetize some latent value.
You brought up in the past potentially bringing in or trying to find third-party capital around the Huron program to restart that growth.
Also now with ONEOK's announcement of spinning out the utility and have a standalone GP that maybe raises some [indiscernible].
Another interesting comp around EQT in terms of unlocking value you did highlight you'll be hitting those splits relatively soon.
So I'm just trying to think through and better understand what current thoughts are today particularly in the context of that ONEOK announcement.
Well the ONEOK announcement itself of course doesn't really have much impact on us.
We looked at the alternatives around LDC before we decided to sell as opposed to doing some type of a spinoff and things like that.
We looked at that.
Well we're obviously interested to read more as we are with any of our companies and any of our peer group interested to read what they're up to and look at their rationale and see how it turns out for them.
But the thought process we have on monetizing other assets as a best way to create shareholder value is really the same as it was.
If we're not going to be able to -- or don't think it's economical for us to do the development the optimal development of those assets then we look at alternatives whether it's selling to somebody else as we've done a couple of times or getting some other source of capital as we have of course with the Midstream with the MLP.
So I don't think there's anything magic about year end for that.
We're obviously not pressured from a liquidity perspective that's in reasonable shape I'd say.
So we'll continue to work on that.
I mean the -- so the urgency isn't raising capital the urgency is doing the right thing to create value.
And we continue to look at those alternatives.
I mean obviously Nora and Huron are ones that we've talked about the possibility of having different approaches to that.
With Midstream I think the issue is going to be drops and I think a lot more of that is going to be driven by what's going in EQM than EQT what the capacities are and things like that since again we do think that the best owner of a lot of those assets is probably EQM as opposed to EQT.
And then to help you figure out what we do with it with the MLP generally and the GP you're right we started introducing the issue of how much value could be there and frankly we're going to be trying to being -- encouraging our shareholders to take a look at what that value is.
And it's hard to tell whether there's going to be enough transparency there that things will be fine as we move through the splits or whether the right thing to do will be to do something else.
The separate issue somebody else had raised about what do you do when you get into a high splits for the GP that's a real issue for MLPs when they grow that fast.
And separate from EQT corporate structure issues when we get to that point we will have to address that issue so that EQM is able to make acquisitions that are accretive for its unitholders.
That's helpful.
Can you remind me what the timing or potential timing around when EQM would be more self-sufficient from a CapEx funding perspective? I don't know what's...
Does that get accelerated at all given that the size of the drop is a bit bigger than expected? Can you help me a little bit with what you mean by self-sufficient? Because it's -- that's a market where there are -- unlike the C core [ph] market for oil and gas companies where issuing equity is not possible...
I guess what I mean is the growth -- a lot of the growth capital is being spent at EQT currently and then matured under EQT and then dropped down eventually into EQM? I think it's -- the way I kind of think of it is just -- this is [ph] very rough -- and hopefully the team doesn't view this as some kind of a revelation but it seems just from observation that spending roughly 10% of one's cash flow on organic investments is something that can be worn reasonably comfortably at an MLP.
The issue is more that it's able to continue to grow its distributable cash flow per unit.
And that's just hard to do when you have capital tied up in long-lead-time projects.
So that's really the drive right? If we spend a lot of money at EQM on multiyear projects it would be tough for it to increase its distributable cash flow per unit.
Now obviously quick-turnaround projects so de-bottlenecking and things like that there's probably no grade limit on that.
But as far as bigger projects I think it's much more can EQM continue to increase its distribution to per unit at comps? So let's say the comps and coverage rates with money tied up in long lead time projects.
Does that...
Yes that's helpful.
I was just trying to also think through this when -- just when we could think about breaking up the Midstream/MLP ownership within EQT from the upstream to maybe better highlight the value of the Midstream units but [indiscernible].
I don't think that issue of EQM being able to make the investments directly as opposed to EQT necessarily get in the way of the structuring issues.
Frankly the same thing is true of the GP going to higher splits.
I think those are separable issues.
Our next question comes from Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Investors (sic) (Advisors).
Research Division</strong> I have a question of what you would do with the excess cash that you have at EQT? Could you talk about your capacity to increase drilling levels in terms of the ability to get permits crews.
By how much could you increase that capacity? Do you have a number? I think I'll punt that to Steve since I don't have an answer.
Thanks Dave.
I don't have an answer either.
I think we certainly feel like we have the capacity to expand our program.
I can't give you specifics but I will say the -- we don't really anticipate any issues on the service side.
So access to rigs and frac crews and associated services I think we don't view as really troublesome to expand that.
I think the governor of our pace expansion will likely be on the land side our ability to permit wells and put together drilling units that make sense and to drill multi-well pads.
And that's a difficult thing to predict too far in the future to get too far ahead of where we're at.
But we're obviously very focused on that and doing our best to make sure we have the opportunity to expand.
And I think certainly we can do more than we're currently doing.
Research Division</strong> And then on -- just to go back to the GP stake I think that you said Dave that you're expecting $33 million from the GP stake by '15? Is that just the GP stake alone and not including the LP distribution? That's exactly correct.
That's just the GP stake given the assumptions that I had laid out.
And honestly it was really designed to try to give a sense of where the GP value could be heading for EQT.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then finally on Huron if you were to get a JV on that any idea of the potential for Midstream spend on that space? I -- there certainly will be a need for Midstream whenever Huron development recommences no matter whose money it is.
You could go a little ways with very little Midstream spend.
And then we're going to have to get into -- they're going to have to be spending around it.
So that -- and that -- but then the issue of -- depending on what kind of structure happens at the Huron is that EQT stuff that gets dropped into EQM that go into whatever vehicle it is that -- at this point that's probably from our perspective getting a little bit ahead of it.
We have observed that most producers don't -- most don't really want the Midstream but we have observed it.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm asking I think a little bit different question.
Not so much structure but just saying in general used to be when you focused on that area there was -- if you were to grow materially there was going to be a need for a lot more Midstream CapEx spend.
And if it's -- I'm not really -- doesn't matter who spends it but just some idea that...
That's true.
That is still true.
We can probably go a year or 2 without much spend or a low level of growth.
You could still get by with very little spend.
And if there were a material ramp up to use your word Becca then you'd have to get into spending more on the Midstream again.
More material money on the Midstream.
Research Division</strong> Any idea of magnitude? Couple hundred million? No I really haven't looked at that case very closely to be honest.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Patrick Kane for any closing remarks.
Thanks Yussaf and thank you everybody for participating in today's call.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to EQT Corp.
Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Pat Kane.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Chad.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream Distribution and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Senior Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a 7-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
The telephone number for the replay is (412) 317-0088.
The confirmation code is 10025424.
The call will also be replayed for 7 days on our website.
To remind you the results of EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM are consolidated in EQT's results.
There's a separate press release issued by EQM this morning and there's a separate conference call today at 11:30 a.m.
today which creates a hard stop for this call at 11:25.
If you're interested in the EQM call the dial-in number is (412) 317-6789.
I would also like to mention that the year end earnings conference call for both EQT and EQM is scheduled for February 13 2014.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT's operational and financial results for the third quarter which were released this morning then Dave will provide an update on strategic and operational matters.
Following Dave's remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will all be available to answer your questions.
Before that I'd like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements relating to future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today's press release and under Risk Factors in EQT's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 filed with the SEC as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are on file at the SEC as well.
Today's call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning's press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced third quarter 2013 earnings of $0.58 per diluted share.
Operating cash flow was just under $233 million in the quarter or 36% higher than the third quarter of 2012.
Adjusted cash flow per share was $1.92 in the quarter up 68% versus the third quarter '12.
Our operational performance was again outstanding this quarter with 42% higher production volume growth 43% higher gathering volume growth while net operating expenses increased by only 23% resulting in continued reduction per unit operating cost.
EQT Midstream Partners' results as Pat mentioned are consolidated in EQT's results and EQT did record $14.4 million of net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest unitholders of EQM in the quarter.
Early in the quarter EQT completed the sale of the Sunrise Pipeline to EQT Midstream Partners for total consideration of $507.5 million plus approximately 479 000 common units and 268 000 general partnering units in EQT Midstream Partners.
While there is no accounting gain from the sale on our income statement due to the consolidated reporting EQT will recognize a federal income tax gain of approximately $475 million resulting in cash taxes associated with that transaction of approximately $57 million.
That represents a cash tax rate on the dropdown of only 12% as we are able to use our intangible drilling cost deductions accelerated tax depreciation and net operating loss carryforwards to reduce cash taxes for the year.
These tax synergies are actually a valuable benefit of our current corporate structure as we continue to work through our inventory of dropdowns.
Continuing on income tax topic for just a minute you may have noticed we recorded a corporate effective book tax rate of 25% for the quarter which is a little lower than normal.
I should first note that the accounting for the MLP structure has the effect of reducing our book federal tax rate as all of the pretax income including the portion that goes to the noncontrolling interest of EQM is consolidated at EQT while we only record income taxes on EQT's share of the pretax income.
The 25% effective tax rate in the quarter is also below the expected run rate for the year due to an increase in our ability to utilize some state tax income tax deductions in the quarter compared to previous estimates.
For the full year 2013 we do currently project the EQT effective book tax rate will be around 35% or right around the level that it was last year.
I will now shift gears briefly to discuss our operating results in a little bit more detail starting with EQT Production where sales volumes continue to grow rapidly.
The growth rate in the recently completed quarter was 42% higher over the -- 42% over the third quarter of 2012.
That growth rate continues to be driven by sales from our Marcellus play which contributed approximately 75% of the volumes in the quarter.
Marcellus volumes alone were 74% higher than they were in the quarter a year ago.
Realized gas prices were a bit higher in the quarter consistent with higher NYMEX prices.
At the corporate level EQT received an average of $4.20 per Mcf equivalent compared to $4.04 per unit received last year.
However the realized price at EQT Production was $3.13 per Mcf equivalent compared to $2.85 last year.
A couple of comments on our realized price specifically as it pertains to basis.
Basis was a negative $25.1 million in the quarter or a negative $0.26 per unit compared to a negative $2 million or essentially flat basis last year.
We were able to mitigate some of the basis impact through fixed price sales which added $6.4 million or about $0.07 per Mcf equivalent to our realized price in the current year quarter.
The impact of these sales is reported in our hedge gain line item in the price reconciliation table.
As we think about investments and economics we do focus on our projected realized price in which basis is only one part and our projects are still quite profitable at current levels.
Moving onto the Midstream results.
In the third quarter operating income here was up 54%.
The increase is consistent with the growth of gathered volumes and increased fixed capacity-based transmission charges.
Net gathering revenues increased 19% to just under $92 million in the third quarter '13 primarily due to a 43% increase in gathered volumes.
The average gathering rate paid by EQT Production will continue to decline as Marcellus production continues to grow as a percentage of our total production mix.
Specifically the average revenue deduction from EQT Production to EQT Midstream for gathering in the quarter of $0.84 per Mcf equivalent was $0.16 per unit lower than last year.
Transmission revenues for the third quarter 2013 increased by $13.4 million or by 50% driven by fixed capacity charges associated with Equitrans expansion projects including Sunrise.
Storage marketing and other net revenue was up $2.8 million primarily from unrealized gains on derivatives and inventory in the quarter.
As I've -- as we've mentioned several times before the storage and marketing part of the Midstream business realized on natural gas price volatility and seasonal spreads in the forward curve and those have continued to deteriorate year-over-year.
Given current market conditions we continue to estimate that full year 2013 net revenues in storage marketing and other will total approximately $30 million.
Operating expenses at Midstream for the quarter of $61.4 million were about $3.5 million higher than last year consistent with our growth in the business.
Just a quick note on guidance we are currently estimating our operating cash flow for 2013 full year to be approximately $1.2 billion.
We closed the quarter with no outstanding balance on our $1.5 billion credit facility and had over $400 million of cash on our balance sheet as of 9/30/2013.
So we do remain in great position from both a liquidity and a balance sheet standpoint for the rest of the year and as we head into 2014.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Dave Porges.
Thank you Phil.
As Phil summarized operationally we are coming off another record quarter with record volumes at Production and Midstream.
We have discussed the lumpiness of volume growth resulting from the timing of turning these big multi-well pads in line midstream projects et cetera.
This was again evident in the third quarter.
We exceeded our production sales guidance because some anticipated fourth quarter volumes were accelerated into the third quarter due to the turn in line timing of some pads.
Much of this increase volume flowed through our gathering and transmission systems driving the growth in those businesses also.
During the quarter we also turned in line our first 3 Utica wells.
The 30-day rates were published in today's press release.
We are encouraged by the results because they were in line with our expectations and we are confident in our ability to improve well performance and reduce costs as we move up the learning curve.
From an absolute volume perspective the wells in this part of the play the volatile oil window are not eye-popping.
However what we still find attractive about this area are the significant amounts of high-quality oil and very high Btu gas.
On a boe basis these wells averaged 42% oil; 28% NGLs including ethane; and 30% gas.
When processing becomes available around year end we'll receive premium pricing by stripping and selling the natural gas liquids.
To put the economics in perspective when using today's prices the average 30-day initial production from these first 3 Utica wells is the revenue equivalent of natural gas wells with IPs of nearly 9 million cubic feet per day.
We are on track to drill 8 wells this year and we are still at approximately 14 000 net acres in our focused area within the Ohio Utica.
We have not added to our position since the last call as we believe the currently high acreage prices warrant patience certainly compared with the value we see in tack-on acreage additions near our core Marcellus hold-ups.
We will keep you informed on our future well performance and our acreage position.
As you also saw we will be achieving a milestone of sorts in mid-November when the recently announced EQM distribution becomes payable.
At that point the EQM distribution will be $0.43 per unit which is above the $0.4025 per unit threshold at which incentive distribution rights for the general partner begin.
To remind you EQM guided its investors to $0.03 per unit per quarter increases through at least 2014 which would mean reaching the top incentive distributions split for the GP late next year.
Given that there are only 2 months left in the year we have very little to provide regarding guidance.
Fourth quarter production sales volumes are expected to be flat sequentially in large part due to those pads which were accelerated into the third quarter.
This would result in 2013 production sales volumes that are 42% higher than 2012 volumes and fourth quarter volumes at 27% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012.
We are in the process of developing our 2014 capital and operating budget which will be presented to our board for approval in mid-December so it's a little bit later board meeting than normal.
At that time we will inform you of our drilling plans CapEx forecast production sales guidance cash flow guidance and midstream EBITDA guidance.
This of course is our normal timing given our board's authorities and the governance procedures that we have in place.
We have however completed our annual strategy review with our board.
None of what we agreed upon should surprise you but at a high level you should expect us to: one continue to accelerate the pace of development of our Marcellus play which is our highest-returning asset; two continue co-development of the Upper Devonian play where appropriate; third continue to focus acreage acquisitions in our core Marcellus development areas; fourth pursue monetization of non-core or less core assets; fifth continue to accelerate drops into EQM above the level of EQT Midstream investments; and sixth increase investment in midstream projects increasingly directly at the EQM level rather than the EQT level to serve other producers.
On that last point there is a tremendous need for additional gathering and takeaway capacity and our midstream system is strategically situated to make profitable investments.
Also EQM has the appropriate cost of capital to pursue more of those investments.
We have little new to report on the regulatory reviews related to the sale of our gas utility Equitable Gas Company except that the Kentucky Public Service Commission concluded that it did not need to approve the transaction.
We have previously listed them as an organization that did have to approve it.
As you already know the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act expired and we are free to proceed from a Federal Trade Commission perspective.
We have also submitted filings with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission West Virginia Public Service Commission and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission each of which must approve the transaction as part of the regulatory process.
There have not been any unexpected development in this lengthy process and we still expect to receive all necessary approvals by around year end.
In summary EQT remains committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by accelerating the monetization of our reserves and our opportunities.
We continue to be focused on earning the highest possible returns for our investments and are doing what we can to increase the value of your share.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and we appreciate your continued support.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Pat Kane.
Thank you Dave.
This concludes the comments portion of the call.
Chad can we please now open the call for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Say David maybe for you or Steve.
Just a question you got that big acreage Marcellus play in the Northern West Virginia area your wet gas area there.
I'm wondering in that position what are your thoughts.
I know there's been chatter recently after the recent Antero and some other deals about the dry Utica potential in a part of that and I would say maybe even a large part of that.
I'm just wondering Dave kind of yours or Steve's thoughts about that around that area if that's something you would be looking at or are you going to continue to focus on the wet Marcellus there? Well eventually we'll look at any area that has the potential for economic resources.
I'll let Steve give a more specific response but I would say it's not top of our list right now.
We've got plenty of things on -- at that top of the list and that's not really one of them.
Yes I really don't have much to add.
I agree.
It's on our radar but not at the top of our list.
I think it's deeper.
It's more expensive.
It's dry gas.
We're going to be focused on the more profitable Marcellus opportunity in that area for now.
And we'll see what develops with the dry gas Utica certainly there's some potential there but not a high priority right now for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then guys in that same area have you picked up any acreage recently there? I've heard prices certainly recently increasing there pretty substantially.
I'm just wondering if you have any thoughts on what sort of M&amp;A deals you are going for? We really haven't picked up anything of any significant size.
We're always continually picking up pieces to fill in drilling units and prices fluctuate but they're more -- the small pieces we're picking up are more location-specific.
So I don't know that we have much of a read on any major changes in acreage pricing in that area.
Neal a lot of times we get a little bit better deals on acreage in the Marcellus because it is closer the stuff we focus on the stuff that's closer to our own development areas and probably has a little bit less value to others.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then I guess again with your midstream I know there's been for some other people some takeaway challenge infrastructure challenges there.
But Steve it sounds like I know with your company and all it sounds like you're well on the way as far as midstream re-infrastructure there isn't that the case? Yes but Randy is really probably a better one to comment on that.
Yes I mean -- Neal this is Randy.
Yes absolutely.
We're in strong shape.
We have the Sunrise Pipeline that was completed last year that added incremental capacity in that area as well.
And we continue to add additional infrastructure to keep ahead of the pace of Steve's team.
So I think we're in solid position.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then very last one if I could just very quickly.
Just on that Utica acreage 13 000 or 14 000 acres.
Any thoughts on a type curve or how you Steve maybe feel like those wells will hold up? I think obviously it's pretty early.
Those 3 wells are fairly new.
I think the IPs were about where we expected given that it's our first venture into the play.
I'll say they're performing much better than our first wells in the Marcellus did from a relative standpoint.
And we are sure hopeful that will be able to improve our drilling completion practices lower cost increase productivity.
So I think we're fairly encouraged.
The returns even at what the first 3 wells are doing are not bad.
So I think we're encouraged but I think acreage prices in the Utica have been pretty high.
It's a pretty competitive area right now.
And I think our view is we're going to be patient and only pay what price the resource warrants.
And time will tell how much acreage we're able to gather.
Our next question comes from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering after Devon announced its midstream transaction this week if you would be open to considering a similar transaction if the right opportunity arose or if you looked really at that transaction at all? We've looked at it a little bit but we actually rely on bankers probably including colleagues of yours on the other side of the Chinese wall.
They give us better feels for what those transactions entail.
Because basically we're open to anything that's going to help create shareholder value.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there anything -- any other avenues you've looked at recently to monetize your GP interest or your other wholly-owned midstream assets that you can discuss? We're monitoring all of that.
We've got a notion of what our inventory as it were is for droppable assets.
And I think as we probably mentioned in the past maybe not in these broad calls but there's often a number of contracts that have to be put into place.
And that we keep working on those the ones that are at the top of the list is being the first ones to get dropped and doing other things that are necessary to make some of the assets droppable as it were.
As far as the GP yes eventually we're going to have to do something with that.
But right now our attitude is let's get the drops going or keep them going at a good pace.
And that's what we commented on exceeding the level that we have talked about initially of what midstream investments EQT makes.
And that will be a nice problem to have when we've created enough value there that we need to figure out ways to monetize.
And we fully expect that that is going to be a fork in the road that we reach.
Research Division</strong> Okay makes sense.
And then one on the Marcellus.
It looks like you guys have completed something like 80 wells year-to-date or connected 80 to shales and if I'm not mistaken your plan for the year is to connect or to complete 146.
Can you help me with the pace of completions I guess in the back half of the year? Yes I think our pace is always lumpy.
And if you look back over the previous several quarters you'll see the number of stages we bring online any quarter.
Just so far this year it's varied from I think a low of right around 300 stages to a high of 1 500 stages.
That's heavily driven by the timing of our large multi-well multi-frac 30-foot cluster space wells.
So it's going to continue to be lumpy.
I think the fourth quarter we plan to bring on more stages than we did in the third but we'll be far from the number we did in the second.
So it will be sort of a modest quarter in terms of TILs with -- I think our projection is first quarter will likely be probably above average when we look at the likely timing of the frac jobs and the drilling rigs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So some of the wells you are drilling this year maybe will be competed into next year maybe a meaningful portion? Oh yes quite a -- yes a meaningful portion.
The next question comes from Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
One of my key questions there was just on the timing of completions.
And it sounds like fourth quarter '13 maybe a bump to the third quarter but that will make up the full year.
I guess as I look at the third quarter you tied on fewer wells than I had expected and yet had a very strong production result implies good efficiency from the wells.
Just kind of wondering if there's any updated commentary around Marcellus type curves in that context and how wells are hanging in relative to the curves you put up earlier this year and how we might think about that heading into 2014? Yes Michael we updated our curves earlier this year.
And I think we tend to like to gather a lot of data before we update those.
So no further update at this point other than to say we were pretty comfortable with the new curves when we put them in place and continue to be comfortable with those.
So I think the wells are doing what we expected.
Okay great.
And then I guess on the NGL guidance front just a little curious on that.
It's a little lighter than I had expected.
Is there any continued impact from a midstream side on the NGLs in the outlook for the fourth quarter or any sort of midstream things we're getting through or is that just...
The issue in the quarter was there was a MarkWest facility that ran into some operational issues.
I don't know if Randy wants to provide some timing updates on that.
But that would have -- if you're wondering why it was not as high as you would have thought it was due to that type of a short -- kind of a short-term issue.
But that flowed into the fourth quarter then I guess that's what I was trying to get at.
I thought that was more of a third quarter event than fourth.
You're right Michael.
That NGL line that David referenced the MarkWest takeaway out of the Mobley plant has been back in service and so that impact doesn't extend into the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then last one on my end I guess is we've talked about in the past you got a lot of cash coming in.
The recent -- some recent things in the market have suggested use of proceeds around share buybacks.
What's your view on share buybacks in terms of using the cash that's coming in? Just curious on your thoughts there.
It's a good benchmark to be using when we're comparing it to other investment opportunities.
And let's face it the realistic other investment opportunities for us as I mentioned when I talk about strategy are increased development in our core areas the possibility of those tack-on acreage acquisitions and on the midstream side those would typically be at the EQM level projects that would -- that we tend to serve other producers.
The kind of projects that are attractive with EQM's cost of capital but that EQT was never particularly interested in pursuing.
So those are the things that you look at and we just think it's a discipline you should always be comparing those to share repurchases.
We're -- and our main point was we're not afraid of what happens if we wind up with a lot of cash because we have dropped quicker than we need money or sold non-core assets before we need cash.
If the right thing to do is to drop the assets at a quicker pace into EQM or the right thing to do is to sell some other non-core or less core assets then that's what we're going to do.
And we'll figure out what to do with the cash that results.
And as you look at that -- and that's helpful.
How does share buyback I guess stack up in that context at present relative to the other potential uses of the cash? And are you limited somewhat in your ability to accelerate on the upstream side? And does that play into any sort thought process? I don't know if I want to say that we're limited in our ability to accelerate but we do as -- this is kind of the norm in this area we do run into judgment calls on whether you develop now let's say a pad that has fewer wells shorter laterals or whether you give it a little bit more time to try to get the acreage or the permits to be able to have more wells on a pad longer laterals et cetera.
So you do run into those kinds of timing issues.
And we also don't like to be -- have artificial milestones that would inhibit us from making the right economic decision there.
But more broadly we're probably best off letting our whole capital budget process play out with our board before we get into other topics.
Obviously the preference of course is if we have attractive investments in our core that can create the value that we've been creating we certainly recognize that that is the preferred route to go.
We just don't want to force it and get to the point where we're making investments that don't stack up versus share repurchases.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful appreciate it.
And I guess -- actually I had one last simple one the -- in your strategic review just to be clear that last bullet point you outlined drive spending on the midstream side.
Is that at the EQM level that that spending would occur? Yes that is -- that was the point I was trying to make is that you should expect to see more of that spending at the EQM level and we do recognize that that means when we start more providing CapEx guidance we're going to have to be careful to provide guidance on what spending is occurring at the EQT level versus at the EQM level because EQT's consolidated reports will include all of the EQM spending and that gets -- we recognize that could kind of get tough to sort out because the cash flow isn't really coming into or going out of EQT Corp.
it's going through EQM.
The next question is from Ray Deacon with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Randy I was wondering if I could ask you a question about pricing at the M2 hub and how you see that changing going forward relative to other places where you're selling gas.
Sure.
I mean obviously you saw what Phil reported today in terms of our basis and I think he also pointed out that we had some forward sales that show up in the hedge line that contribute a positive $0.07.
But overall Ray I mean with respect to basis in M2 I mean I think from a short-term perspective short-term basis markets I mean they're really fundamentally driven.
I think that TETCO and the M2 is a strong pipeline with access to good markets but really any assumption for pricing for the winter the next summer is subject to a lot of inputs as you know the weather supply disruptions of growth really the absolute NYMEX storage fills.
But the impact of the infrastructure projects to transport the gas out that the M2 and TETCO are working on are more certain variables and I think these projects are going to continue to help mitigate any supply and demand imbalances in the region.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And I was wondering any further update on the Upper Devonian and I was wondering if you can also talk about how development going forward might look on pads to incorporate Upper Devonian wells? Ray this is Steve.
No further technical update on the Upper Devonian.
But -- and I think we still are looking at what we think the best development scenario for that is regarding number of wells on a pad and timing of Upper Devonian versus Marcellus.
And we haven't really concluded that study yet we're still gathering data.
But I mean my gut feel is it's likely going to conclude that for -- especially for the bigger pads pads where we have the potential to drill a total of 20 wells it's most likely to look like drilling a portion of the Marcellus and a portion of the Upper Devonian and then de-mobbing rig and coming back in a year or 2 and drilling the others.
Generally it will probably be all in one direction and then the other half in the other direction at another time.
But I think our thought is that from a completions standpoint we're going to be better off frac-ing the Upper Devonian and the Marcellus the stack side at the same time rather than doing all of the Marcellus and coming back and doing Upper Devonian later.
And then when we look at the economics of doing say 20 wells from 1 pad and the infrastructure and facility investments that would be required to handle those peak rates I think it's going to be economically more optimum to split it into 2 pieces.
So that's where I think we're headed.
But we're still studying it to find out for sure.
I don't know if that answer helps you or not.
Research Division</strong> No that's very helpful.
Our next question comes from Phillip Jungwirth with BMO.
Just sticking with the Upper Devonian.
Have you seen any change to the performance of the 2013 vintage wells versus the well that you highlighted last quarter which I think had EURs of 1.2 Bcf per thousand lateral foot.
Sorry you're asking if the Upper Devonian wells have impacted the Marcellus wells? No just the newer wells have seen improvement versus the 1.2 Bcf that you quoted.
I don't -- we don't have enough new data to really draw any conclusions on that.
So I would say no at this point.
Okay.
And then in terms of acreage acquisitions do you have a target in the Marcellus such as you think you could pick up maybe 10 000 acres over the next year or 20 000 acres? No.
No it's just whatever is economical.
The only thing we're influenced by though really is that sometimes some things more economical can alter the existing development plans.
And that -- a lot of times that depends on what opportunities are available.
That certainly happened with the Chesapeake acquisition earlier this year and that's -- those are obviously the ideal situation.
But no we have not had a target.
We've tried to stay away from that because again our fear is that if we have targets on things like that we'll wind up doing things that are not economical.
Okay.
And on the 3 Utica wells what's the average well cost in lateral length there? The average well cost for those first 3 wells I believe was around $8.5 million but they included a significant amount of science as we call it so coring specialty logging some fairly long well lines to get to our gathering systems.
So we don't think -- the well cost for the first 3 are not representative of what we expect.
We expect well cost there to be in the $6.5 million per well range going forward.
And the average lateral length I'm sorry they range from 4 500 to 6 800.
I don't have the average in front of me.
5 800 feet I think it is.
All right.
And then last question on the midstream dropdowns.
Can you just remind us of the historical guidance there? I think it has been 1 drop a year.
And then in terms of size it would be midstream CapEx which is around $350 million.
And for accelerating net are you talking increasing the pace of drops the size or both? It -- well first of all I don't think -- I don't know that we ever guided to the number of drops per year but the dollar amount numbers that you are quoting that's correct is that we were at the time of the IPO probably linking it to midstream CapEx at the EQT level.
I guess you'd say upon further review that is -- EQM is the better place to own some of those assets.
So the timing on the drops is really set more by when an asset at the EQT level is in the position both legally and operationally.
A lot of times it might mean you filled a lot of it up contractually as well so that we can drop it and the capital market's access at the EQM level.
But that's really what's setting it.
And therefore I don't really want to give a number on how -- or what the dollar amount would be but you should expect that until we start running low that we're going to be averaging well above that level of the EQT Midstream CapEx.
And of course the other moving piece is as EQM continues to grow it's a little easier for EQM to wear projects at the EQM level right? I mean the main reason we haven't been doing very much investment at the EQM level is because that vehicle is very difficult to have a lot of cash in -- or a lot of investments in noncash generating projects.
So that wait period from when you start putting the cash in to when you get the cash flow out from fees that's tough.
It's tough to have too much of that.
But as EQM grows it's easier to have more of that and to be able to wear more projects at that level.
So that's the other thing that you should be seeing which we probably didn't -- we talked about the possibility of that happening at the time of the IPO but we weren't really anticipating any specific projects.
And now we're tending to look more at projects that would be at the EQM level.
Okay great.
And with that should we think of any amount of CapEx midstream CapEx that's now being spent by EQM as being used in the upstream business? Is that a one-for-one type relationship there? No.
We tend to have more of the -- don't mind [ph] would be too much of a purist but money is fungible and you make the right investment decisions based on what you think creates the most value and you don't necessarily say money from this area goes into that area.
It's much more of what do we think will create the most value.
Practically speaking we are focusing the EQM investments on projects that tend to support other producers a little bit more.
And the EQT Midstream projects are a little bit more the ones that support EQT.
But I think at this point that's just kind of happenstance it's not necessarily that there's some philosophy.
The philosophy is just keep assessing how can we create more shareholder value.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Pat Kane for any closing remarks.
Thanks Chad and thank you all for participating.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the EQT Corp.
Year-End 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Patrick Kane.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Amy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation's Year-End 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Executive Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a 7-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
The telephone number for the replay is (412) 317-0088.
There's a confirmation code needed.
The code is 10025554.
The call will also be replayed for 7 days on our website.
To remind you the results of EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM are consolidated in EQT's results.
There's a separate press release issued by EQM this morning and there's a separate conference call today at 11:30 a.m.
today which creates a hard stop for this call at 11:25.
If you're interested in the EQM call the dial-in number is (412) 317-6789.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT's operational and financial results for the year-end 2013 which were released this morning.
Next Steve will summarize the reserve report.
And finally Dave will provide an update on strategic and operational matters.
Following Dave's remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will all be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements relating to future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today's press release under Risk Factors in EQT's Form 10-K for year ended December 31 2012 which was filed with the SEC and were -- have been updated in subsequent Form 10-Qs which are also on file with the SEC.
There will also be additional information in the year ended December 31 2013 Form 10-K which will be released next week.
Today's call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning's press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced 2013 adjusted earnings of $2.32 per diluted share compared to $1.41 per diluted share in 2012.
The high-level story for the year as well as for the fourth quarter was very strong volume growth and lower unit of cash costs in both the Production and the Midstream businesses.
Notably Production volume was 43% higher than last year natural gas liquids volume was 47% higher and Midstream gathering volume was up by about 39%.
As a result EQT earnings and EPS for 2013 were both up considerably over 2012 by any measure.
Although both years were impacted by some unusual items that should be considered when interpreting and comparing results year-over-year.
I will touch on a couple of these in my comments and I do refer you to our non-GAAP reconciliations in today's release.
Adjusted operating cash flow of $1.25 billion in 2013 was also up considerably.
It was actually 43% higher than last year.
And as a reminder a full year of EQT Midstream Partners or EQM results in 2013 and 2 quarters of EQM results in 2012 are consolidated into EQT's results even though a portion of EQM was owned by the noncontrolling interest during those periods.
EQT did receive a total of $33.4 million in distributions from EQM during 2013.
In the fourth quarter as you know by now we completed the sale of Equitable Gas and received $740 million in cash plus some Marcellus Midstream assets as consideration.
And also we entered into some commercial arrangements with the purchaser as part of the sale.
The sale somewhat complicates the comparison of EPS and cash flow to last year as we estimate that we would have earned about $9 million pretax from that business over the second half of December had we still owned it.
This would've increased our EPS and cash flow per share by about $0.04 for the quarter and the year.
As required by GAAP we carved up the gain on the sale the transaction costs associated with the sale and the Distribution business earnings for 2013 and included those items in the discontinued operations line on the income statement.
The after-tax gain on the sale totaled $43.8 million and pretax transaction costs were about $8 million for the year and $4.8 million for the fourth quarter.
Also in the fourth quarter Midstream sold its commercial marketing and trading business for a pretax gain of $19.6 million.
This gain is in Midstream's results from continuing operations but excluded from our adjusted EPS and adjusted cash flow numbers in the table in today's release.
Another adjustment that we made to our reported results was the add back of a noncash expense for hedge ineffectiveness totaling $21.3 million for the year and $16.8 million in the fourth quarter.
Again these items are detailed in the release.
Fourth quarter 2013 adjusted earnings were $0.47 per diluted share.
That compares to adjusted EPS of $0.43 in the fourth quarter 2012.
A significantly higher production in Midstream volumes once again drove the results.
Adjusted operating cash flow at EQT was $336 million in the fourth quarter of '13 compared to $299 million for the fourth quarter of '12.
Our operational performance continued to be outstanding in the fourth quarter with 32% higher production volumes than the fourth quarter of 2012 and 6% higher sequentially than the third quarter of 2013.
We also realized 24% higher gathering volume than last year and continued low per-unit operating costs.
And finally the fourth quarter effective tax rate was 48.2% well above the 33.6% effective tax rate for the entire year.
This higher tax rate in the fourth quarter primarily results -- relates to the continued shift in the company's business to states with higher tax rates most notably Pennsylvania and was partially offset by state tax benefits associated with the Distribution business sale transaction.
This higher tax rate reduced EPS for the fourth quarter by $0.15 per share versus what we would have reported using the annual rate.
Now moving on to a brief discussion of results by business segment and I'll limit my discussion to the full year results as the explanation for the full year basically apply to the fourth quarter as well.
So starting with EQT Production and as has been the case for 4 years now the big story in '13 at EQT Production was growth in sales of produced natural gas.
As I mentioned the growth rate was 43% for the year driven by sales from our Marcellus wells which contributed 73% of the volumes in '13 up from 58% in 2012.
The EQT average wellhead sales price was $4.13 per Mcf equivalent in '13 $0.04 lower than last year.
For segment reporting purposes of that $4.13 per unit of revenue realized by EQT Corporation $3.08 per Mcfe was allocated to the EQT Production with the remaining $1.05 per Mcf equivalent to EQT Midstream.
The majority of this $1.05 is for gathering which was -- which averaged $0.82 per Mcf equivalent for the year down from an average of $1 per Mcf equivalent in 2012.
You'll recall the Marcellus gathering rate is significantly lower than the rates in our other plays.
So as Marcellus volumes grow as a percentage of the total the average gathering rate goes down.
For the full year total operating expenses at EQT Production were $797 million or 32% higher year-over-year.
Absolute DD&amp;A SG&amp;A LOE and production taxes were all higher consistent with the significant production growth.
DD&amp;A expense represented about $169 million or 88% of that increase and it's obviously driven by the higher volume.
Absolute LOE exploration expense and SG&amp;A expense were all a bit higher year-over-year.
However volume increases have been outpacing the general trend of higher absolute expenses.
And as you would expect per-unit expenses were lower again in 2013.
Moving on to the Midstream business.
Excluding the gains on the asset sale that I mentioned earlier operating income here was up 30% consistent with the 39% growth in gathered volumes.
This resulted in a 16% increase in gathering net operating revenues.
Transmission net revenues also increased by almost 54% year-over-year as a result of added Equitrans capacity mainly from that Sunrise Expansion Project as well as increased throughput.
On the other hand the line item totaled Storage Marketing and Other Net Operating Income was down about $9 million for the year.
This part of the Midstream business relies on seasonal volatility and spreads in the forward curve and has continued to trend down in 2013.
Net operating expenses at Midstream were about 11% higher year-over-year consistent with the growth of the Midstream business.
Similar to Production revenues grew at a much faster rate than expenses resulting in continued reductions in per-unit expenses.
And then finally our standard liquidity update.
We closed the year in a great liquidity position with 0 net short-term debt outstanding under our $1.5 billion revolver and $846 million of cash on the balance sheet.
And since year end EQT received from EQM an additional $110 million in cash for the deferred piece of the Sunrise transaction that was always anticipated following the sale of Equitable Gas.
Based on current commodity prices and assuming a 2014 average negative basis to NYMEX of $0.37 per Mcf we continue to forecast approximately $1.6 billion in operating cash flow for 2014.
So we expect to fund our $2.4 billion 2014 CapEx forecast with that expected cash flow and current cash on hand.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Steve Schlotterbeck to discuss today's reserve release.
Thank you Phil.
This morning we announced year-end 2013 total proved reserves of 8.3 Tcfe which is 2.3 Tcfe or 39% higher than the previous year and represents a reserve replacement ratio of 738%.
I'll now go into more detail around this reserve increase.
Extensions and discoveries totaled 2.0 Tcfe which was comprised of 894 Bcfe reclassified to proved from probable and possible; 583 Bcfe from new locations primarily from closer lateral spacing; and 524 Bcfe from newly economic locations as a result of higher gas pricing improved type curves and reduced drilling costs.
Drilling capital totaled $1.3 billion resulting in the drill bit finding cost of $0.62 per Mcfe.
Our acquisition of properties from Chesapeake in June 2013 resulted in additions to proved reserves of 473 Bcfe of which 42 are proved developed and 431 Bcfe are proved undeveloped.
This year we've begun reporting natural gas liquids as a separate reserve category due to our increasing recovery of NGLs.
The inclusion of NGLs added a net 536 Bcfe to our proved reserves which was comprised of 763 Bcfe of liquids less 227 Bcfe due to processing shrinkage.
NGLs now represent 9% of our proved reserves.
The company's Marcellus proved reserves increased by 1.7 Tcfe or 39%.
This increase is driven by improved recovery per well as illustrated by our 17% increase in Mcfe per foot.
Additions and extensions related to the 2013 program and the aforementioned Chesapeake acreage acquisition.
Offsetting those additions were the removal of 58 Marcellus locations totaling 368 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves due to changes in our 5-year development plan.
We've also included 215 Bcfe of proved reserves in the Upper Devonian formation which is comprised of 109 Bcfe of proved developed reserves and 106 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves.
We added 350 Bcfe of proved reserves in our Huron play reflecting 1 year of drilling NGLs and the effective higher gas prices.
We have significantly more Huron reserves that meet the standards required to book proved reserves but they were not booked as a result of not having an established development plan for the Huron beyond 2014.
Our 3P reserves or the total proved probable and possible reserves increased 10.5 Tcfe to 36.4 Tcfe a 40% increase over the prior year.
This increase was comprised of 3.5 Tcfe in the Marcellus 4.1 Tcfe in the Huron 2.4 Tcfe in the Upper Devonian and 0.5 Tcf in other formations.
And finally we are adjusting our guidance for our DD&amp;A rate for 2014 to reflect the finalized reserve report.
We now estimate our per-unit DD&amp;A to be $1.25 per Mcfe or $0.25 lower than 2013.
Also as you will see in our 10-K that we expect to file next week our PV-10 was $3.95 billion 84% higher than last year reflecting both the increase in proved reserves and higher commodity prices.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Porges for his comments.
Thank you Steve.
Given that the results for the fourth quarter have already been covered I will use my time to walk through our thought process around our 2014 capital expenditure plans.
First our largest investment is in continued development of our Marcellus acreage.
This investment is our highest return opportunity and is driving our growth.
We are drilling 90% of our Marcellus for development purposes on multi-well pads about evenly split between our West Virginia liquids-rich acreage and our Southwestern Pennsylvania acreage.
We are drilling 10% of our wells in Central Pennsylvania to delineate this acreage in anticipation of future development.
This will assist in determining the most efficient completion techniques spacing and appropriate sizing for the gathering systems.
We also plan to drill 30 Upper Devonian wells again in development mode in our core Marcellus footprint for Upper Devonian as a separate target that is shallower than the Marcellus.
These wells are drilled on Marcellus pads using the same rigs and completion equipment that is on-site thereby increasing the productivity and profitability of our acreage.
We also announced a limited restart of our Huron program.
This decision has 2 benefits: first the economics of the current strip provide an adequate return as we are using existing gathering capacity; and second by arresting the decline of the Huron volumes the gathering system becomes a more viable candidate to be dropped into our MLP EQT Midstream Partners or EQM.
In our Ohio Utica play we announced a 21 well program for 2014.
The intent of this program is to see if we can crack the code in the condensate light oil window.
While our first 3 wells were frankly mediocre we are encouraged enough by initial results to try very specific changes to our drilling and completion design intended to improve the economics materially.
If we are successful there is significant acreage available nearby at relatively inexpensive prices largely because of the skepticism about this part of the play.
As you know we pride ourselves on being innovative but we need to be confident that successful innovation creates a sufficient reward and the ability to expand our Utica opportunity set economically provides that.
By year end we hope to either demonstrate sufficient improvements in which case it would make sense to add acreage or conclude that we cannot achieve the needed improvements at this time and discontinue drilling.
On the Midstream side we are investing $475 million.
The largest pieces of this are $345 million in gathering systems to add capacity for EQT drilling in Pennsylvania and West Virginia and $90 million in upgrades to the FERC-regulated transmission line that was acquired as part of the consideration for the Distribution company sale.
EQM is investing another $50 million in organic growth projects.
As the cash flow grows at the MLP it will be able to invest more capital intended to create organic growth.
Another project that our Midstream group is working on is the Ohio Valley Connector.
While this project does not impact the 2014 capital budget we mention it because in January EQM initiated a FERC open season to assess interest in the project.
So you may read about this proposed project in the industry press.
This project extends the transmission system from West Virginia to Clarington Ohio thereby connecting Equitrans to Texas Eastern and REX.
In summary EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by accelerated the monetization of our reserves and other opportunities.
We continue to be focused on earning the highest possible returns from our investments and are doing what we can to increase the value of your shares.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and appreciate your continued support.
And with that I will turn the call back over to Pat Kane.
Thank you Dave.
That concludes the comments portion of the call.
Amy can we please now open the call up for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Neal Dingmann at SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Steve -- a question for maybe Steve or David.
David you were talking a little bit just there about the Utica.
My question is maybe on the Utica.
I know some of your peers have mentioned around that Southwestern PA area I know certainly where you have some acreage.
They've talked about potential Utica potential in that area.
Just wondering your or Steve's thoughts about that and if you would considered testing for any of that at this point? Neal this is Steve.
We certainly have studied that pretty extensively.
And our current view is we think the dry gas Utica in Southwestern Pennsylvania certainly has potential from a resource perspective.
Our studies show that there could be significant amounts of gas in place.
Our concerns are that the depth of the formation therefore the economics of it where our existing acreage position is.
So that said I think our view is it'd be difficult for Utica well under our existing acreage right now to be competitive economically with the Marcellus.
Even if it was likely to produce significant amounts of gas the costs because of the depths and the higher pressures the higher pressure frac-ing equipment everything else involved with operating at those depths and pressures we're not sure it'd be competitive.
That said I think we would -- we are -- we would think about whether a test but more of a science test would make sense.
And we haven't committed to do that yet or not to do that but if we think it's warranted and we think we'll learn enough from a test we might choose to do that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up Steve.
On -- obviously the -- amount of Huron that you're getting booked -- I mean a couple of questions on maybe first -- I'm sorry skipping around a little bit.
First I think look at the Devonian potential.
On those would you think about sort of drilling in those wells the same way that you've been drilling the Marcellus? Or does it make sense to have maybe a shorter lateral or anything around.
I'm just trying to get a sense of sort of type curves between the 2.
I think the drilling and completion techniques for the most part we think are similar.
Now we custom-design our frac jobs for really every well based on the geology we're in.
So we wouldn't necessarily have an Upper Devonian well frac-ed exactly the same as a Marcellus well below it.
But I think in terms of lateral length our view would be they're almost certainly going to be the same length.
And I think our view right now is that we'll likely get the best stimulation of the Upper Devonian by frac-ing it at the same time as the Marcellus or within the same proximity of time rather than waiting several years say down the road.
So as we progress with Upper Devonian development it'll most likely be a combined development program with the Marcellus and Upper Devonian.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on the Huron.
How much capital or have you said yet will you commit to that this year or -- and sort of a percentage of total? Let me grab that number for you.
Neal this is Pat.
We're budgeting $180 million to drill 120 drilling wells in '14.
Our next question comes from Drew Venker at Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Are there any new Utica wells in Ohio that you could speak about? Any new well results? No.
We don't have any well results and it'll be likely mid-year before we start getting results from our revised completion program.
So midyear at the earliest I'm not sure we'll be talking about them mid-year.
So I don't want to get your expectations up but it'll be awhile before we even start to get results ourselves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how do the lateral lengths compare for your '14 program versus the first 3 you talked about? For the Utica? Research Division</strong> Right.
That's right.
The lateral lengths I think the average for the next 5 wells is...
6 500 feet is the average that we're projecting for the year.
Research Division</strong> And Pat what was -- what were the first 3 months? I don't know exactly.
I think it's consistent.
Yes.
They were just north of 6 000.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so is the thinking of not releasing results that you kind of potentially have better results and then you can lease up acreage.
Is that the thinking? Well I think yes that's a big part of it.
And we tend to like to make sure we understand the results before we start talking about them.
So sometimes that takes a little bit of time.
So the biggest driver would be if successful if we unlock the code in that oily part of the Utica we want to take advantage of that knowledge before we let everybody else know.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm sorry if I missed this -- you mentioned it before.
Do you guys have a plan to test Utica potential in West Virginia? Is there anything on the docket for this year? No.
Yes not in the near term.
Eventually what we're probably going to do with the Utica that sits underneath our existing Marcellus is down the road at some point probably measured in years we will take advantage of the fact that we already have some infrastructure set up and that will improve the economics.
But that doesn't make any sense when we're in the midst of the development of the Marcellus and the Upper Devonian.
So no near term plans for development.
The next question comes from Scott Hanold at RBC Capital Market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Couple of questions just to clarify.
So production guidance for 2014 that assumes basically your new 6:1 sort of methodology on ethane is that correct? Yes that's right.
That's 6:1 on the liquids.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And so when we look at where you're kind of coming into -- in the first quarter and where growth could be it seems like you all are attracting -- it seems like you're attracting well into the high end if not a little bit higher.
Can you just generally talk about just at a high level progression and more so if there are any kind of constraints for us to think about our timing that we need to think about in terms of quarterly progression or production? At this point it's -- of course there's always -- in a play that's growing this rapidly or an area that's growing this rapidly there's always going to be midstream constraints.
There always have been and there will be until the growth rates at some point wind up slowing down.
But that said what we're really affected by more -- typically is just the timing of turning in line these big multi-well pads.
And at this point I think it looks like 2014 is more likely to be a year in which some of that is a bit more back-end loaded than it was say in 2013.
You may recall that in 2012 it was also kind of back-end loaded.
And then in 2013 it was a little bit more front-end loaded just the way the timing happened to work out.
In 2014 -- of course there's wells being turned in line essentially every month.
But as far as the proportions it tends to be weighted often more in one direction or another.
And I'd say 2014 it would be best for you to assume that it's going to be a bit more in the back end side which in a sense will set us up well for 2015 also but that certainly influenced our view for total volumes in 2014.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just looking obviously at the numbers your [indiscernible] in wells not completed and completed and online.
It's obviously at a pretty good peak right now.
And obviously you guys remain pretty active.
Is there any midstream projects that are really key for you guys here in the next 12 to 18 months just to kind of reference? Well I mean I think as -- Scott this is Randy.
I mean we're always staying out in front of production and we're pretty confident in our operations and plan.
I would say our Sunrise Expansion that we kind of coming on in the third quarter the compression expansion which is on track and on time is a major initiative for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now that's helpful.
And on the sales of utility can you give us what the I guess net of any kind of cash tax would have been on that? And what is your cash position right now? Or...
I actually provided the cash position in my comments.
We had $846 million on the balance sheet at year end.
We did receive another $110 million that was a deferred piece of the Sunrise transaction that we had talked about back in the middle of the year.
And in the release this morning we did show that cash taxes associated with the utility sale of around $68 million so we received $740 million and paid taxes of about $68 million on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right right.
So the $110 million occurred after the year but...
So it's not in the one $846 million.
It would be additive to that.
But of course we're [indiscernible].
But if you want to add you just can't just add the operating cash flow to the $846 million.
You have to add in that $110 million that we received actually from EQM as part of that I guess you'd call it like a mini drop.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood understood.
And one last question here.
The general partner obviously you guys are stepping back and kind of evaluating value within EQT overall.
And can you give us your current thoughts on the general partner and kind of different directions that could go? Sure.
Let me take a shot at that.
I think hopefully it's obvious we've been pretty focused on realizing the full value of the EQT Midstream interest that EQT owns in the EQT stock price.
We've really been doing that I think for the last several years.
It started with our decision a few years ago to sell some noncore midstream assets to folks who valued them frankly more highly than we did.
Those kind of -- those were actually buyers -- those buyers were MLPs and we noted that.
We continued reforming our own MLP.
And so we did that 1.5 years ago to the big drop earlier this year.
We're still in the early stages of those drop downs which we believe allow EQT to achieve a premium valuation for our midstream assets but at the same time maintaining control and benefiting from the accretion and value to the EQM LP units and GP interests that EQT can continues to own.
Now the GP interest is probably the least visible and most often overlooked midstream interest owned by the company.
But it too as you know is extremely valuable.
The GP cash flows to EQT are pretty small currently.
They were about $2 million of GP distributions in 2013 but we expect that to grow rapidly and reach $40 million or more by 2015 and over $70 million in 2016.
So while some of the parts analysis can be tricky one can certainly make the argument and some of you on the call already have made it that the full value of EQT Midstream interest including the LP and GP interest is not transparent in the current EQT stock price.
And frankly we tend to agree at this point.
So -- and if we do conclude that a clear value disconnect exists there are a variety of alternatives available to us to address that.
You know what they are.
Some of our energy industry peers have already taken similar steps.
So Scott I'm not going to address and/or list them today.
I think it's a little premature to discuss what they are.
There are a variety of factors that could cause us to go down one path versus another.
So I guess to summarize I would say at this point we expect to have a pretty good idea of what we want to do if anything by the end of this year.
And frankly it's not clear that it would be wise to take any significant action before then anyway.
Said differently just as we want to make sure that EQT shareholders benefit from transparency and the valuation of our midstream interest we don't want to deprive them of that value by transferring a significant portion of it to another party by acting too soon.
So I hope that helps for now.
That's really about as much as we want to say about that right now.
Suffice it to say that it's an issue that we're studying closely.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So it sounds like we'll hear more about that towards at the end of the year.
Okay fair enough.
Our next question comes from Michael Hall of Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> The -- let's see.
I've got plenty to ask about.
I guess while we're on the topic of the value -- transparency of the value of the portfolio.
What's the kind of latest thinking on drop downs this year? I know you're a little hesitant to talk about timing of it but I'm just curious like is it one large drop down multiple drop downs? How big of a roll moving or escalating -- potential escalation of interest rates play into that thinking? Just any update around that plan that you'd be willing to share.
I don't know if we want to talk about 1 versus 2 for particular assets.
But I will maybe reiterate that we are still thinking unlike we were talking about at the time of the IPO but this thinking has evolved to the point where we're still thinking that the right answer is to have a more accelerated rather than a less accelerated drop schedule.
And I agree with the premise of your question that the prospect of higher interest rates was one of the reasons for doing that.
But from my perspective at least a more fundamental reason for it is that is a lower cost of capital vehicle than the corporation.
And I think a lot of that is because of the transparency issue.
The folks who invest in that vehicle which is to say EQM are looking for exactly that type of asset.
And since it's their pistol so to speak they are willing to offer more favorable valuations in the marketplace for that.
And therefore that's the best home of -- for those assets.
So that is the mindset that we've got as we look at drops as opposed to if you will what we talked about at the time of the EQM IPO which was sizing it to EQT's midstream capital requirements.
Now what's the rate at which EQM can digest these is really more the issue.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And what would be the constraints around the rate at which EQM could digest them? Well part of it of course so they're going to fund -- there's the combination of equity and debt so the capital markets availability is one of the issues for them.
Another one is that they are best off with projects typically where every -- most of their projects be projects whereby they're already generating cash flow.
So the projects where there's still a lot of construction going on tend not to be as good a fit for an entity that is paying out the vast majority of its cash flow in the form of distributions.
And it's hard to keep up growth if you do that and of course we are focused on continuing to grow that distribution.
So typically they want to have these projects to be ones that have already been fully contracted and turned in line et cetera.
That said as EQM grows it is able to wear if you will a higher dollar amount in projects that are under construction.
And we do think you should expect to see that as we go forward.
But of course accelerating drops means that we more quickly get to the point where EQM can absorb bigger and bigger projects on its own and quite possibly have some of these projects especially ones that are designed to support other producers occur at the EQM level and never having going through EQT.
Does that help? LLC</strong> Yes it does.
I guess last on that and I'll -- just it would be curious.
In the outline you've got quite a cash position already.
Clearly some outspend in the '14 budget that that would I guess fund.
But then you got likely some drops come in this year as well.
Is that capital -- I mean are there future capital allocations I guess that could come throughout the rest of the year regarding the 2014 upstream program? Or are we pretty well set and whatever capital comes in this year really just funds 2015? Just trying to think that through.
We're not setting capital programs based on cash availability.
That's not up something we want to get into.
I mean obviously we look at investment opportunities but frankly with this kind of cash position you look at stock repurchases also.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And so yes that was kind of a follow-on.
I mean is that something that is higher up on the list than it has been let's say in the last 6 months? Well just because we don't -- we certainly would not consider ourselves to be capital constrained right now.
I mean that would not be a good mindset for us to have.
We could fund the attractive projects.
So from that -- and probably I don't know before -- certainly before EQM was formed we probably would have viewed ourselves as capital constrained from the perspective of cash availability compared to the volume the dollar volume of attractive investment opportunities.
So that has changed over the course of the last 1.5 years or so.
And obviously the sale of the Distribution company furthers that.
So yes from that perspective it is higher up.
If you're referring to how attractive share repurchases would look.
Yes that is higher up than it would have been.
LLC</strong> Yes that's helpful.
Okay.
And then I guess the last one on my end would just be any updates or just maybe remind me on your marketing arrangements that protect around basis risk as we head into the summer? Any steps that are being taken to further protect around those risks on a go-forward basis? Well Michael in terms of our capacity portfolio and really I guess I would comment the colder-than-normal winter has certainly been helpful in terms of increased demand and record storage withdrawals.
And over this period of time we've seen better realized pricing in the Appalachian basin.
So we're more optimistic than we maybe when heading into the winter season and we have seen some support in the summer basis as the market looks to balance for power generation as well as refill the storage.
So -- but in terms of capacity we have stressed in the past we continue to look at and make commitments on long-haul pipelines to get gas to a variety of markets.
Our goal is always to stay ahead of our production growth and not relying on just one spot market.
We've recently entered into several agreements that have added to that portfolio and I'll go and give you few of those.
Our most significant addition became effective on February of this year February 1.
That's when we added 245 000 dekatherms a day of capacity for approximately 7 years on Texas Eastern system to the M3 market and the Transco Zone 5 markets.
And both of these appear stronger relative to other basins.
So in total we currently have almost 950 000 dekatherms a day of firm pipeline capacity out of the basin plus we have approximately 350 000 dekatherms per day of firm sales for a total of 1.3 million deks per day.
And again in addition to that by the end of 2014 based on existing commitments we'll have about 1.6 million dekatherms per day between firm pipeline capacity and firm sales.
So with that we always feel comfortable with our position in 2014 and heading into '15.
And again moving forward we'll continue to add our firm capacity portfolio and add to the diversity of our markets including the Midwest and the Southeast market.
And we remain incidentally very happy to utilize the expertise and the assets we have in the midstream area to redirect gas flows as appropriate to meet market needs.
Our next question comes from Phillip Jungwirth at BMO.
A couple of quick questions on the reserve report.
That the 7.2 Bs or 1.7 per thousand lateral split the EURs for the Marcellus.
Does that include -- is that only PUDs or does that also include the PDPs? And then what would be the difference to the 2 Bs per thousand foot of your type curve in Southwest PA and Northwest Virginia? So could you repeat that? I couldn't hear the first part of your question.
I was just asking if the proved reserves EUR booking that you had highlighted in the press release includes the older PDPs or is that just PUDs.
That's all proved reserves so including PDPs.
Do you know what the PUDs were booked at? And then also the future development costs assumed in the PV-10 calculation? I don't think we have that handy.
Maybe I could follow-up with you after the call.
We don't have that data in front of us.
Okay.
And then in the Huron can you talk about your expectations for 2014 volumes given the renewed activity there? And then under that scenario what would be the gathering EBITDA for that asset? The gathering EBITDA I think is in $50 million to $75 million range.
It will depend on commercial contracts and things like that.
But that's sort of a range that we're using right now.
And from a volume perspective the program was designed to flatten the decline or to basically keep throughput flat with maybe a couple single-digit percent increase in throughput.
But that's how the level of drilling was determined.
But one of the things we have to go through as we look at a drop just so you know is pretty much decide what we think the right rates are because right now probably 99% of the volumes that are flowing through those systems are EQT volumes.
So there's really not an issue of having to have arm's length agreements.
But obviously ahead of the drop we're going to need to relook at those tariffs to relook at the other contractual terms as well.
And that is something actually that we are working through to make sure that what we come up with we think is in the best interest of EQT as a whole.
And the numbers Phil gave you gives you a pretty good decent snapshot of where we are now but we're relooking at that in the context of the -- of prospective future drop.
That makes sense.
And then is it too early to talk about the total expansion opportunity for the Ohio Valley Connector just in terms of increased capacity capital spending? I think if I think back to Equitrans or Sunrise Expansion you'd added about 1 Bcf a day for 300 million.
How does that compare to what your expectations are for the Ohio Valley Connector? Well I'd say right now I mean it's a bit early because we're in the process of the open season.
And so we're scoping that out but I think as you think about that project and the market demand for that we would kind of view that as similar to what we were working on to a Sunrise-type project.
But it is early and we're scoping out the demand right now in terms of the size and the capital that will be spent.
And then last just 2 quick modeling questions.
On the lower DD&amp;A is that going to trend lower throughout the year? Or would that be the run rate beginning in the first quarter? And then also expectations for tax rate for the year given the minority interest from the MLP increasing? So the DD&amp;A rate is a flat rate for the -- that'd be a good rate for you -- use for your modeling for the full year.
I don't know that we've said anything about the tax rate right now.
Obviously you're right.
It trends down because of the issue that you mentioned.
I would say use a similar rate as this year for now without knowing anymore.
It's going to obviously vary depending on a lot of factors.
The next question comes from Cameron Horwitz at U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> Dave I was hoping can you just maybe give us a little color on the M&amp;A landscape and kind of the deal for opportunity that you're seeing in the Marcellus opportunities that acred similar to what you did last year? Yes.
I don't know if I -- I still have a view that we're going to see a lot more acreage of the sort -- that sort of transaction come up over the course of time.
But I don't know that I have anything specific to offer around what the landscape looks like right now.
Steve do you have anything specific that you want to...
No.
Just as he said it's typical.
It ebbs and flows and I think we're seeing more smaller little deals right now.
But I would expect that that'll -- deals come and go in this business.
So we're not really seeing anything of note positive or negative in terms of a change.
So I think there's still opportunities out there and we're pursuing them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then just lastly for me.
On the -- and forgive me if you said it but the 368 that came off the books in the Marcellus you talked about the changes in the development plan.
Was it -- is there anymore color you can provide just where that was? They were spread out a little bit.
But they were more in second-tier areas where as we've defined and focused our drilling our plans have been more concentrated in certain areas than we were anticipating a few years ago when we originally booked those PUDs.
And per the SEC guidelines once we -- once we have a development plan that doesn't include those we thought it was appropriate to remove them.
But they're -- from a technical standpoint they would still qualify as PUDs.
They were only removed because when we're looking at where we're going to drill based on results but also based on available capacity and all those factors they just didn't fit anymore.
So really not much more to it than that.
And you're going to see that I think over the course of time.
Over the last couple of years or maybe little bit more than that the SEC has gotten a pretty strict about that so we take that very seriously.
And we'll check that with our 5-year development plan.
And if something isn't in it we'll just remove it.
It doesn't mean that we think any lesser of those reserves and they presumably will show back up as proved reserves at some point in the future.
But for now all we have is the 5-year plan that we've gotten blessed by the board at this moment and then we'll go from there.
At this time we show no further questions.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Patrick Kane for any closing remarks.
Thanks -- thank you everybody for participating.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone and welcome to the EQT Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please also note that today's event is being recorded.
This time I would like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
Patrick Kane Chief Investor Relations officer.
Mr.
Kane please go ahead.
Thanks Jamie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corp.'s first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Executive Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a 7-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
The telephone number for the replay is (412) 317-0088.
The confirmation code is 10037662.
The call will be replayed for 7 days on our website as well.
To remind you the results of EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM are consolidated in EQT's results.
There was a separate press release issued today by EQM and there's a separate conference call today at 11:30 a.m.
which creates a hard stop for this call at 11:25 a.m.
If you're interested in the EQM call the dial-in number is (412) 317-6789.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT's operational and financial results for the first quarter of 2014 which were released this morning.
Then Dave will provide an update on strategic and operational matters.
Following Dave's remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements related to future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today's press release under Risk Factors in EQT's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 which was filed with the SEC as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are on file at the SEC and available on our website.
Today's call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning's press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced first quarter 2014 adjusted earnings per diluted share of $1.35 which represents a 214% increase over adjusted EPS in the first quarter of 2013.
Adjusted operating cash flow also increased by 57% to $483 million in the quarter.
As a reminder EQT Midstream Partner results are consolidated in EQT Corp.'s results and EQT recorded about $18.7 million of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests or about $0.12 per diluted share in the first quarter.
We had a very solid operational quarter including record produced natural gas sales and record gathering volumes at Midstream the high-level story for the quarter was strong volume growth and higher realized prices coupled with lower unit cost in both the Production and the Midstream businesses.
While our volume growth in the quarter was a little ahead of the guidance we provided at year-end the realized price was probably quite a bit above expectations so I will start by walking you through some details around realized price this quarter.
First NYMEX was 48% higher than last year at $4.94 per MMBtu.
As you're aware there are a variety of factors that will cause our realized price to vary from NYMEX many of which were listed in the press release this morning.
One of the most obvious factors is basis which average a negative $0.22 per Mcf equivalent in the first quarter compared to approximately flat with NYMEX during the first quarter of 2013.
From a reporting perspective EQT accounts for its basis relative to NYMEX at the first liquid delivery point.
And even though we delivered to many points the average basis has tended to be close to the TETCO M2 price where approximately half of our gas is sold.
And that was certainly the case in the first quarter as TETCO M2 was also a negative $0.22 per MMBtu.
One point of clarification as opposed to spot prices you may see reported much of our gas is sold based on a bid week price which is set by taking the last 5 business days of the month preceding the delivery month.
For example March 25 through the 31st of March for deliveries throughout April.
And that is otherwise known as first of month or FOM pricing as it's often referred to.
EQT's realized price also varies from NYMEX due to revenue deductions for the net cost of third-party gathering and transmission and our transportation costs are reported in that line item.
These costs were often partially offset by selling the gas into higher-priced markets utilizing our transportation capacity and by reselling unused transportation capacity when we have it.
And that was the case in the first quarter with the unusually cold temperatures.
So much of the increased prices that we received in those markets more than -- so much so that much of the increased prices we received in those quarters more than offset our entire third-party transportation cost.
So instead of what normally has been a deduction we are reporting positive net revenue of $0.64 per Mcf equivalent associated with our third-party capacity more than offsetting the negative basis this quarter.
To kind of tie all that together and removing the negative $0.21 per Mcf equivalent related to hedge and effectiveness EQT Corp.
realized $5.50 per Mcf equivalent in the first quarter or 33% higher than in the first quarter last year.
Moving now to EQT Production operating results.
The story in the quarter of Production continues to be the growth of sales in produced natural gas.
The growth rate was 30% in the recently completed quarter over the first quarter of 2013.
That growth rate was almost all organic and was driven by sales from our Marcellus and Upper Devonian shale plays which saw together volume growth of 50% versus last year.
NGL volumes were also 16% higher than last quarter than the first quarter of 2013.
As discussed price also contributed as the realized price of EQT Production was $4.40 per Mcf equivalent compared to $3.05 per Mcf equivalent last year.
Total operating expenses at Production were $191 million or $14.1 million higher quarter-over-quarter.
Higher DD&amp;A expense accounted for $16 million of that increase and was driven by volume growth and partially offset by a lower average depletion rate in 2014.
Production taxes were $5.2 million higher consistent with the higher volumes.
And other operating expenses at Production were about $2.6 million higher.
And sales continue to grow at significantly faster pace than expenses bringing that cost continue to improve.
For example per unit LOE excluding Production taxes of $0.14 per Mcfe was 13% lower than last year.
Moving on to Midstream results.
Operating income here was up 12%.
This is consistent with the growth of gathered volumes and increased capacity-based transmission charges.
Gathering net operating revenues increased by 9% to $89.4 million as gathering volumes increased by 25% but were somewhat offset by the average gathering rate which declined by 12%.
The decline in rate continues to be driven by the increasing Marcellus mix which as you know has significantly lowered gathering rates than the other plays.
Transmission net revenues increased by $14.8 million or 40% as additional firm capacity was sold in the second quarter 2013 and we also received transmission revenue associated with the Allegheny Valley Connector system acquired as part of the consideration for the utility sale last December.
Storage marketing and other net operating revenues were down $2.5 million in the first quarter.
Net operating expenses at Midstream were $11 million higher quarter-over-quarter as a result of our growth in Midstream activities.
But here again on a per-unit basis gathering and compression expense was down 16% as a result of volumes growing faster than expenses.
And then just a brief summary on liquidity.
EQT exited the first quarter of 2014 with approximately $900 million in cash on hand and full availability under EQT's $1.5 billion credit facility.
So we remain in a great liquidity position to accomplish our goals for the remainder of 2014.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Dave Porges.
Thank you Phil.
This was another strong quarter.
But since the results were pretty straightforward I'll focus my comments on the related issues of realized price and basis.
In our discussions with investors over the past several months there have been many questions around these topics at the basis in our region with some premium to or parity with Henry Hub to discount.
Over time basis should reflect the transportation cost in the producing regions of the market.
This notion has been tested recently because of the historic construct of the producing regions being near the Gulf Coast and the market being in the northeast has clearly been turned on its head due to the tremendous growth of Marcellus production.
Thus while EQT has only sold and will continue to sell to the local market most of our efforts recently have been to ensure that we have sufficient capacity on long-haul pipes to ship our gas to other considering markets an imperative that couldn't really exist but with the growth in Marcellus production.
More specifically in total we currently have 980 000 dekatherms per day of firm pipeline capacity out of the basin and expect to have 1.2 million deks per day by the end of 2014.
We also have about 300 000 deks per day of firm sales.
In total our firm pipeline capacity plus firm sales will total 1.53 million dekatherms per day at the end of 2014.
So we feel very comfortable with our position in 2014 and heading into 2015.
This represents a mix of local sales sales through the traditional Northeast markets and backhaul sales to the Gulf Coast.
We continue to look at and make commitments on long-haul pipeline taking gas to a variety of markets.
But our goal has been to stay ahead of our production growth and take a portfolio approach in end markets in terms of location channel and distribution center et cetera.
We have recently entered into several agreements that add to that portfolio.
Our most significant recent addition became effective on February 1 when we added 225 000 dekatherms per day of capacity for 7 years on the Texas Eastern System TETCO M3.
Another addition is 300 000 dekatherms per day of capacity that will come on November as part of the Texas Eastern sea port [ph] stream process [ph].
We continue to add to this portfolio and to add to the diversity of our markets including the growing Midwest and Southeast markets.
We readily acknowledged that this situation presents challenges for producers.
But it's also true however that when it presents opportunities for midstream company such as ours.
There is really nothing better for the growth prospects of a midstream company than the disconnect between the supply and demand.
For example EQT Midstream Partners or EQM has an active open season on a project that connects Equitrans to Clarington Ohio.
I'll elaborate in a moment.
But our main goal in adding capacity is to ensure the profitable sale of EQT gas but there are times like this winter when the capacity portfolio creates economic value.
In the long cold winter that has just ended which I -- I thought it has ended increased demand we optimized our asset and sold some production to premium-priced markets.
While we do not recorded this in basis it does get reflected as lower net third-party transmission costs.
The benefit of this intersection between Production and Midstream was commercial [indiscernible] which is ultimately reflected in higher realized price.
We have provided guidance on basis and transportation cost the 2 variables besides NYMEX that impact our realized price.
Also today we add in a slide in our analyst presentation that shows our approximate exposure to various pricing points and is consistent with the capacity update I had just provided.
There are ranges on the slide but you will see that a little under half of our gas is sold at a little less than 30% of TETCO M3 and a little over 10% at both NYMEX and [indiscernible].
We will update this slide periodically as we continue to add capacity.
There are a few other topics that I would like to comment on briefly.
First the prospective sale of midstream assets from EQT to EQM.
As we have discussed in the past we didn't -- we do plan a drop-down this year.
But as is our norm we will not provide specific guidance on its size or timing we'll just announce it when it occurs.
Please note that EQM's recent distribution announcement is consistent with our guidance that the JT will be into the high splits by the end of 2014.
The next comment is on the Utica.
While we do not have any Utica results to share with you today we do have an activity update.
Our original capital budget contemplated drilling 21 Utica wells this year.
We have revised that number to 0.
Our current plan is just with only 5 wells that were spud in 2013.
The first 3 will be completed in the current quarter using the different frac design on the wells completed last year.
We will evaluate the results of the first 3 wells probably revise our approach again and then frac our remaining 2 wells later in the year.
Only after evaluating all those results will we decide whether to drill additional wells and if any such additional wells would not be spud in 2014.
We will use the capital allocated for the 21 Utica wells to drill 8 additional Marcellus wells and 13 additional Upper Devonian wells in 2014.
Volumes from these wells will show up in 2015 but they will not impact our 2014 guidance.
Now for an update on the Ohio Valley Connector project.
In January EQM initiated a nonbinding open season for a third project that is 35 miles long with a volume of 1.2 Bcf per day and an expected cost of about $300 million.
It would extend the Equitrans transmission system from West Virginia to Clarington Ohio and connect with the Rockies Express pipeline and the Texas Eastern pipeline.
Strong interest was expressed in this project.
The estimated in-service date is second quarter of 2016.
As requested by numerous producers EQM also extended a nonbinding open season to garner interest in a second project that would move gas from Clarington to liquidity points further west into Ohio.
This would be compatible with the initial project but would not impact its timing or its cost.
In summary EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by accelerating the monetization of our reserve and other opportunities.
We continue to be focused on earning the highest possible returns from those investments and are doing what we can to increase the value of your shares.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and appreciate your continued support.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Pat.
Thank you Dave.
Jamie we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Christine Cho from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> You have some impressive gains for your third-party gathering and transportation lines.
I know you discussed it but can you talk more about the dynamics of that? Were you marketing someone else's gas or your own? In fact there was some capacity released this Q it was a little unclear to me what's going on.
Also if you can just talk about delivery into which markets drove this dynamic? Sure.
Christine this is Randy.
The majority of the activities are selling our own gas into the -- primarily into the TETCO M3 markets and to this -- but we also have had some capacity releases on our Tennessee's 300 Line as well.
But primarily we enter into those capacity contracts to ensure flow and sharing some diversity at market and pricing.
And so that is primarily there that we see the higher prices that we did this winter.
Research Division</strong> On the TGP 300 line is that mostly for your Huron gas? It certainly does access the Huron gas but we also have the ability to deliver our Marcellus through other interconnections that we have with other capacity.
So we can utilize it in both aspects as well as some of our Tioga gas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can we talk a little bit more about the second leg of this Ohio Valley Connector? When you say you want to go more west are you essentially trying to go parallel to a part of REX because it sounds like REX is going to be full going the other way? And what pipelines are you trying to interconnect to or markets that you're trying to deliver into? Yes.
Sure Christine.
We're looking at -- your point on REX is a good one.
But look producers are looking for diversity of markets right including the Midwest.
And we'll connect to a variety of pipes along the way but certainly there's the ANR pipeline the Panhandle such -- Tennessee along the route are pipelines that I think producers are looking forward to access both the Midwest markets as well as the Gulf Coast.
I think the producers are really focused more on that than the fact that it might or might not parallel.
Right.
They're interested in getting to other markets.
You pick up more interconnects as you move further west into Ohio.
Research Division</strong> And when you talk about more interconnects as you go West are you guys also looking to go north like Michigan and maybe Dawn and I think ANR is offering that on their pipe.
Sure.
I think what we're looking for as David had said to go further west really to hit those liquidity points that will give the producers access to go in either direction quite frankly.
When you connect with some of other additional pipelines you can go north as well as you can -- those pipes are working our projects to turn around and to go into the Gulf Coast as well.
Research Division</strong> I meant the E&amp;P.
It's actually through the alternatives.
We wouldn't be going to Michigan in this size.
This is a size that [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> No no no.
I meant you as a producer would you look to maybe take capacity to go north? We'll certainly look at that.
Our overarching driver is to diversify our market and to realize -- to get to the best markets.
And certainly as part of a diverse portfolio we consider that certainly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me.
Can you discuss what drove your decision to postpone your 2014 Utica program without even getting any of your own well results? Is some of this based on maybe competitor results or just kind of the thinking around there? Christine this is Steve.
I think the decision was driven by the fact that the first wells that we drilled were not where they needed to be to have a viable economic play there.
We have some very specific completion design changes we're going to implement.
And we just thought it prudent to execute those changes get the data evaluate the data.
And do expect that since we're doing it in 2 phases we'll make some changes based on the first phase and then collect the data from the second before we commit a lot of capital dollars into another drilling program.
So we think 5 wells we'll learn a lot from those 5 wells and we just want to be prudent with the capital investments we're making.
Our next question comes from Neal Dingmann from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was trying to look at -- just on your -- the basis differential obviously continues to be very positive for you all.
So you got the recent slide where you all talked about the price uplift either for Steve or one of you I'm just wondering about if you still have the same type of uplift for -- is it still about 35% of the acreage in the West? Is it still considered wet Steve? And then secondly I think on the slide it shows the uplift going from when it's not processed around $5.57 to $6.76.
Is that uplift sort of that percentage still in line or is it even going a bit higher than that? I think both of those numbers are still our best estimate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then what about -- and then if I could just ask a follow-up on that.
I think part of that says -- what are you seeing Steve on the propane side? Is that -- are those numbers holding in as far as -- I think on the prior question kind of talking about different markets where you would go wondering about either on the propane iso-butane or some of these others -- how some of those markets right now look for marketing some of those products? Neal this is Randy.
I'll answer that.
Obviously you've seen the price in propane has remained reasonably strong and it will be exports at the same time till the export project is announced.
And so we are looking into -- at numerous ways to take advantage of that and to get that propane to the best market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay very good.
Then very last question.
Steve are you still comfortable -- I think it's got -- you got this slide that shows the type curves of the 3 different areas still -- are those still holding up? And is there any thoughts about -- as these wells continue to look solid to say the least about maybe even bringing this up anytime soon? Neal I think as you know our practice is to gather data analyze it before we update our type curves.
I think for now those are our best estimates.
I guess the only color I can provide is we've more recently been doing more drilling in the Southern Allegheny portion of our acreage.
And those wells they're still pretty early in their lives.
So it's too early for us to incorporate them into a new type curve.
But I will tell you that they are -- the results have been a little bit better than we expected.
So I think there's reason to be optimistic in that area.
But it's very early the wells are just coming online so we need to see how they hold up before we decide to make any changes either way.
Our next question comes from Scott Hanold from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> To clarify you all provided updated guidance on what you think basis can be $0.40 to $0.60.
Can you just clarify is that just your best view or is there -- do you have some of that locked in at this point? Specifically could we see that bleed up or down through the year? And if you could give any color on if -- going through 2Q 3Q 4Q how that sort of marches along they widen out and then tightening -- back up for the end of the year? Yes.
Scott this is Randy.
Certainly that's our forecast.
We have -- we certainly throughout the year take different positions on hedging our basis.
But obviously there's a lot of volatility in the basis going forward.
And as you get forward into the year into the winter the prices do improve.
And so again I think that the key driver for us is that with our diverse portfolio be ready to access all of these different markets and continue to provide EQT with very good pricing.
And we'll still -- and we're going to continue to utilize our commercial and midstream capabilities to make the best of whatever situation exists whether -- you saw the effect of what happened in the cold winter.
But that's quite possible as you get into the shoulder months in the summer that the focus will be on mitigating any negative effects that we get from basis.
So it's not just the basis numbers it's utilizing the commercial and the midstream capabilities they get the best realized price for their corporation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And I guess regard to my question is if you had a bias -- I mean I know that's your best guess right now but like what does that look like in the summer? Specifically if we were to look at 3Q what kind of basis do you think on average that you all would have of the $0.40 $0.60? What does it look like in kind of that worst quarter of the year? Worse than that.
I don't know that we have a -- I don't think we have -- if I knew what the weather and such was going to be like I could predict.
I would say that the commercial team is doing an excellent job.
They do a great job maximizing the value for EQT.
And I think we'll continue to do that.
But we have no special insight into what M2 is going to be what M3 is going to be or NYMEX is going to be.
We just based on what we see in the market.
It's a kind of joke internally if you know where those things are going you should quit and go into business as a proprietary trader.
But we don't.
We have to deal with the markets as we see them and try to build as much optionality both financially and operationally into our business as we can.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
Appreciate the color.
And just kind of a follow-up on -- maybe it was Neal's type curve question and more again specifically to this quarter.
It seemed like you had a -- the Marcellus sales performance was pretty strong.
Was that a lot to do with those Southern Allegheny wells? It seem like the wells that you tied it was a little less than I thought but production still is a little bit stronger.
Is that what's really driving the performance there? That certainly was a portion of it since some of the new wells were in that -- in the last quarter in the previous quarter in that Southern Allegheny area.
But I think overall it's just continued good performance in the wells.
They seem -- they're holding up very well.
So Southern Allegheny was a contributor to that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you look at like your I guess completion backlog real loaded this quarter.
How is that going to progress through the year? Is that somewhat dictated by infrastructure? Is it going to be a little bit lumpy or linear as we go through the year? It will continue to be lumpy just as it has in the past.
It is driven primarily by drilling and frac-ing timing not so much by infrastructure timing although that occasionally had some small impacts.
It's more with the larger multi-well pads large number of wells tend to come on in chunks.
So we didn't have a lot of new wells come online in the first quarter.
That means in the next couple of quarters we're likely to be a little bit above the run rate.
So it has been chunky and I think it's going to continue to be chunky just from the nature of our drilling completion practices.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we should anticipate the production in the next couple of quarters as well is lifted a little bit more by a higher mono-pad drilling being completed.
Is that a fair context? Well I think you just have to keep in mind that turning wells online in a quarter is very dependent -- the volume impact of that is dependent on when in the quarter that happens.
So you can have a lot of wells come on late in the second quarter and not have much impact in the second quarter.
So just -- you do have to be mindful of that.
But I think our backlog does indicate that over the next couple of quarters we will have quite a few wells coming online.
But we -- look we are particularly focused as a company on multi-well pads often several wells on a pad and a lot of stages per well.
So that's probably a reason that we could show a little bit lumpier results than some of the peer group.
There can be hundreds of stages at one pad.
Our next question comes from Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask you another question on the change in sort of the midstream deductions going from positive $0.64 this year to negative sort of $0.26 last year.
Can you give us a little bit of color on what your expectations are for the rest of this year for that number? Yes.
We put the -- those specific numbers in the release Faisel.
Research Division</strong> But the -- for the -- that's different from your basis assumptions right? Well we get basis and the guidance on that line item as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just as I'm looking at your Marcellus capacity sort of assumptions that you guys just slide -- you guys laid out on your slide deck Page 35.
This market mix is it fair to say that the 11% to 12% that you're assuming for NYMEX that's all the capacity getting to the Gulf? Is that how I should look at it? Right.
That's from our backhaul yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So everything else usually will end up in M3 TCO and M2.
And those are the next step pricing which you guys don't know what it could be.
There are assumptions for it but it could be anything over the course of the year.
Right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the injection rate and the storage for you guys is there any sort of -- given what kind of winter we had this last few months is there any sort of restrictions on the injection rate into storage in terms of just getting back up to full capacity before the season -- the next winter season starts? This is Randy.
As you probably know I mean a lot of northeast storage is reservoir storage.
And so there are certain -- from a utilities perspective a certain amount of injection daily that's required.
But certainly the filling of that storage it will be challenged throughout the year at the low level.
So physically and contractually there are some limitations.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just looking at sequential depreciation and amortization -- DD&amp;A from fourth quarter to the first quarter.
It looked like it ticked down.
Just trying to figure out exactly what caused that to happen.
It was based on the reserve report that we released on the year-end.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's an increase in proved reserves? It's mostly what drove it down.
I think it was $1.50 last year it's about $1.21 in the first quarter.
Our next question comes from Michael Hall from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> I guess just want to come back a little bit on the outlook around basis and marketing.
Number one I guess through the summer that $0.64 gain that you had in the first quarter and given the guidance for the rest of the year I think implies probably around $0.20 or so negative on the gathering and transport.
I'm just trying to understand kind of to what extent there's a possibility that as we work through the summer and into the fall as regional prices look likely to be pretty volatile.
To what extent do you have an ability to repeat what we saw in the first quarter and kind of surprise to the upside by accessing other markets? Was that purely a weather-driven phenomenon in the first quarter or is there really a flexibility that's provided by that line item that can really offset any basis headwinds that make their way through the summer? Yes.
Michael Randy again.
Yes they're both.
Certainly the weather had an impact but these capacity constraints and the optionality that EQT holds and just continue to hold upstream firm capacity contracts certainly provide us the optionality to improve pricing.
Look it's easier to make a lot of money on it frankly when there's a lot of demand.
I mean I just would be straightforward as possible.
And this only isn't -- kind of getting again some of the operational issues.
A thing that I'm maybe not sure we related as an anecdote.
There was a circumstance where some of our commercial folks saw an opportunity move gas in a different direction but it wound up that we have to utilize our compressor station that actually hadn't been run for a while.
So the operations folks in midstream went out and restarted the compressor station and flowed gas to take advantage of that opportunity.
And we will continue to try and leverage our various capabilities to be able to do that.
And it's just a lot easier to do it when we do have high demand.
LLC</strong> Okay I guess -- I'm also just trying to understand this if it's in part a function of -- when we have these big interregional spreads across these different price points does that create an opportunity? So even if you do see a lot of negative basis throughout the region if there's a lot of variability across those different points that there's an opportunity in it for you guys to then...
As long as we do have the assets in place.
I think what you'll see going forward is that we're going to continue to focus on an asset strategy that allows us to have more optionality going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay.
that's helpful.
And then looking out to 2015 you provided the mix in the slide deck today for 2014 as it relates to the different price points you're selling to which is helpful.
How should we think about that evolving in 2015? Was it materially different where we stand today versus what 2014 looks like? And then I guess as a follow-up on that at what point -- as we think about reversals and changing flow dynamics in the Northeast at what point do you see an environment -- and I know it's hard to predict but we're -- maybe we get back to the more normalized typesetting for basis in the Northeast.
I'll take your first part.
David mentioned in his comments we have a 2014 capacity that comes on in November of this year.
That capacity allows us to move gas both to the Northeast syndicate market as well as to the Gulf coast.
So that again will have an impact in 2015 on our realized prices and the optionality.
And your other question was really I guess about the growth in production and that of -- exceeding local markets.
Certainly again that's why we go forward with our continuing in our capacity and access a variety of markets.
And over time it will.
We'll get to a point where there will be more -- enough infrastructure to take the gas to the market.
But that will be a new steady-state so we're not particularly worried over time about the basis going out in a negative way here.
But it is going to wind up reflecting the cost of those reversals et cetera.
So yes we look forward and we see that our region of the country is going to be a net exporter to other regions of the country.
And that's going to get reflected in basis.
But that basis within -- over the next I don't know 3 4 years that starts collecting.
So that [indiscernible] that matches what the cost is of moving the gas.
LLC</strong> And what is that cost really currently as you start looking at...
It depends on where you're going.
You can see examples of the tariffs on the new pipeline projects as they come on.
That's fair [ph].
LLC</strong> And I guess last one on my end just in the Utica what are the completion design changes that you're bringing forward on these next 5 wells? Just kind of what's different in terms of -- versus the prior one? This is Steve.
That's a topic that we're not ready to talk about.
If it works we want the techniques to remain proprietary for a while.
And if it doesn't work you don't really care.
Our next question comes from Andrew Venker from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> In West Virginia there's some talk about a pretty nice Utica play.
Do you see that as prospective on your acreage? Andrew this is Steve.
We're certainly monitoring the results from our competitors in the dry gas Utica.
And certainly as it seems to be moving further east toward where we have larger holdings.
That said we're currently updating our geologic review of the play which we did a couple of years ago.
And right now all I can say is we're updating our assessment of the play and hope to be able to report a little more detail later in the year.
But for now we're monitoring what's going on and taking a closer look at the geology and how our assets sit on top of that.
Research Division</strong> Can you provide some color on just the geology? Is it higher pressure in the Marcellus that sits right on top? It's certainly higher pressure.
It's clearly very widespread from a geologic standpoint.
I think the producibility of the reservoir in certain areas is still an unknown.
I think one of the biggest challenges for us that we're looking hard at is the depth.
So from a cost standpoint the wells are going to be expensive.
Where most of our acreage is the minimum depth we'd be looking at is 10 000 feet all the way up to north of 13 000 perhaps even closer to 14 000 feet in some areas.
So that's a cost challenge as well as a completions challenge.
So we have questions that we need to dig into concerning what will it take to stimulate this reservoir particularly at the 12 000-foot depth at the pressures we'd be looking at.
Can we effectively pump the rates we think we would want? What kind of equipment would it take? What kind of wellbore design would it take? And therefore what would be the cost and the economics? So we're looking into all of those aspects.
But clearly the challenges get a little more difficult as you move further to the east and deeper into the basin.
Research Division</strong> Is there any significant chance that the gas there is overcooked or are you fairly confident that it's dry gas? It's a huge play so I don't think you can make blanket statements.
I think clearly there are areas where it's not overcooked.
But as you approach the deeper areas of the basin it's certainly possible that it is.
So that's why I say the producibility is an unknown especially as you get further to the east.
Our next question comes from Joe Allman from JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> On the Marcellus are you set with your completion techniques? Are you still modifying some of the completion techniques? Joe I'll tell you we'll never be set on our completion techniques.
That will be a constantly evolving practice for us and for probably our competitors.
I don't know that -- we're trying to know an unknowable when it comes to stimulating these reservoirs.
We'll never know all we would like to know to have the perfect design.
So you should expect we will always be [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about some of the recent modifications you made and the impact on production? I'd rather not talk about specifics.
More recently the changes from the Marcellus in our core areas where most of our drilling has been had been focused on small changes around sanitizing pump rates stage sizing those types of things the normal things that completions engineers will be looking at.
In Central PA where we have -- there's a test program going on.
That's -- we're a little early in our understanding of that rock particularly around how we design our completions around faulting and there's more faulting there.
So those are the sort of aspects of the design that we're focused on up there more than in a quieter in core parts of the play for us.
But that's about as specific as I'd like to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I know that Utica is not nearly as important for you as some other plays but can you just repeat what you're going to do there? I think you drilled 7 wells.
Have you completed 2 already and just not terribly satisfied with those results? I think you said you're going to complete 3 using a different technique.
And then -- are you going to complete the next 2 using yet another technique? Could you just describe what you're going to do? Yes it's great.
Actually I think we drilled 8 wells and 3 are online.
The results are certainly not where we'd like them to be and not competitive with our other investments.
So if we can't make improvements it's not a play we put any more capital into.
However based on those results and the data we collected during those completions we saw some very specific things that we want to address in the next stage which will be 3 wells and we're currently implementing right now.
So we're going to finish frac-ing those wells get them online midyear get some results back gather some more data.
Based on that we have 2 more wells that have been drilled that we will likely modify the completion design again.
Frac those get the results.
That will be late in the year.
And then based on all that of data we'll start to make some decisions about do we move forward in this play or do we not move forward? and we'll update you at that time on what we think.
That's a year from now probably.
And everyone at this time I'm showing no additional questions.
I'd like to turn the conference call back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you Jamie and thank you all for participating.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference call.
We do thank you for attending you may now disconnect your telephone lines.
Good morning and welcome to the EQT Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Patrick Kane.
Mr.
Kane please go ahead.
Thanks Dana.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior VP and President of Midstream and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Executive Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a 7-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 today.
The telephone number for the replay is (412) 317-0088.
The confirmation code is 10037707.
The call will also be replayed for 7 days on our website.
To remind you the results of EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM are consolidated in EQT's results.
There was a separate press release issued by EQM this morning and there is a separate conference call today at 11:30 a.m.
which creates a hard stop for this call at 11:25.
If you are interested in the EQM call the dial-in number for that call is (412) 317-6789.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT's operational and financial results for the second quarter 2014.
Then Steve will comment on the findings of our review of our dry Utica acreage and finally Dave will provide an update on our transmission projects and GP cash flow projections and evaluation included in our updated analyst presentation which was posted on our website this morning.
Following Dave's remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will all be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements related to future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today's press release under Risk Factors in EQT's Form 10-K for year ended December 31 2013 filed with the SEC as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are on file at the SEC and are available on our website.
Today's call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning's press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced second quarter 2014 adjusted earnings of $0.58 per diluted share which represents a $0.02 per share increase versus the second quarter of 2013.
The GAAP EPS was $0.73 per share in the quarter and included a $38 million gain on the asset exchange with Range with $31 million of that gain realized at Production and the balance recognized at Midstream.
As Pat reminded you EQT Midstream Partners or EQM's results are consolidated in EQT's results.
The impact of the noncontrolling interest in those results is a little clearer on the income statement than it is on the cash flow statement.
EQM operating cash flow or adjusted EBITDA as it is defined in the EQM press release was $57 million in the quarter and is included in EQT's consolidated cash flow.
However as we have noted in the past not all of that cash flow is available to EQT as noncontrolling unitholders owned approximately 64% of EQM at the end of the second quarter 2014.
Summarizing the quarter from an operational and financial perspective EQT production volumes were 110 Bcf or approximately 17% higher than the second quarter last year but about 4 Bcf below our previous forecast.
The shortfall versus guidance was due to the delay in the installation of a gathering pipeline which postponed 2 multi-well pads from being turned in line and also due to the delay in construction of well lines to another multi-well pad.
In total 22 wells were delayed and all 22 of those wells are currently flowing which explains why we are reiterating our full year guidance of between 465 and 480 Bcf equivalent.
We expect third quarter production volumes of 118 Bcf to 122 Bcf equivalent or a 9% sequential growth rate assuming the midpoint of that range.
Midstream gathered volumes were also up in the quarter about 17% higher than last year.
However the volume growth at both businesses was largely offset by lower commodity prices and absolute costs that were higher than last year consistent with but less than the growth in volumes.
Prices were obviously a big factor in the quarter.
At the consolidated level EQT's average effective sales price of $3.85 per Mcf equivalent was about 10% lower than the $4.29 we realized in the second quarter last year.
The average NYMEX gas price for the quarter was actually considerably higher at $4.67 per MMBtu compared to $4.09 last year.
However from a hedge price perspective a portion of the impact of that higher NYMEX was offset by the fact that some higher price swaps rolled off in 2014.
Also basis was significantly lower at negative $0.78 in the second quarter 2014 compared to basis which was basically flat with NYMEX last year.
However we were able to recover about $0.20 per Mcf equivalent in the second quarter 2014 through transporting some of our gas to higher-priced markets and also through the resale of our unused capacity.
The realized price of $3.85 included an $0.08 non-cash hedge loss on derivatives that were marked-to-market.
The realized price at EQT Production was $2.92 per Mcf equivalent compared to $3.24 last year or also about 10% lower.
EQT Midstream realized $0.93 compared to $1.05 last year as a result of a lower gathering rate lower average gathering rate.
And finally our third-party gathering and transmission costs were $0.54 or about $0.05 per unit lower than the second quarter last year.
A few brief comments on the production results.
EQT production operating income adjusted for the gain on the Range transaction was 8% higher than last year.
As I discussed a minute ago this 17% volume increase was significantly offset by lower commodity prices.
The result was net operating revenue of about $322 million in the quarter which was only 5% higher than the second quarter of 2013 despite the healthy volume growth.
Operating expenses were about 1% higher.
Excluding the $4.8 million legal reserve SG&amp;A production taxes and LOE were all higher as you would expect given the volume growth however DD&amp;A was lower as a result of a depletion rate that is 19% lower than last year primarily as a result of the increase in reserves at year-end 2013.
Moving on to Midstream results in the quarter.
Midstream operating income adjusted again for the gain on the Range transaction was up 13% due to the growth of gathered volumes and increased capacity base transmission revenue.
Net revenue was $152 million up about 16%.
Gathering net revenue increased by 5% as gathering volumes increased by 17% but were somewhat offset by an 11% decrease in the average gathering rate.
That gradual decrease in average gathering rate has been ongoing and is due to the continued increase in the Marcellus gathered volumes in the mix which are relatively less expensive to gather and therefore gets charged at a lower rate.
Midstream transmission net revenues also increased by 33% in the quarter driven by higher capacity reservation charges and throughput.
Third-party transmission revenues were 73% higher than last year and accounted for 1/2 of second quarter transmission revenue.
Storage marketing and other operating revenue was $4.1 million higher in the second quarter as a result of revenue from storage assets that were received as part of a consideration from the utility sale that closed in December.
Operating expenses at Midstream were up 20% quarter-over-quarter however per unit gathering and compression expense was 6% lower driven down by the volume growth.
A couple of comments on funding and liquidity in the second quarter.
As you know we sold our Jupiter gathering system to EQM for $1.2 billion in May of 2014.
There was no EQT income statement impact from that transaction as EQT controls EQM through the general partner ownership and therefore EQM's results are consolidated with EQT.
From a tax perspective however EQT did realize a gain on the transaction and we expect to pay cash taxes of approximately $100 million related to the sale of the Jupiter gathering system.
A quick update on our share repurchase authorization.
We bought back 300 000 shares of EQT stock during the quarter and have 700 000 shares remaining under the current authorization.
And then just a couple of quick notes on the balance sheet.
We closed the quarter with no short-term debt other than the $330 million of short-term debt at EQM that gets consolidated into EQT's balance sheet and a current cash balance at EQT of approximately $1.4 billion.
We also continue to have full availability under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility.
Using the current strip for the remainder of the year our operating cash flow estimate for full year 2014 is approximately $1.5 billion.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Steve Schlotterbeck.
Thank you Phil.
As we discussed at the time of the first quarter call we were revisiting our geologic and engineering analysis of the dry Utica/Point Pleasant potential on our acreage.
As we look at the initial results of the wells drilled so far in the play by other operators our technical teams are very encouraged that the results are basically in line with what our models would predict.
Until now we've been hesitant to drill our own well based solely on those models given the lack of well control.
But we think it is now time to drill a test well on our acreage.
Based on our review we have approximately 400 000 acres that could be prospective for Utica.
There's little disagreement that there is a tremendous amount of gas in place in the play.
The question is whether or not the gas can be profitably produced as each well could cost as much as $15 million.
Based on our work we decided to drill the first test well in Greene County.
The main reasons for this were: one the geology under Greene County looks quite good; and two we have existing pads roads and takeaway pipes in place that could be leveraged if we are successful.
We realize that this well is an experiment and could result in a $15 million dry hole but the upside if successful is tremendous.
We've begun the permitting process and expect to spud the first well before year end.
We'll keep you informed of our progress.
Shifting gears we published an update to our Marcellus analyst slide this morning.
We updated our acreage position to add 20 000 acres that we acquired over the past few quarters.
We also framed the fourth Marcellus development area in the dry window of northern West Virginia.
We have 30 000 net acres in this area.
There are about 300 locations and we have 46 producing wells there.
The EURs are about 15% less than our wet West Virginia acreage but about 25% higher than Central Pennsylvania.
We are drilling 18 wells in the area this year.
We also published an upper Devonian type curve for the first time.
As those of you that have listened in the past we like to wait for data from actual wells before publishing type curves.
We estimate a mid-40% return from our upper Devonian wells.
Finally we increased the average EUR of our Southwest Pennsylvania acreage to reflect better performance from the wells drilled there.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave.
Thanks Steve.
I would like to comment on the status of our pipeline projects and the related topic of our current thoughts on the EQM GP.
Before giving specifics on the status of 3 pipeline projects however I'd like to provide a strategic overview.
With the growth in production volumes in our region we have become quite confident that there will be many attractive Midstream investment opportunities.
In fact I believe there will be more opportunities over time than we can prudently pursue.
Therefore we need to prioritize our selection criteria and also make sure that EQT and EQM are prepared for this sustained growth.
The primary drivers of our prioritization are: the overall attractiveness of the project; its fit with our existing assets; its fit with the objectives of EQT production and other Equitrans customers; its ability to access attractive markets; and the flexibility it affords in accessing multiple markets.
As to specifics at the time of our first quarter call EQT Midstream Partners or EQM had an active open season on a project that connects our Equitrans system to pipes in eastern Ohio the so-called Ohio Valley Connector or OVC.
We announced today that we are moving forward with OVC and that it will be built by EQM as an organic growth project.
This 36-mile pipeline extension will connect our transmission system in northern West Virginia to Clarington Ohio.
There the pipeline will interconnect with both the Rockies Express Pipeline and the Texas Eastern Pipeline.
The current project scope is estimated to cost approximately $300 million and will provide about 1 Bcf per day of capacity.
The estimated in-service date is mid-2016.
EQT has contracted for $650 million cubic feet per day of OVC capacity and EQM has actively engaged with other shippers to firm up contracts for the remaining capacity.
Next I'd like to update you on the Ohio Express project.
As you may recall this project originated through requests from producers seeking to move gas from Clarington to liquidity points further west in Ohio.
Since completing our open season we have re-assessed our priorities and Ohio Express has slipped below other projects.
So it is on the back burner at least for the near future.
And finally the third of the projects the project supplanting that amongst our priorities is the Mountain Valley Pipeline project or MVP which we announced in the second quarter.
MVP is designed to serve the southeast markets by extending our transmission system through West Virginia to Southern Virginia.
This 330-mile pipeline is expected to have a capacity of about 2 Bcf per day and has 2 anchor shippers including EQT Production who have already agreed to a total of 1 Bcf per day of capacity.
The nonbinding open season for MVP ended in mid-July.
We are encouraged by the interest expressed by shippers and are now working toward precedent agreements with those shippers.
We expect MVP to be constructed and owned by a joint venture with NextEra Energy with EQT as operator and largest owner.
Once the project size and scope become clearer we will determine whether the project belongs at EQM or EQT.
The reason MVP has become a higher priority is that we believe the southeast offers one of if not the most attractive market in terms of future natural gas demand growth as well as an attractive price environment.
We think southeast markets can support multiple Bcf per day of new supply to satisfy the expected demand growth and continue to offer strong pricing relative to Appalachian Basin pricing.
We will keep you updated.
Moving to the GP.
As you know our ownership of the EQM general partners entitles us to a growing proportion of the MLP distributions.
Per the incentive distribution rights or IDR schedule the GP receives 50% of incremental quarterly distributions about $0.525 per limited partner unit.
The purpose of IDR is to align the GP interest with the limited partner interest by incenting increases in quarterly distributions.
We will pass this key milestone of $0.525 later this year.
The quarterly LP distribution that will be paid next month is $0.52 per unit and EQM has given guidance that it plans on increasing the distribution by $0.03 per quarter through at least 2016.
GP distributions are determined based on 2 variables: distribution per unit and LP units outstanding.
Therefore forecasting the cash payment to the GP is rather straightforward.
In our updated analyst presentation we laid out a schedule of GP cash flows based on assumptions for these 2 variables.
One is that the $0.03 per unit increase in quarterly distributions continues through 2019.
This appears very achievable given the visibility of distributable cash flow growth at the MLP from organic growth and future accretive drop downs.
The second assumption is that the rate of drops from EQT to EQM is $75 million of EBITDA each year for the next 3 years which EQM finances using a 50-50 debt equity mix.
As EQT still has almost $200 million of Midstream EBITDA and is investing over $350 million in Midstream this year the drop inventory needed to support this assumption is already in service or being built.
If EQM continues to have success there will of course be new products or additional drops.
Along these lines neither OVC nor MVP is explicitly assumed to occur but we did assume a 4% terminal growth rate in distributable cash flow after 2019.
We are planning for more rapid growth post 2019 than that but this assumption is consistent with what we have seen from investment banks so we used it as a benchmark to assess the value of GP cash flows.
As you will see on the slide in the analyst presentation the GP cash flow increases dramatically.
It grows from less than $15 million in 2014 to nearly $200 million in 2019.
The relatively low GP cash flow in 2014 shows why we need to be a bit patient in taking action to realize the GP value.
While our estimate of the present value of the pretax cash flow was nearly $4 billion it seems unlikely that EQT investors would pay the multiple of 2014 cash flow needed to achieve that valuation inside EQT.
We believe that our GP stake is quite valuable and we are on track to decide around year end on the best path to realizing that value for our shareholders.
In summary EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by accelerating the monetization of our reserves and other opportunities.
We continue to be focused on earning the highest possible returns from our investments and are doing what we can to increase the value of your shares.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and we appreciate your continued support.
And with that I will turn the call back to Pat.
Thank you Dave.
That concludes the comments portion of the call.
Dana can we please now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A few questions here.
First maybe if you guys could just follow-on to what you were just saying at the very end there you mentioned and I would agree with you about the material value of the GP you mentioned by year end you would consider or look at some options for monetization.
What are -- can you discuss this maybe in a little bit more detail some things that maybe you or the board or anybody has talked about at this point? I mean certainly there is value there I'm just wondering if any...
Yes I think I'd rather not do that Neal other than -- well first thanks for your question and I'd rather not do that other than just mention that we are looking at what a lot of other folks have done but frankly when I've gone through the list of alternatives in the past it hasn't turned out well.
So I just assume we -- yes you probably remember.
But you just recall that we did -- we've been saying around year end for a little while and we both know that there are we all know on this call probably that a number of different companies have gone down this path before they picked different routes.
And we've taken a look at a lot of that and we've used some experts some investment banks et cetera to try to help us think that through.
But frankly I'd just assume we'll leave it at that if that's okay.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe moving on for Steve.
Steve you mentioned about the 400 000 perspective unit acreage and I was glad to see you guys finally breaking this out.
Your thoughts on this first well in Greene County Steve would you think about doing I guess sort of commingled pads or you would drill Utica and Marcellus on the one or is this just kind of just that step out test well? How do you foresee sort of developing some of these Utica wells with say the Marcellus there? I think Neal first of all we're viewing this first well as a test.
So it's an experimental well.
We see lots of resource potential I mean there's a lot of gas in place.
I think that's pretty clear to everybody.
But there are some challenges.
It will be the deepest well we've drilled.
It will be the deepest Utica well drilled so far I believe.
So I think it's going to be around 13 500 feet deep.
So there are some -- not so much drilling questions but I think on the completion side we have some questions we need to answer and some tests we need to run.
So for now this is an experimental well.
Our view though is if successful and depending on the ultimate economics of the Utica development I think we would develop it on existing pads or in combination with Marcellus drilling.
We don't see a need for separate pads or separate facilities.
It could all be done in conjunction with each other.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Steve can I ask one thing here? Does that depth preclude you from taking the lateral out further than you might otherwise or maybe if you can comment around that? I don't think so.
I don't think we're too worried about the drilling aspects.
Our test well is planned to be about 6 400 feet.
We feel very comfortable with that.
And I think we feel like we'll be able to go longer.
Probably our biggest questions in our mind concern the pressures and the stresses so what's the right propping.
We know we won't be able to use sand so we'll be using most likely ceramic propping.
What strength do we need what sort of pumping pressures are we going to see and pump rates can we get at this depth in those pressures.
So a lot of experimentation to do.
We're kind of sort of in a new frontier here in terms of depth and pressures.
So there's -- we have some questions to answer on this first well.
Our next question is from Scott Hanold from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe if I can follow-up since we're talking about the Utica well right now.
So when you step back and look at I know it's really early today but given what you know on what you think the cost could be I mean what do you think you need to get out of this well to make it economic and then I'll say along with that then you make it competitive with some of the higher return projects you have in your portfolio? I think probably the simplest way to think about it back of the envelope is the wells are going to cost twice as much as a Marcellus well so they're going to have to produce twice as much to be competitive.
They can obviously produce less than that to be economic.
But I think our -- given the large inventory of Marcellus opportunities we have our real goal is to make it competitive with the Marcellus not just meet our cost to capital.
So basically we're looking for double.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And I know you provided a pretty wide range on the cost expectation because obviously it's really -- you haven't drilled the well yet but I mean what would be the ideal cost maybe is it that when you say twice the EUR do you think twice the cost of Marcellus well is also going to be kind of the go forward thought so if you can get your Marcellus wells down to say $6 million $6.5 million these are going always to be in that $12 million $13 million range on the low side? Well I'm not sure it quite works that way.
It's really the well -- it happens to be about double our estimate but it's really based on the specifics.
And because of the depth of the Utica under a lot of the most perspective acreage they're going to be expensive.
And I think that range the range that we're providing is driven more by what strength casing we're going to need and what kind of horsepower and pressure limits on our frac equipment is going to be required.
So those are things that we're going to have to drill a well to find out.
But that's why there's such a big range now.
And I think a lot of the costs go into higher propping higher horsepower.
So it's -- a lot of the extra costs are coming on the stimulation side.
There's a little more cost because of the depth on drilling but it's really driven by increases in our frac-ing needs.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then my follow-up would be then on production.
Obviously this quarter a little bit below expectations because of well timing.
Was there any other kind of constraint in the field just due to a line -- high line pressures that you may all have seen or maybe a mix shift in terms of what you completed in the quarter.
And I guess what I'm getting to is even with the 4 Bcf you guys were within your guidance but it's pretty much been a beaten race story in terms of production historically for you all.
So not to be well above kind of your production range was a bit of surprise.
Yes I mean I think when we provide guidance we're giving you our best estimate and sometimes things go more favorably than we expect and sometimes we have some issues that we didn't expect.
In this quarter as we mentioned we had 22 wells that were delayed for a couple of different reasons mostly around just getting them in line.
But just for reference that's 22 wells from 3 pads on average delayed about 2 weeks.
So because of the large number of wells per pad and the large production per well it doesn't take a long delay to have some fairly significant impact positive and negative.
So if things happen a little faster our numbers can exceed pretty easily.
And if they're a little bit late they can miss.
In the end of the day it's all timing.
I think when you look on a calendar year basis the impacts are pretty minimal.
Our next question is from Phillip Jungwirth with BMO.
I wanted to ask a question on the GP valuation.
If I look at the LP distribution forecast for 2019 it looks like the LP is trading at a 4.8% yield.
And then applying the same yield to the GP cash flow in 2019 basically gets you to the $3.9 billion base case valuation.
But the GP growth rate doubles in the LP.
So my question is do you think an 8% WAC [ph] is really realistic to use for the GP base case valuation? We based that WAC [ph] on information we got from various as Dave mentioned experts investment bankers.
The range is sort of 7% to 9%.
We picked the midpoint and didn't put a lot more thought into that.
We did you give you a table so you could pick a different one if you'd prefer to.
Okay.
And then can you talk about what percentage of midstream EBITDA is still held at EQT Corp versus EQM? Yes.
I don't know if we talked about what percentage is there.
It's a little less than $200 million of EBITDA currently that's still at EQT.
Roughly 40%.
Our next question is from Holly Stewart with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Dave maybe a couple of strategic questions lots of cash on the balance sheet can you just kind of talk about your priorities at this point for use of cash? Really it's just to pursue the strategy that we've had with both the upstream and the midstream.
As I think we've said in the past Holly we've got no desire to let cash burn a hole in our pocket.
I think that it hasn't in the past when we've been in this situation.
I understand we went through a period of years where that wasn't the situation.
But we will not for instance accelerate just because we have cash.
It is -- we're going to make what we think are the decisions that are most likely to create value for shareholders.
It does factor in a little bit in decisions on whether we build midstream projects at EQM or EQT but realistically EQM has had access to capital markets at pretty fair pricing since it's been around.
So that hasn't really factored into it too much.
And we'd also like investors to have a sense that we are in fact able to continue the development programs that are -- represent the optimal development of our resource base for a period of time.
That we're not constantly having to look behind the sofa cushion as it were to find extra loose change.
Research Division</strong> So no thoughts at this point on further accelerating in the Marcellus? Not because of having cash available no.
That would be -- if we look at things with the Marcellus or the Utica or for that matter now I guess you would say the Permian and we think that's the best way to create value then we'd certainly be interested in doing that.
But it isn't -- we try to studiously avoid being affected by the fact that we happen to have a lot of cash on the balance sheet.
I think that's a good way to fritter away value over time and we don't wish to do that.
Research Division</strong> You had a good segue into the Permian maybe just some strategic thoughts there around the deal I know that you increased the well count for 2014.
Actually I'm happy to let Steve comment on the Permian.
I think we've talked about the deal as a whole which was that the Nora was non-core for us and we've known for a long time it was more interesting for Range than it was for us.
But I think we've kind of commented on that and the Permian was at the top of our list when we looked at other basins.
But as far as what we're up to there I'll turn that over to Steve.
Yes Holly.
I think it's the change in well count is really driven by the fact that we expect to have a rig available in the fourth quarter.
And when we think it will be available and get the first well spud.
We think we'll likely be able to spud 3 more wells and that well count includes a well started by Range being finished by us that we're actually starting a frac job today on that well.
So that's well 1 of those and then 2 or 3 more at the end of the year just to keep the rig running.
All Upper Wolfcamp targets in the western part of our acreage position where we feel very comfortable about the economic returns.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate all the detail on the GP value.
Maybe Dave you can kind of give us some thoughts on EQM's appetite at this point for the remainder of the year for more drops? Well we're still working through that.
I don't know that we have anything to announce on further drop timing right now.
I will observe that EQM has had a pretty ready access to the capital markets.
But for us a lot of is making sure that an asset is ready to drop also that we have those arm's length agreements.
I know we've talked about that in the past but we've long had tariffs but you really need to -- with separate entities you need to make sure you have the full agreement in place and that all other legal aspects are better taken care of as well.
So I don't really have any announcements on drops other than we're just going to continue to plug along.
Research Division</strong> And then my last one would be maybe for Randy.
There's some good detail in the slide presentation on sort of your end market mix and how that shifts in '15.
If you could just maybe give us some color on some of those changes it looks like your M2 exposure goes down in Midwest and NYMEX goes up? That's right Holly.
I mean in November our team 14 [ph] capacity comes into service which provides us additional access to the Gulf Coast as well as to northeast markets.
And certainly some of the capacity that we're looking for to go to Midwest that will kick in as well with the OVC into the future.
So we feel pretty good around our portfolio right now.
Our next question is from Amir Arif from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
For the 400 000-acre Utica position how much of that is in roughly in Greene County and West Virginia? I believe roughly 50 000 acres in Greene County plus or minus a little bit.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And then the West Virginia side? I don't have that number specifically handy but it's 150 000 or so.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are all the Utica rights held by the Marcellus production? Actually most of them are held by shallow production or Marcellus but they're nearly 100% held by production.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the new dry gas area that you've put out there the 30 000 acres is that newly acquired acreage or is that acreage you had previously and you just sort of defined as Marcellus now? It's a bit of a mix.
We did acquire some acreage in that area recently.
But I think the bulk of it was existing acreage.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on the basis for the second half the $1 to $1.10 could you give some granularity on what you expect in 3Q versus 4Q for that? I don't think have the details on that but all we did for that guidance was to just take the published strip for the local basis and average it for the 6 months.
So we're not really trying to make a prediction that's different than the strip.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> But Pat generally it's wider in 3Q and then narrows in 4Q.
Is that fair? Yes.
Our next question is from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on gas differentials.
So what are you seeing so far this quarter on gas differentials and what's your expectation for the rest of the year? And I do see the market mix slide so I'm assuming that you're expecting differentials to improve in 2015? Joe we gave a specific forecast on what we think were differentials for the second half of the year.
So from a local basis perspective between minus $1 and minus $1.10 but we think because we have capacity and are able to get to some higher-priced markets we were able to recover $0.60 to $0.65 to kind of a net $0.50 negative.
Research Division</strong> And am I correct that next year you're expecting the differentials assuming say $4 flat gas to be better than 2014? We're not really making predictions other than what the strip is.
So it's hard to predict.
Yes.
All you're really getting from us is a reflection of what the market shows we're guessing...
Research Division</strong> And then on the GP monetization options.
So is it possible that because of the ramp in cash flow that one of the options is actually to wait till some point later when you get a better valuation? We're still working through that process.
We had early on recognized that one of the things that we need to do as part of this process is provide a bit more transparency on GP cash flows to investors and that's the only reason that we put this out when we did.
We just -- this is still consistent with our thought process of trying to get to some type of an idea of what we think makes sense by the end of the year.
So I really don't have a view on timing beyond -- since we're really just kind of I guess you'd say almost like halfway into that process or a little more than halfway I guess.
Research Division</strong> And then any comments on service cost? Are you seeing service cost pressures and any specifics around that? No.
Service cost has been holding fairly steady over the last quarter.
And I think our view is we expect that to continue at least through the next quarter hopefully longer.
I don't expect certainly any reductions but we're not really feeling a lot upward pressure at the moment either.
I would like to while I have the microphone clarify my previous comment.
We have 65 000 acres in Greene County with Utica rights.
Our next question is from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the Permian did I hear correctly you said all of the wells in the 2014 program are Upper Wolfcamp.
Is that right? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And can you remind us how thick the Wolfcamp is there? I'll be honest I don't recall off the top of my head.
Research Division</strong> So thinking ahead to next year what's the goal of the '15 program? Are you trying to delineate the whole acreage position are you more trying to hone well design? Can you just provide some color there? We haven't set out a '15 plan yet.
But I think generically speaking it won't be to delineate the entire position.
I think our strategy will be to -- the bulk of the investment will be focused on the Upper Wolfcamp in the areas where we feel pretty confident about the economics.
With some test wells sprinkled in perhaps in the Lower Wolfcamp or the Cline.
And also with a couple sort of testing the eastern limits sort of to find out where that economic threshold is going to be on the acreage.
But I think the bulk of the investment will be focused on areas we think we can get good returns with some delineation tests sprinkled in.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Ohio Utica have you completed any of those wells that were waiting on completion? We have frac-ed the wells and they will be flowing them back shortly.
As we said previously we don't intend to provide updates specific flow information on those wells but they are on the previous schedule that we talked about.
Our next question is from Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> All of mine have been answered at this point.
But just diving into that recovery line item a little bit more and the guidance around that the $0.60 to $0.65 positive recovery how should we think about that kind of going forward? How much of that during the quarter was actually from better pricing versus selling capacity and how much of those prices are on a fixed basis versus floating? It's a combination -- it's different every period Michael.
So it's really tough to give you specifics.
But the intent was that separating the recovery from the expense of transmission which is what we did in this quarter's presentation should allow you to take the -- it would give you the sales points where we're selling our gas.
So you should be able to use the weighted -- the weighting of the volumes at those points and the pricing at those points to better approximate the net of the local bases and the higher prices at the other sale points.
And that would give you -- and that would be reflected in the recovery line would be the higher price portion of it and the basis is basically the first delivery point for our gas.
And generally speaking it's -- we're going to have more opportunities when there's a lot of demand in some of those other areas.
So for instance cold weather will help just as it did in the first quarter.
And milder winters would mean that there wasn't as much opportunity some but not as much.
LLC</strong> The other question I had as it relates to -- your view if you have one on seasonality in the Northeast markets and how you see that playing out as we move into '15 and beyond given the increased volumes and the supply dynamics in the Northeast.
Do you think points like M3 still exhibit a lot of seasonality going forward or does that get materially muted given the supply situation? Michael I mean obviously as David said there's a lot contingent on the weather and the conditions and the power generation load and in the winter certainly there's certain aspects of seasonality as we saw this in our first quarter results in the winter.
So there's significant -- our team and the portfolio approach that we take attempts to maximize our sales priceline by optimizing the portfolio.
So I think with regard to M3 we're seeing some significant price advantages this past winter and depending on the conditions we may very well see a similar result.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to beat on this but in terms of those contracts.
Are all those floating on a price basis or are there material amounts that are fixed price contracts as it relates to the firm transportation you guys have outlined? Yes as I said we take a portfolio approach so it changes.
But we do have some fixed but we also have others that are out of floating.
So that -- overall we intend to manage our price through a mix of each.
I don't have the specific percentages.
LLC</strong> And then I guess on the Midstream side of things EQT Midstream can you just review the growth outlook kind of as you see it for '15 and beyond on EQT Midstream at the EQT level? Basically we've been pretty much 20% growth of EBITDA for the last several years.
And we haven't given a forecast for volumes for next year but certainly seem to be on track with that to continue.
LLC</strong> That's a 20% growth relative to the growth EBITDA stream rate? Yes you have to kind of look at consolidated because of the dynamics of the drops.
So if you look at the consolidated Midstream EBITDA it's a pretty steady growth trajectory.
Obviously whenever you're taking dropping $100 million or so from one entity to the other midyear it's going to make the sub-comparison choppy.
But if you look at the consolidated growth it's pretty predictable.
So basically it is tracking the production growth.
I mean we're obviously been having more and more that's third-party but generally speaking we've been trying to organize it so that the projects that support nonaffiliated producers are at the EQM level.
So at the EQT level generally speaking you're going to wind up seeing results growth results that track EQT's production growth.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So that 20% kind of growth rates for the gross EBITDA stream is still reasonable? It could be.
LLC</strong> And then just I was looking for a little more color on the increase in the EUR on the southwest VA assets just any additional color there? Not really just a normal update based on results seen to date.
So it wasn't a big change but it was enough that we thought we'd communicate it to you.
But really nothing more than that.
Due to the hard stop necessary for your next call this concludes our question-and-answer session today.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Kane for any closing remarks.
Mr.
Kane? Thank you Dana and thank you all for participating.
And he disconnected.
Good morning and welcome to the EQT Corp.
Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Patrick Kane Chief IRO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Maureen.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior VP and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior VP and President of Midstream and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Executive VP and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a 7-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 p.m.
today.
The telephone number for the replay is (412) 317-0088.
The confirmation code is 10037715.
The call will also be replayed for 7 days on our website.
To remind you the results of EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM are consolidated in EQT's results.
There is a separate press release issued by EQM this morning and there is a separate conference call at 11:30 a.m.
today which creates a hard stop for this call at 11:25.
If you're interested in the EQM call the dial-in number is (412) 317-6789.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT's operational and financial results for the third quarter then Dave will provide a summary of our annual strategy review with our board and revised GP cash flow projections and valuation included in our updated analyst presentation which was posted on our website this morning.
Finally Steve will discuss our preliminary thoughts for 2015 production plans.
Following their prepared remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will all be available to answer your questions.
But first I'd like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements relating to future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today's press release under Risk Factors and in EQT's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 filed with the SEC as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are also on file at the SEC and available on our website.
Today's call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning's press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced third quarter 2014 adjusted earnings attributable to EQT of $0.51 per diluted share or 7% lower than last year's third quarter.
It should be noted that this quarter's effective tax rate was 33% significantly higher than the 25% effective tax rate in the third quarter last year.
The effective tax rate in the third quarter 2013 was favorably impacted by some onetime transaction adjustments.
So normalizing for tax rates adjusted EPS would actually have been about 6% higher year-over-year.
Adjusted operating cash flow attributable to EQT was $291.3 million in the quarter or 5% higher than the third quarter of '13.
Our operational performance was strong again this quarter with 25% production volume growth and 24% higher gathering volume growth while net operating expenses increased by only 8% resulting in a cost reduction in per-unit operating costs.
EQT Midstream Partner results as you know are consolidated in EQT's results.
EQT recorded $33.7 million of net income attributable to the noncontrolling unitholders of EQM in the quarter which was up significantly year-over-year due primarily to the sale of the Jupiter gathering system to EQM in May 2014 and the associated equity offering at EQM which caused EQT's ownership of EQM to decrease to a little over 36% down from almost 45% as of September 30 2013.
EQT raised almost $1.2 billion from the sale of Jupiter which will ultimately be reinvested in high-return projects but this transaction does have the effect of reducing both the EPS and cash flow growth attributable to EQT in the short term.
You may have noticed in this morning's release that we included tables for adjusted earnings adjusted EPS and adjusted operating cash flow all excluding amounts attributable to the noncontrolling unitholders.
As the noncontrolling portion continues to grow we believe this approach is more informative to investors.
The other significant negative impact to earnings and cash flow was a lower realized price compared to last year.
At the consolidated level EQT received $3.88 per Mcf equivalent compared to $4.12 last year.
The average NYMEX gas price for the quarter was actually higher at $4.06 per Mcf compared to $3.58 last year but basis was a negative $1.38 in the quarter 2014 compared to a negative $0.28 last year.
Our third-party gathering and transmission costs were $0.45 per unit or $0.07 lower than the third quarter last year and we were able to recover $0.70 per unit in the third quarter 2014 primarily by transporting some of our gas to higher-priced markets and reselling our unused capacity via termed sales.
That $0.70 per unit in recoveries this quarter compares to recoveries of $0.40 per unit in the third quarter of 2013.
The realized price of $3.88 includes a $0.26 per unit noncash hedge gain for hedge ineffectiveness and for derivatives that were mark-to-market in the quarter.
The realized price at EQT Production was $2.94 per Mcf equivalent compared to $3.07 last year or a 4% decrease.
EQT Midstream realized $0.94 compared to $1.05 last year as a result of lower average gathering rate.
The operational results were again pretty straightforward in the third quarter so I'll move right into the segment results.
Now starting with EQT Production.
As I mentioned previously the sales volume growth rate in the recently completed quarter was 25% over the third quarter of 2013.
That growth rate continues to be driven by sales from our Marcellus and Upper Devonian plays which contributed approximately 79% of the volumes in the quarter.
Operating income at Production was $105.7 million excluding a noncash $34.3 million gain associated with the reduced hedge ineffectiveness in the third quarter of '14 or 12% higher than last year excluding a comparable $3.4 million gain in the quarter last year.
As discussed already realized gas prices at Production were lower in the quarter.
In total operating revenues at EQT Production net of the ineffectiveness gain were $328.8 million or 9% higher than the third quarter of '13.
On the expense side total operating expenses were higher as you would expect given the company's growth and totaled $223 point million (sic) [ $223.1 million ] or an 8% increase.
Moving on to the midstream results in the third quarter.
Operating income here was up 19%.
The increase is consistent with growth of gathered volumes and increase in fixed capacity-based transmission charges.
Net gathering revenues increased 12% to $102.4 million in the third quarter '14 primarily due to a 24% increase in gathered volumes.
The average gathering rate paid by EQT Production continues to decline as Marcellus production continues to grow as a percentage of our total production mix.
Specifically the average revenue deduction from EQT Production to EQT Midstream for gathering in the quarter of $0.74 per Mcf equivalent was $0.08 per unit lower than last year.
Net transmission revenues for the third quarter 2014 increased by $15.8 million or 40% driven by fixed capacity charges and higher volumes associated with Equitrans expansion projects.
Operating expenses at Midstream for the third quarter of '14 of $72.9 million were about $11.5 million higher than last year consistent with our growth and increasing activity level at Midstream.
Just a quick note on guidance.
We are estimating our operating cash flow for 2014 to be approximately $1.4 billion excluding operating cash flow attributable to the noncontrolling EQM unitholders.
We closed the quarter with no outstanding balance on EQT's $1.5 billion credit facility and over $1.35 billion of cash on our balance sheet excluding the cash on hand at EQM.
So we remain in a great position from both a liquidity and a balance sheet standpoint for the rest of the year and as we prepare for 2015.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Dave Porges.
Thank you Phil.
Last week we completed our annual strategic review with our Board of Directors.
As is our norm during the third quarter call I will use most of my time reviewing the main points of that discussion.
As you probably imagine there are not a lot of material changes to our strategy.
We continue to drive shareholder value by economically developing our vast resource base and investing in the ever-growing Midstream opportunity in our focus areas of Southwestern Pennsylvania and Northern West Virginia.
There has been some evolution in the execution of our strategy that is worth discussing.
One overarching theme is the continued emphasis on reducing unit cost unit operating cost cost of capital et cetera in all aspects of our business.
I'd like to focus on one aspect of this today optimal pace of development.
First we continue to believe that it is most economical to develop our core Marcellus and Upper Devonian acreage as fast as is practicable.
But there are many factors that help determine that optimal pace and these factors and constraints have shifted over the past 7 years or so since this play's early days.
Through about 2010 the primary constraint for EQT was the availability of low-cost capital.
We removed that constraint by redeploying proceeds from various monetizations to allow us to invest an excess of operating cash flow.
In 2011 we sold 2 midstream assets.
In 2012 we created an MLP EQT Midstream Partners to allow the continued sale of assets without surrendering effective control of those assets.
We still have about $2 billion of midstream assets at EQT which will be dropped to the MLP over the next 2 years assuming EQM's continued economic access to capital markets.
While a strong balance sheet may not be a differentiating attribute during times of capital availability it can be very valuable when capital is scarcer.
We're seeing some signs of that amongst our peer group and therefore want to ensure that we maintain a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity.
This influences our thinking regarding the timing of drops amongst other things.
Hence our decisions to accelerate drops and also to shift more midstream CapEx to EQM.
Once we resolve the capital access constraint by monetizing assets the constraint on optimal growth was set by the pace of clearing enough land for long lateral multi-well pads as we felt that was the most economic way to develop this asset.
This year has been pivotable -- pivotal in resolving this constraint as we now clear pads well ahead of our drilling pace even though our emphasis on multi-well pads and long lateral stresses even the best of land groups.
This success primarily as a result of fast-tracking acquisition of mineral rights adjacent to existing development areas revision of drilling permits pertaining to pads under development and other measures has come earlier than we expected.
As a result we decided to start increasing our standard lateral length earlier this year as part of ongoing efforts to further improve economic returns.
To give you an example.
One pad cleared for 2015 drilling has 11 Marcellus wells averaging 5 700 feet plus 8 Upper Devonian wells averaging 6 600 feet.
That equates to over 115 000 pay -- of feet of pay and 770 stages on 1 pad.
Now this approach does result in longer lead times between spudding a well and turning it in-line as it takes longer to both drill and complete wells with longer laterals.
And that is what caused the modest reduction in the midpoint of our 2014 volume forecast.
However from our perspective the more important point is that this move to longer laterals results in a 6% reduction in cost per foot of pay and is consistent with that clear strategic driver to further reduce overall unit cost structure.
So having resolved the capital and land constraints the current constraint to optimal development pace is takeaway capacity.
We have seen this coming and have planned our midstream construction and firm capacity commitments to accommodate mid-20% per annum growth for the next several years.
Given that there is limited incremental takeaway capacity in the near term our development plans over that time will be calibrated to allow us to fill the takeaway capacity meaning that efficiencies that allow us to achieve the mid-20% per annum growth more economically such as multi-well pads in long laterals likely will result in achieving volume targets with fewer wells.
Of course we keep adding to future takeaway capacity with projects like our Ohio Valley Connector or OVC; and Mountain Valley Pipeline or MVP which are staged to provide takeaway capacity that facilitates such growth for many years.
Continuing on that theme our midstream growth -- our midstream group has an ever-growing opportunity to provide gathering and transmission services in the Marcellus and Utica.
Strategically we think more and more of the midstream growth projects should be funded at EQM instead of being built at EQT and dropped.
Funding organic growth projects in that manner was probably always in EQM's best interest but EQM was too small to wear this investment in construction projects.
And frankly EQT was able to profit from selling completed projects to EQM once they were built and contracted.
With EQM's growth and high coverage ratio it can afford to warehouse larger projects.
From EQT's perspective now that the general partner or GP is receiving 50% of incremental cash flows we create more EQT value by avoiding capital at the EQT level and benefiting from the GP than we do from expending that capital at the EQT level and recovering it in drop proceeds.
Also consistent with EQT's desire to maintain a strong balance sheet and liquidity we would rather not warehouse such large midstream projects at EQT.
An example of this thinking was mentioned in the press release this morning that EQM is assuming EQT's interest in MVP.
MVP will require a lot of capital in the coming years but EQM now has the size to finance this project without compromising their distribution growth.
This makes the project more economical for EQM unitholders while EQT shareholders will benefit by an increase in GP value as a result of the higher number of shares outstanding and continued visibility in distribution growth.
As an example of this latter point we updated our GP value estimate to account for both OVC and MVP.
As Pat mentioned that new slide is in the updated presentation on our website.
The previous estimate for GP value as you will recall was $3.9 billion.
Adding MVP adds over $0.5 billion in GP value and adding OVC adds over $100 million in value.
So with these 2 projects as the only changes to that prior estimate the updated estimate is $4.6 billion.
This same dynamic exists when examining the impact on GP value of other possible investments by EQM.
Now does EQT stock price reflect this GP value? It is impossible to be certain but we think it is highly unlikely that it does.
This fact along with the growing GP value estimates reinforces our view that we must do something else to highlight that value.
All year we have been saying that we are targeting sometime around year-end to make a final decision about what that is so that we can execute against that decision next year.
We are still on that schedule.
We will let you know as soon as we decide but given that we are getting close to that decision we think it best not to discuss the options in too much detail on today's call.
And I'm now going to turn it over to Steve to provide more color regarding our preliminary thinking about next year's development program.
Thank you Dave.
Building a bit on Dave's remarks we're in the early stages in preparing our 2015 capital budget.
Given the progress of our land group we are entering 2015 in great shape from a cleared location perspective.
As Dave mentioned we're -- we've been successful at lengthening our average lateral length.
For 2014 we expect our average Marcellus lateral length to be 5 820 feet versus an average lateral length of just over 5 000 feet in 2013.
We expect to continue to be able to drill longer laterals in 2015.
In addition to lengthening our laterals we're also drilling more wells per pad.
In length -- in 2013 we averaged 7.6 wells per pad and this year we expect to average 11 wells per pad.
All of this will translate into a slower increase in Marcellus/Upper Devonian well count in 2015 compared to previous years while still achieving our growth targets as we are more focused on feet of pay drilled not well count.
We plan to budget a few more dry Utica wells for 2015 to further derisk the play on our acreage as pure results continue to look strong.
Keep in mind that if we are successful the Utica wells will not increase our total production sales volumes for a few years.
I've been asked what the impact of our development plans would be should the Utica be profitable.
It's way too early to know for sure.
But if the wells are more economic than the Marcellus wells we would shift capital from Marcellus to Utica as we are committed to drilling the most economic wells.
With that we'll open the call to questions.
Thank you Steve.
Maureen could you please open the call for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Neal Dingmann from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Say maybe a question for -- a general question first for Phil or Dave.
Just wondered obviously your liquidity position certainly is great out there right now.
So wanted your thoughts I guess for you or even for Steve on just acquisitions either for acreage or companies in general given that solid liquidity position you have.
We are not letting money burn a hole on our pocket.
I know I say that in every call when we get asked but that's -- to me that has -- the liquidity has no impact on whether an investment in acreage say would be attractive or not.
I don't think it -- it doesn't take a financial guru to notice that the financial markets don't exactly embrace some of those acquisitions -- at least not for the acquirer.
And I think that has been true over many years.
Our mindset has not changed.
We are not impacted by that and I'll just -- I would just as soon leave it at that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Does that include -- just I guess I'm trying to think about how much acreage.
Are you just still filling in acreage? Or do you see yourselves -- do you feel like you have enough acreage now enough drilling locations that -- does that include acreage as well I guess? I'll let Steve answer that.
Well Neal I think we're always interested in acreage that fills in the holes in our core areas.
So acreage that becomes available that fills those holes is interesting.
And probably more specifically acquisitions where we have a competitive advantage in the bidding are the most attractive.
So that typically happens when we have a lot of acreage that's immediately adjacent to the available acreage.
So we continue to look for those opportunities but they're not particularly common.
So we'll go after them when they reveal themselves.
But in the meantime we'll just fill in holes as we can.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and 2 more.
One obviously you continue to have huge dropdown opportunities.
Do things -- I guess when you think about how quick in the schedule of the drop-downs do things just have to get sort of to critical mass before you decide to drop down? Or how do you all decide on sort of timing of these dropdowns sort of going through next year? We always are preparing for the next drop and there's work that has to be done getting the contracts in place getting the accounting right et cetera.
Our bias has been to do at least one drop a year.
So we're always sort setting a goal to have one ready within a year of the last one or even sooner if we can.
So I guess the answer is we're always trying to get ready to do the next one because we think that's the right place for those cash flows to exist and get value at the lower cost of capital.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe Dave for you -- Dave.
Thanks Phil.
Just wondered you made a comment about limited takeaway capacity just in the near term so doing more multi-pads and such.
Is that -- can you just maybe discuss that a bit more? I mean how much more -- to me when I look at that capacity it doesn't seem limited very long.
Maybe if you can maybe comment about that how that's going to grow.
No but that's all it -- it's just not a very good use of capital to be even a few months ahead of takeaway capacity.
That's all Neal.
And then you...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very very good.
Right.
You don't -- you just don't want to be spending that money if you don't have to.
And a lot of times you wind up with drilling rigs and frac crews that are on longer-term contracts.
We think it's one of the most economic things that we've done is to make sure we have a lot of that stuff under long-term contract.
And you want to make sure that you're carefully planning that so that you're not getting the one too far out in front of the other.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question just on differentials.
I know just looking at your slides such as on the Jupiter you have a lot of firm gathering and compression agreements coming up.
Your thoughts about I know you highlighted or estimated what you thought different diffs would be for this quarter.
Would you add any more hedges here? Would you add more FTE here? Just your thoughts given what's going on with basis differentials in your region.
Yes.
I'm not sure if I got a great answer.
Randy you may have a comment on it.
We're always looking at the hedge portfolio I'll tell you that.
And we're always looking for a better -- broadly a sales portfolio that exposes us to higher-priced markets in the most economic manner.
But if you're -- you're looking for nearer-term assessments? Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Dave would you lock in more firm transportation today or at the prices that FTE cost not necessarily? I guess that's kind of where I was going with that.
It all depends on the market.
I mean we think a big advantage that we have in having a commercial group as well as a midstream group as well as Production is that we can develop our own view of what it costs to move from point A to point B say with a pipe.
And that we can develop our own view of what we think the market is going to be what the difference is going to be between point A and point B.
And if you think it's more economical to take out capacity then you'd be open to doing that.
I certainly think that we're in a good situation now.
Of course we've got a variety of -- we've got even more capacity coming on in the fourth quarter as it is.
But I don't know that we'd be looking to take on any more than what we've been planning to take on at this point.
One -- the big -- a big variable and I know Steve has alluded to this in the past is what does happen with the Utica? And that could change some thinking.
But the way we -- I think we're reasonably comfortable with where we are right now.
Our next question is Drew Venker Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could provide some color on the assumptions on that dropdown figure you provided.
Basically it's -- we have -- in round numbers 2 assets [ph] still owned by EQT.
And assuming 10x multiple which is kind of a little bit less than what we've dropped recently that's about $2 billion.
So that's the only 2 assumptions there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Pat.
And just wanted to clarify what you're trying to say in terms of shifting capital to EQM for the midstream side.
Is it kind of implying you would be spending more on the E&amp;P side next year and in the next few years? No that actually -- all that meant to -- that was not meant to imply that we're spending more on E&amp;P next year.
That's just meant to imply that the best with -- especially with us moving up to the 50% splits for the GP that when we've run through the numbers we think the most economical thing for EQT and for that matter for EQM is to have more of those projects built at EQM.
It's purely a cost of capital decision.
It's not a capital availability issue.
It's that -- back in the earliest days we were able to spend X on a project at EQT and then drop it for maybe 2x X because EQM was at such a size that they really couldn't wear in construction projects or projects that haven't been contracted out.
So they will -- EQT basically derisked that.
And the GP wasn't taking away that much from the LP.
Now that we're into the 50% splits it means that the price that EQM can afford to pay is probably a little bit lower but EQT makes up a lot of value on the GP so it's really -- it winds up being win-win to have more of those projects be built at EQM.
I do think you should assume that as you look out I don't want to pick the number of years but 2 3 years into the future you'll basically see all of the midstream CapEx for the consolidated group being spent at the EQM level.
I mean I guess you never want to say never to new projects.
But directionally our view will be because of those factors I mentioned.
Again it's the size of EQM that allows them to do it and the fact that EQT is actually picking up more value from the GP than it does from build and drop you should see that capital -- those projects moving towards EQM as opposed to EQT.
Does that -- I'll take another shot if that wasn't clear enough.
Research Division</strong> No that helps Dave.
I just -- I think maybe just to follow up does it -- so does your development plan for 2015 largely depend on logistics and planning and I guess all the things you normally take into account? Yes yes that's exactly right.
Research Division</strong> Versus running as hard as you can? That's exactly right.
Incidentally one thing we'll probably -- we can -- we'll ponder doing is if the understanding on the thought process behind the CapEx being spent at EQM versus EQT -- we've actually done internally a fair amount of analysis on that.
We'll see if we can't figure out a way to capture that in a way that -- such that we can communicate it numerically to investors.
But it is not a capital availability issue.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Dave.
Assuming you could provide some clarity or some more color on how much of those third-party recoveries are attributable to selling unused capacity versus just moving gas around to higher-price markets? Like kind of how we should try to forecast that in the future because it's more...
I think for forecast so there's 3 things 3 main things in that recovery line.
One is we do have firm capacity to get to higher-priced markets.
So that's a big part of it.
We also have some of that capacity that we're not using for our own volumes that we resell.
That's the second part.
And thirdly in the -- say the typical 12 months or shorter we do have fixed -- firm sales where we set the basis at the time of the sale.
So on those contracts if basis widens after we enter the contracts the recovery goes with it because the basis has been set.
So that's what's in that line item.
Just given that that -- those tend to be shorter-term the best way to model recovery going forward is if you look at our sales points which we have in our analyst presentation on Slide 44 and do a weighted average of the pricing that you get compared to the local price that should approximate your recovery line.
Our next question is Christine Cho from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Would you be able to break down the 2 Bcf a day on MVP between producers and end users? No Christine we're not providing the breakdown of customers at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then do you have any insight in what the shippers are planning to do with the gas once it gets to Transco? Just because my understanding is that I thought Transco was full so have most of them signed up for capacity on Transco? Or is there some sort of dynamic going on with capacity releases and such that doesn't make it necessary to sign up for FTE on that pipe? Sure Christine.
I think that MVP does provide a lot of supply diversity to Station 65 and currently supplied by Transco as you mentioned.
Certainly that the -- generally speaking our experience has been that when you're creating a new interconnect to existing interstate lines with a market needs -- and with any market it needs to create capacity such as when they had Cascade Creek TETCO's TEMAX expansion and such.
So basically the market that is in need of that gas has the existing capacity on Transco.
They'll purchase the gas at 165 or a Zone 5 pool and transport the gas on the capacity that it owns.
So it's important to remember okay that the pipeline which is an open-access pipeline doesn't control what happens to the gas that's shipped on 165 as the shippers on that pipeline own the capacity.
So essentially the shippers will -- that significant amount of gas crosses that meter and takes away at 165.
So those shippers that already exist and have capacity on Transco will be able to access that liquidity and that supply.
So those shippers that have capacity will be able to move it at that point.
Research Division</strong> But I guess if you're adding 2 Bcf a day to that interconnect I mean what was the capacity at Station 65 before that? I would just think that it's like it would overwhelm a little bit.
Would it not? No not in our judgment.
I think that significantly right now Transco Zone 5 [ph] Currently imports about 4 Bcf of gas per day with the majority that's flowing from the Gulf Coast.
And with over 3 Bcf a day that's consumed at Zone 5 Station 165 that's significant volume flowing through the meter.
So it has -- so MVP will have shippers who have access to this liquidity and they can sell them to the existing shippers -- or new markets which will be developed over the 4 years that will develop their coal retirements in the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic regions and such.
So essentially our experience in the development of the Marcellus similarly such as the taps that have gone into Tennessee at Mawa and Algonquin the Texas eastern taps and such.
So you've got a market in need of a supply and this will provide a reliable source of supply to a growing Southeast market.
So we're -- the market has really validated that assumption with the shippers signing and I think that's -- certainly there'll be significant liquidity ahead for shippers on MVP.
Research Division</strong> Oh great.
Okay.
And then I know in the press release you guys talk about the size of the pipe diameter and total capacity is yet to be determined.
But kind of on that GP slide it implies that the pipe is going to cost $1.9 billion.
Is that a good number to start with for us? Yes but you're looking at the EQT share just so you know.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes yes I know.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> That's a good number? That's not a bad assumption.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you're talking about in 2 years you would like all of the midstream CapEx to take place at EQM.
I know that the big pipeline projects that you've been contemplating it's taking place at EQM.
But they're still gathering that's taking -- gathering construction that's taking place at EQT and I think the rough rule of thumb in the past has been 20% of E&amp;P CapEx.
Is that -- like when should we think that that starts to transition over? It's -- I would think you should -- you should look at that as beginning to transition over.
Research Division</strong> Right now? And I didn't mean to make it so specific as suggesting that in 2 years there won't be any [indiscernible] At EQT.
But I'd say you should assume that that transitioning is beginning and that yes we are talk about that capital also not just the big projects like the OVCs and the MVPs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your peers in the Marcellus that do infrastructure up there a lot of those guys also -- a lot of them do processing as well.
So do you think that takes away from your third-party gathering opportunities? If they can go to someone else to do gathering and processing whereas with you they can only do gathering.
Can you kind of and talk about that? Randy might have a view.
I actually don't think so because at least the main processor we deal with here often has said they would prefer not to have to do as much gathering.
And I think Christine from a customer perspective I think an example of that is the Mobley processing facility that MarkWest has placed on the Equitrans system.
So really providing producers a complete solution to get their gas processed and having a residue solution moving the dry gas which we have been very successful in doing I think the combination of those 2 makes us very competitive in the marketplace.
And it's only -- we're more than happy to work in conjunction with other midstream companies just as we're more than happy to work in conjunction with other producers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me.
Can you break down the NGL volumes between Marcellus and Permian? I will turn it to Pat.
No with -- I don't have that with me Christine.
If you would just follow up we'll try to get that.
Our next question is from Holly Stewart Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just digging into Christine's question a little bit more on the gathering CapEx at the EQT level I think we've backed into call it $240 million or so in 2014 so -- that's excluding transmissions.
So just I guess bigger picture assuming that that starts to decline pretty significantly in 2015 and beyond? It starts to decline in 2015.
We haven't set the budget yet.
And frankly one of the things we have to figure out for '15 is to the extent that the projects have been committed to already it may wind up being more problematical to transfer it at that -- in the middle of the project right? There tends to be -- even on the gathering there's a lead of at least several months in putting it in place.
So I'm not at this point ready to put a number out for 2015.
I was providing much more of a kind of strategic overview on that.
Research Division</strong> Strategic big picture okay.
But you should assume that number that you're talking about starts trending towards 0.
Research Division</strong> Yes got it.
And then maybe just Steve as you mentioned kind of thoughts around 2015 anything that we should think about as a shift in the development plan whether it's within your different areas? No I think we haven't finalized our plan yet.
So we don't even have specifics internally.
But I think you'll see a continued focus on our core areas of the Marcellus will attract the bulk of our investment capital next year.
There'll be no change.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay great.
And then -- I mean and Pat maybe you talked about this a little bit just in terms of this third-party gathering and transmission recovery line.
I mean it looks like you blew away your 3Q guidance for that.
And your 4Q guidance is a lot better than even what you've realized in the first quarter.
I assume it's very seasonal with 1Q and 4Q.
So can you just kind of help us better understand how you're getting to those numbers? Yes it's -- I think the blowing away the guidance if you look at the basis realized in the third quarter compared to where it was when we gave the guidance it was wider.
And the biggest chunk of the improvement in the recoveries had to do with these fixed sales that we had the -- basically the recovery moved up penny for penny with the basis.
And you're right it is seasonal.
So fourth quarter the big improvement there is that we do expect winter again and that will help.
So a big part of that then is just not being as exposed to the basis as possibly I guess our earlier ways of presenting it might have made it seem.
Our next question is Joe Allman JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just one question on the longer laterals.
Could you quantify what happens to the longevity of the drilling inventory as you move over to drilling more longer laterals? Well I think it probably is unchanged given the fact that we're going to drill -- we have a set amount of capital.
So we'll drill less wells but the same number of lateral feeds so develop the same amount of acreage in either case.
So there's a capital efficiency improvement but I think it doesn't really impact our -- the length of our inventory.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So how many longer laterals could you do? So for example if you -- if any given area you had say a 10-year inventory of drilling do you think you could drill longer laterals in pretty much all your acreage? Or is it going to -- is it on 1/2 your acreage or 1/4 of your acreage? Then if you had a 10-year inventory of drilling I'm assuming that inventory goes down to say 7 years just because you have fewer wells but they're longer wells.
No the -- I think you -- the way to think about it is how much acreage are we developing? And that's driven by the factors that Dave mentioned.
Used to be driven by capital and land.
Now for the next couple of years by capacity.
So we will drill -- we'll develop the same amount of acreage.
We'll just do it with less wells because they're longer laterals.
But inventory is really about acreage not well count.
So I guess if you want to just think about it as well count which is not how we think about it the well count will go down but the available acreage and the growth opportunity is unchanged.
It's just more capital-efficient.
Research Division</strong> And how widely could you drill the longer laterals? On -- what percentage of your wells could be longer laterals? Well that's hard to answer.
One longer than what? But it's very acreage-dependent and it's very dependent on our ability to add acreage adjacent to our current acreage to swap with our competitors to build blockier positions.
So there's numerous factors that go into that.
I would say we expect to be able to continue to drill laterals as long as we're drilling now on average for the next few years.
And we hope to be able to lengthen them further but we think we can replicate what we're doing now for a while.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on takeaway when you compare yourselves to other operators in the Marcellus and the Upper Devonian what advantages do you think EQT has versus others in terms of takeaway and price realizations? Well I'll -- yes I'll just go back.
I'll give my 2 cents on it and if Randy or Steve wish to volunteer something or Pat that's fine as well.
I come right back to thinking that the main advantage we have -- and look I think a lot of these peers are very good companies.
So I don't -- I certainly do not mean for any of this to come across as being critical.
But if we just look at ourselves we'd say we get a benefit from this factor I had mentioned on an earlier -- in answer to an earlier question about having a better more detailed knowledge of how much it actually costs to build the takeaway capacity to go from say point A to point B and to be able to compare that to what the prices are in the market.
We -- as a result of a lot of these activities we have a pretty good idea of what other projects are out there as well and a notion of how that's likely to impact that basis differential between those locations over the course of time.
So we've got a sense of what projects we think make sense over time and which ones make less sense over time.
Beyond that of course we do get a benefit from the fact that we have built a lot of the gathering here.
So a lot of the gathering necessarily goes through our Equitrans system.
Equitrans is feeding the MVP project et cetera.
Randy you have any thoughts? Yes.
I would just add that -- at EQT that we've been from a first mover standpoint from the fact that we were in the Huron and moving the importance of FTE that the contracts that we have entered into are economically sound.
They access a broad portfolio an excellent commercial group and we're getting to a variety of different markets.
And so the fact that we have stepped up our team [ph] '14 [ph] Capacity is coming on in November that will access both the Gulf Coast and the Northeast market.
So we have consistently at EQT been proactive in procuring firm transportation to the valued markets that David said.
And I think our track record speaks for itself.
So look none of the peers who are roughly our size have their head in the sand on this.
Everybody that we're aware of is aware and has been aware that they need to be focused on takeaway capacity.
I mean I understand there's been a couple of cases where folks maybe didn't have as much for whatever reason.
Actually if you -- the -- if your credit rating isn't as good maybe it's harder to get some of the firm transport the terms that you would like.
But generally speaking I think our -- the peers who are more or less our size are all very and have been very focused on this issue.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then lastly in terms of options for the GP is doing nothing -- is that still an option that you might disclose at year-end? And could you disclose what the most viable options are that you're pursuing at this point? I guess I'd say in theory it's an option because I don't really want to go into details.
But I don't know that that would be a -- if I were in your shoes I'm not sure that that's the inference that I would be drawing from the comments that we've made.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Could you talk about the most viable options that you are pursuing? I've got 2 lawyers in the room staring at me.
So is that an answer enough? This does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Patrick Kane for any closing remarks.
Thank you Maureen and thank you all for participating.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the EQT Corporation Year-end 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to our Chief Investor Relations Officer Mr.
Pat Kane.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks David.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation's Year-end 2014 Conference Call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Executive Vice President and President Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a 7-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 p.m.
Eastern Time today.
The telephone number for the replay is (888) 445-1112 with the confirmation code of 8636267.
The call will also be replayed for 7 days on our website.
To remind you the results of EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM are consolidated in EQT's results.
There was a separate press release issued by EQM this morning and there is a separate conference call at 11:30 a.m.
today which requires us to take the last question at 11:20 on this call.
If you're interested in the EQM call the dial-in number is (913) 312-9034 the confirmation code is 8851668.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT's operational and financial results for the year-end 2014.
Next Steve will summarize the capital budget revisions and the reserve report.
Finally Dave will provide a summary of our strategic and operational matters.
Following the prepared remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements related to future events and expectations.
You can find factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today's press release under Risk Factors in the EQT's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 which was filed with the SEC; and is updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which were on file at the SEC and available on our website; and the company's Form 10-K for year-end December 31 2014 which is scheduled to be filed with the SEC next week.
Today's call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning's press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in press release this morning EQT announced 2014 adjusted earnings of $3.40 per diluted share compared to $1.97 per diluted share in 2013.
A high-level story for the year as well as the fourth quarter was a very strong volume growth and overall lower unit cash cost.
Notably Production volumes were 26% higher than last year and Midstream gathering volumes were up by 27%.
As a result adjusted EQT earnings EPS and operating cash flow for 2014 were all up considerably over 2013 by any measure although both years were impacted by some unusual items that should be considered when interpreting and comparing results.
I will touch on a couple of these items in my comments but I do refer you to our non-GAAP reconciliations in today's release for more details.
Also adjusted operating cash flow of $1.4 billion in 2014 was up considerably at 19% higher than 2013.
As I mentioned we have several unusual items impacting earnings during 2014.
In the second quarter EQT completed an exchange of our Nora assets with Range Resources Corporation for 73 000 net acres in the Permian basin.
We did record a $34 million gain at the time on that transaction.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 EQT recognized pretax impairment charges of $162 million on our Ohio Utica shale properties where estimated ultimate recoveries or EURs were significantly below our expectations; and also a $105 million impairment on our Permian basin properties as a result of the decline in oil prices.
Also in the fourth quarter EQT contributed $20 million to our charitable foundation.
Fourth quarter 2014 adjusted earnings were $0.96 per diluted share.
That compares to adjusted EPS of $0.39 in the fourth quarter 2013.
A significantly higher Production and Midstream volumes once again drove results.
Adjusted operating cash flow at EQT was $390 million in the fourth quarter compared to $314 million for the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our operational performance continued to be outstanding in the fourth quarter with 33% higher Production volumes than the fourth quarter 2013.
We also realized 40% higher gathering volumes than last year and continued low per unit operating cost in both businesses.
Finally in the fourth quarter effective tax rate was actually negative as the full year 2014 effective tax rate of approximately 30% ended up lower than the 33% which we had applied to the first 3 quarters of 2014.
The lower full year rate resulted from several factors including some state tax planning that was implemented in the fourth quarter.
The continuing impact of blending and the growing nontaxable EQM partnership earnings are consolidated with EQT and low pretax income as a result of the impairments in the fourth quarter.
Now moving on to a brief discussion of results by business segment.
I will limit my discussion to the full year results as the explanations for the full year for the most part apply to the fourth quarter as well.
So starting with EQT Production operating results.
As has been the case for many years now the big story in '14 at EQT Production was the growth in sales of produced natural gas.
As I mentioned the growth rate was 26% higher for the year driven by sales from our Marcellus wells.
2014 was our fifth straight year of more than 25% sales volume growth.
The EQT average realized sales price was relatively flat at $4.16 per Mcfe and 14 -- about $0.04 lower than it was in 2013.
For segment reporting purposes of that $4.16 per Mcfe realized by EQT Corporation $3.23 was allocated to EQT Production with the remaining $0.93 to EQT Midstream.
The majority of this $0.93 at Midstream is for gathering which averaged $0.73 per Mcfe.
I'd like to summarize a few changes that we made to our price reconciliation table which should help in understanding the buildup of our realized price which excludes noncash impacts.
First we applied the processing deduction directly to the liquid sales rather than averaging those deductions across all gas and liquids volumes.
And secondly we moved the Btu uplift to the natural gas sale section of the table to reflect the fact that on average our gas has a higher Btu content than the NYMEX spec primarily as a result of ethane that is sold as methane.
Because of that higher Btu value we realized a higher price per Mcf at NYMEX which is reflected on the table.
And then finally we added an average differential line.
The average differentials include the impact of local basis recoveries received from selling some of our natural gas into higher-priced markets recoveries from the resale of unused capacity and the impact of cash settled basis swaps.
With these changes it better explains the sales price that we received for our gas.
For the full year total operating expenses at EQT Production were 600 -- $867 million excluding the impairment charges of 9% higher year-over-year.
Absolute DD&amp;A SG&amp;A LOE and production taxes were all higher again consistent with the significant production growth.
Moving now to the Midstream business.
Operating income here was up 17% year-over-year mainly as a result of the continued growth on gathered volumes and the subsequent entries in gathering total operating revenues.
Transmission net revenues also increased by almost 41% year-over-year as a result of an increase in firm-contracted capacity.
Net operating expenses at Midstream were about 17% higher year-over-year and that again was consistent with the growth in the Midstream business.
Finally our standard liquidity update.
We closed the year in a great liquidity position with 0 net short-term debt outstanding under EQT's $1.5 billion unsecured revolver and about $950 million in cash on the balance sheet and that excludes cash on hand at EQM.
Based on current commodity prices we forecast approximately $1 billion in operating cash flow for 2015 at EQT and that is again excluding the noncontrolling interest portion of adjusted EQM EBITDA.
So we expect to fund our roughly $2 billion 2015 CapEx forecast again excluding EQM with that expected cash flow and current cash on hand.
With that I'll turn the call over to Steve Schlotterbeck to discuss the reduction in our CapEx forecast as well as today's reserve release.
Thank you Phil.
As you read in today's press release we were lowering our 2015 CapEx budget by $450 million or 18% in response to the current economic environment.
This consists of $425 million in EQT Production and $25 million in EQT Midstream.
Of the $425 million reductions at EQT Production $400 million is related to reductions in our drilling and completions budgets.
We're reducing our Permian program to 5 wells which were required to hold our acreage.
And in the Marcellus we are narrowing our focus to our highest-return Marcellus development areas.
And the remaining $25 million reduction is in G&amp;G and facilities expenditures.
These cuts do not assume any service cost deflation.
While we expect to realize significant service cost reductions we are currently in negotiations with all of our suppliers and do not want to forecast specific savings until those negotiations are concluded.
Moving on to our dry gas Utica well.
As you know we spud this county [ph] well in November.
During the drilling of the curve we encountered higher-than-expected reservoir pressures.
Based on the pressures observed we needed to significantly increase our mud weight.
However the mud system on the rig is not rated high enough for what's required to continue drilling.
Therefore we are now bringing in a rig with a higher-rated mud system which has caused us to be behind our original schedule.
We expect that rig to be on location toward the end of February.
But despite this minor timing setback we continue to be excited and optimistic about our dry gas Utica potential beneath our acreage.
Finally I'd like to discuss our reserve report.
This morning we announced year-end 2014 total proved reserves of 10.7 Tcfe with a 2.4 Tcfe or 29% higher than the previous year and represents a reserve replacement ratio of 590%.
Extensions in discoveries totaled 3.3 Tcfe which included 939 Bcfe of crude reserves from 220 wells that were unproved in 2013 but they were drilled and completed in 2014.
This is consistent with the company's history of continuing to expand its footprint and develop areas that we believe to be economic even when they do not meet the SEC's definition of proved reserves.
Another piece of the 3.3 Tcfe of extensions in discoveries was 1.4 Tcfe of previously probable and possible reserves that we plan to drill over the next 5 years that were moved to proved undeveloped due to expansion of the geographic area classified as proved longer-planned laterals and improved type curves.
Additionally 954 Bcfe from new locations primarily as a result of acreage additions were booked as PUD reserves.
And one final comment on proved reserves 790 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves were converted to crude developed in 2014 as a result of our drilling and completion program.
Our 3P reserves or the total of proved probable and possible reserves increased 6.4 Tcfe to 42.8 Tcfe an 18% increase over the prior year.
This increase was mostly in the Marcellus and does not include any dry Utica.
And finally we are adjusting our guidance for our DD&amp;A rate for 2015 to reflect the finalized reserve report.
We now estimate our per unit DD&amp;A to be $1.17 per Mcfe or $0.05 lower than 2014.
Also as you see in our 10-K that we expect to file next week our after-tax PV-10 was $4.8 billion 22% higher than last year driven by the increase in crude reserves.
This reflects a NYMEX price calculating in accordance with the SEC requirements that was $0.70 per dekatherm higher than in 2013.
However a decrease in regional basis of $0.71 per dekatherm led to an effective wellhead price that was $0.01 lower than last year.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Porges for his comments.
Thank you Steve.
Given the straightforward results for the fourth quarter I will limit my prepared remarks to a discussion of our 2 announcements back on December 8 our 2015 operational forecast and our intent to form a second master limited partnership or MLP.
As you know this is our first conference call since we've made those announcements and we thought there might be some interest in hearing us elaborate on those topics as both pertain to our contemplated activities in 2015.
Let's cover the MLP first.
Our intent with this new vehicle is that it will own EQT's general partner or GP interest in EQT Midstream Partners or EQM including the incentive distribution rights.
And it will also own the $21 million EQM common units that are owned by EQT.
EQT will be the general partner of the new MLP.
And as a result EQT will continue to operate both MLPs a distinct advantage as we execute on our development plans.
Once EQM's 2014 Form 10-K is filed and the results are incorporated into the draft prospectus we intend to file that document the S-1 with the Securities and Exchange Commission during the first quarter.
This will begin the iterative process of review by the SEC in response by us so we hope to be ready for an IPO by about midyear but the timing will depend upon that review process.
We do not believe that the rapidly growing GP cash flows are being fairly valued in the EQT stock price.
As we reviewed our alternatives to rectify that situation we concluded that we wanted to be a vehicle that was publicly traded; had favorable tax attributes such as those offered by an MLP; retains effective operational control by EQT as long as that seems optimal; and that would allow a tax-efficient separation from EQT should we decide to affect one in the future.
To be clear we do believe there are significant operational synergies between a midstream and upstream business during this time of rapid growth.
We recognize that this period will not continue indefinitely and we need to be quite comfortable but the chosen structure would not preclude a tax-efficient separation should that become desirable.
As tied to the announcement we received a few offline questions as to why we chose the MLP structure over the structure known as Up-C.
We did give that latter structure significant consideration but concluded that the age of a significant portion of the EQM assets precluded favorable tax treatment offered by the Up-C structure.
Also we concluded after much in-depth discussion with tax experts that a tax-efficient separation was every bit as feasible for a standard MLP as for an Up-C.
Moving on to our operational forecast for 2015.
You have read about the specific statistics in the December release and revisions in today's earnings release and heard more about this just now from Steve.
What I would like to add in the discussion is more about our thought process especially how it relates to our financial situation and philosophy.
As Phil mentioned we ended 2014 with $950 million in cash at the EQT level and investment-grade rating from the 3 major rating agencies: 0 drawn on a $1.5 billion unsecured revolver; $200 million of Midstream EBITDA still owned by EQT Corp; our plan to drop our Northern West Virginia gathering assets to EQM in 2015; and proceeds expected from the previously discussed GP IPO.
In that context when we announced our budget in December we were comfortable with a CapEx estimate that was about $1.2 billion higher than our operating cash flow estimate for 2015.
Frankly my expectation was that the GP IPO proceeds would not be touched in any of that.
That money would remain in the bank account as of the end of 2015.
Since that time the 2015 NYMEX strip for natural gas crude oil and NGLs has declined significantly.
Using current prices we estimate that our operating cash flow for 2015 will be approximately $300 million less than we anticipated at the time of that release in December.
As a result we decided to lower our activity level to more than match the decline in operating cash flow.
So if things play out as planned we expect to end 2015 with significant cash on hand nothing drawn on the revolver et cetera.
In other words with this revision our current expectation is that we will be in a better position from a financial liquidity perspective than we expected at the time of the December release.
In times of financial stress such as these we think the prudent approach is to be conservative financially.
Whatever happens over the course of the rest of this year from a financial perspective quicker recovery or slower recovery the presence or absence of opportunities created by overextended peers et cetera we believe we are better off with cash on hand strong credit position and strong equity position.
In my opinion it is too early in the cycle for us to know how this will play out.
But no matter what happens we are confident that having a strong balance sheet will create shareholder value.
At the least it feels good to know that we already have clear line of sight for funding robust value-accretive drilling programs this year as well as at least the next couple of years.
I believe that our strong balance sheet will differentiate EQT during this low-price environment as we will be able to continue to efficiently and profitably develop our acreage over a multiyear period and emerge from the cycle stronger than when we entered it.
In summary EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by intelligently accelerating the monetization of our reserves and other opportunities.
We continue to be focused on doing what we can to increase the value of your shares.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and appreciate your continued support.
And with that I'd like to turn the call back over to Pat.
Thank you David.
That concludes today's prepared portion of the call.
David can we please now open the call for questions? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Phillip Jungwirth with BMO.
On the third quarter call you guys have talked about it being most economical to develop the core Marcellus and Upper Devonian.
That it's fast.
It's practical and yet midstream [indiscernible] commitment to support mid-20% growth for over the next couple of years obviously is the one that's changed since then.
But I was just wondering if you could provide any update to the longer-term growth outlook and the reduction '15 CapEx and whether you could provide a range of sensitivities such as at $4 gas we can grow mid-20s.
But with at $3 gas I think it's more prudent to target a mid-teens growth rate.
We're all looking at each other.
We haven't actually gone through all of those sensitivities.
It is fair to say that if we spend less then the growth rates will be a little bit less.
But frankly we would still think that they would have approached the levels that we have talked about previously if the strip remains what it is at.
I mean it's -- at the current strip you're probably looking -- you might be looking at more like mid to high teens for the next couple of years but we have tried to position ourselves so that we could ramp up as Steve mentioned pretty quickly if need be.
I mean that's part of the benefit of having cut back more than cash flow would have dictated that we needed to.
But we haven't really run through a variety of sensitivities in this kind of volatile market to give you a good answer to your question about what the growth rate would be at different NYMEX prices.
Over the course of the next couple of months we probably will run through those types of sensitivities and certainly we'll share those as we do.
Okay.
I know you guys haven't provided '16 guidance.
But how would the reduced '15 activity plan impact your ability to ramp back up? I know you've always talked about there being a 9-month lag and spud to sale.
So for 2015 should we think about that just taking the sequential run rate in the back half of the year extrapolating that into '16? Or is there the potential to ramp back up any increase in wells but could still impact '16? Yes.
Phil this is Steve.
Yes we continue to have a fairly long lag time from TIL -- or from spud to TIL that will continue.
So what that means is most of the changes in '15's CapEx plan will affect 2016 production and we've announced no impact on 2015.
We'll maintain the ability to ramp up fairly quickly if the current price environment would approve and dictate that that's a prudent thing to do.
So we could change our plans fairly quickly.
But given the plan that we just announced with the CapEx reductions we think it's safe to say that we expect to be in the mid- to high-teens production growth in 2016.
And again if things improve and we can ramp back up then that number would go up as well.
Okay great.
And then last question has anything in the last couple of months such as gas prices or land activity levels changed your thinking on the GP valuation which I think last quarter you expect at $4.6 billion.
And I know there's a range based on terminal growth and the discount rates but the publicly traded EQM LP units have actually been pretty resilient.
I want to think that [ph] but I just want to make sure.
Well the -- our inside counsel who is in the room are staring at us with what feels like daggers and they have -- they reminded us before the call that given that we've announced our intention to file a prospectus an S-1 that we really shouldn't be commenting on such things.
So I hope you will understand our reluctance to answer that question.
I will comment that I think other people's GP opportunities have not necessarily been impacted by this if they're in a -- an area that has a favorable -- relatively favorable cost structure such as the Marcellus Utica.
We'll take our next question from Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> I guess a couple of questions on my end some were kind of hit on already.
But you all mentioned that there were no assumed cost reductions in 2015 budget as of yet.
I guess number one where are you? I guess in the process ahead of those conversations any indications around quantifying what those might look like? And then secondarily to the extent they do come in in a material -- how should we think about that as it relates to the capital budget? Should we expect you to accelerate with those excess savings? Or would that -- it sounds like maybe more likely accrued to the balance sheet.
Michael we're right in the middle of that process.
I can tell you we have contacted all of our suppliers requesting a reduction and we are starting now to get responses.
And we're pretty happy with what we're seeing so far.
But again it's in the middle of the process and we're hesitant to really comment in detail on it because we don't want that compromise any of our negotiations.
But I think over the course of the next 3 or 4 weeks we should conclude the bulk of that and have a better idea of exactly how much savings we expect to get.
And given the -- to your question about spending the money frankly given our ample liquidity and forecast liquidity getting extra money doesn't really affect our thought process.
I mean we will be making decisions about the pace of development as we look at the market more broadly not based on having a few bucks.
I mean we've -- we're not uncomfortable at all.
Because I think we've been saying ever since we started the drops of the MLP a couple of years ago we are not at all uncomfortable with having extra cash in the balance sheet.
We don't think that that prudence has hurt us in the past.
There's nothing about the market that makes us think that that's not -- that that's an inappropriate approach.
So we're going to stick with that.
LLC</strong> Okay helpful colors.
And then the kind of resale of excess term has helped you out in the last few quarters or several quarters.
How long do you guys project having the ability to do that? Meaning like do you eat up that firm in 2015 time period? Or is that something you'll have in your back pocket if you will through the course of 2015? Michael this is Randy.
Certainly we think that the capacity portfolio that EQT holds has value value in the long run.
And so we would expect that to continue for an extended period of time.
But I would also point out that a great deal of the benefit that we're getting is our ability to get to further downstream markets and to pick up feel-better pricing as a result.
So in other words it's -- we're happy -- we're just as happy with the money that we get from selling our own gas into a premium market as we would be to sell to right to move the gas sell that right to somebody else.
We still get the benefit.
And of course we continue to add capacity basically every year from now for the next couple or 3 years 4 years.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Yes that's helpful.
And then it might be something I need to wait for but as it relates to the second MLP I don't know if this has been discussed in the past or not but is the intention -- like you said you're alone on the GP on that or maybe I'm ahead of myself but is there an intention to have IDRs on that GP as well? Yes.
What was -- what if we...[ph] Now there's the -- the new -- the GP IPO or the GP MLP will not have an IDR structure.
LLC</strong> Compounding IDRs.
Yes.
The IDRs from the existing MLP end up in the new MLP.
But they won't have a similar structure.
We'll take our next question from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned that first Utica test and encountering higher pressure.
Can you provide any color on just how much the pressure exceeded your initial expectations? What I'll tell you is we had the mud up to 18.7 pound per gallon mud which indicates an extremely high pressure gradient.
And we were several pounds per gallon below that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And where was that well? That's in Greene County Southwestern Pennsylvania.
Research Division</strong> And can you remind us where you're planning to drill the other tests in 2015? The next test will -- is planned for Wetzel County.
And beyond that it will depend on the results we see from the first 2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is it the idea to delineate primarily West Virginia this year aside from the Greene County well? Or is there a lot of potentially drilling tests in this first run within Pennsylvania as well? I think it's going to be strictly dependent on what we find so we have -- we don't have a lot of direct geologic data.
So these are -- they are first tests so we're going to gather a lot of data.
And depending on what we see we'll determine where we need to go.
So first one Southwestern Pennsylvania second one Northern West Virginia and beyond that will be determined by those first 2.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Can you give us a sense of when we might get results from those first 2 tests? Well I hesitate to say that given that these are exploratory wells and as we've already seen unexpected things can happen so we expect to be back drilling the curve in the lateral on the first well in late February.
So that should take a few weeks and then we'll be fracking the well so that pushes it out probably another month.
But with these kinds of wells it's hard to predict.
So -- but in this early spring we would hope to start getting some results.
Research Division</strong> And you might share those at that time or maybe it may depends on what you see? Yes I think it depends.
We'll take our next question from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Steve for you or the guys wonder -- I know the production -- or I guess I should say the EBITDA cash flow guidance out there I think you are assuming some differentials that were certainly a bit higher than what you've seen last quarter.
Just want to know how you think about that.
I think as far as what you're thinking now on cash flow I think you had for the quarter I would call what's roughly around $0.40-or-so differential.
Just I guess your thoughts on 2 things.
One what are you kind of -- you're thinking about differentials here for the next I guess the remainder of this year? And how does that impact that cash flow or EBITDA? Neal we have this in the press release that's under guidance.
So the differential for the year we're projecting at between negative $0.40 and negative $0.50.
And for the first quarter we expect it to be positive $0.10 to $0.15.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That -- I guess I understand that path.
I mean I think back in December you're looking -- on a higher differential number you had I thought virtually the same sort of estimate for cash flow.
So it's like -- I guess what I'm getting at is just the difference between the -- the difference in the [indiscernible] differentials the new change in production is that what offsets this? No.
The differentials is -- they were less than $0.05 better than in December about $0.05 better.
It's the NYMEX price that mainly is impacting the cash flow.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You just make sense on that.
I got you I got you okay.
And then lastly just on takeaway you guys continue to do an outstanding job as far as being ahead of the curve there.
I know versus some of your peers that still lack ample takeaway in the Utica.
Just your thoughts maybe for Steve or any of the guys when -- I guess depending on the success of some of these dry gas Utica wells is it suffice to say you'll have ample takeaways in that region if those come on as well? Neal I think it's a little early to really try and project really what's going to happen with dry Utica given that we haven't even finished our first well.
So I think we're going to hold off even commenting on that until we've got some test results and really can quantify what we think the impact of a success in the dry Utica might be.
Next question comes from Joe Allman with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> So I know that this morning you lowered your planned CapEx budget for 2015 but I just want to compare the new CapEx budget to what you spent in 2014.
So if we're talking about just exploration and development is your new CapEx budget for 2015 higher than what you spent for E&amp;D in 2014? Or is it flat or lower? And what does that mean for where your rig count goes from here? Joe it is up a little bit.
I don't actually have the number right in front of me so we're checking on that to tell you how much.
But it is an increase over '14.
Yes.
So '14 for development we were at $1.7 billion.
$1.85 billion this year.
And $1.85 billion this year so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so from here does that mean an increase in rig count or? Well the rig count we -- for the bulk of the year we expect to have 8 big rigs running and 4 topple rigs so a total rig count of 12.
I think we’re currently at 15 as we stand today but that will be ramping down here shortly.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay that's helpful.
And then the reduction in CapEx at least on the production side I think your old budget was $2.3 billion and now you're at $1.85 billion so that's a 20% decline in CapEx.
Your well count is down by 33% in the Marcellus and the Permian from what you plan in December.
So could you just help me understand the -- why the CapEx drop is not proportionate with the well drop? Yes.
There's a lot of CapEx that's -- for completing wells that we're spud last year.
So you have a -- your CapEx it goes against well spud against last year.
And then wells are spud this year there'll be CapEx associated with those that carry into next year as well.
So it's very normal to have a disconnect there.
Remember that the majority -- the clear majority of what we spend on any well is spent after we've -- after the drilling rig itself has moved off the location.
And yet our account is typically for spuds.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
But what's the inventory of wells that you drilled that you haven't yet completed as of December 31 2014? [indiscernible] the release.
We'll get back in a second.
So we had 722 wells spud and 531 of those were online at the end of the year.
And then there's 23 that were complete but not online.
Next question comes from Stephen Richardson from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> David I was wondering if you could -- at risk of raising the ire of your General Counsel I was wondering if you could talk about your comments about the tax-efficient separation potential of this new HoldCo? And are there any restrictions on -- are there any requirements on EQT -- C corp's ownership of this structure going forward? Yes there will be with any of these things.
It's not specific to our situation.
But the requirements have more to do with how much kind of indirectly I guess you'd say how much of the ownership of the underlying operating assets that we have.
So that's -- it wouldn't be specifically EQT's ownership of this GP HoldCo.
It would be more related to that ownership x the HoldCo's ownership of EQM.
That would really be more of what would be looked through.
So exactly how any such entity goes about optimizing that is kind of depends on the circumstances.
We'd -- and we'll be taking a look of that.
But that's really the issue.
It's not the standard C corp C corp where you think about you need to add about 80% ownership 80% -- and then -- and spend 80% if that's what you're getting at.
It's a much lower thresholds but your requirements are tied to what that underlying -- the ownership of the underlying operating businesses.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And is there any -- as you think forward acknowledging the synergies between these 2 businesses in the next couple of years certainly as you think forward to certainly building potentially the MVP pipeline are there -- do you think there's a relationship between when the timing of this potential tax-efficient separation would come and the funding needs of EQM building new projects? Are those 2 issues related? Or are they independent? How do we kind of think about that in terms of timing? I haven't really thought that EQM's funding needs are necessarily related to that so I would grant you that given what we just talked about the -- when you need more funding that you too can get to the point where you'd dilute the parent company's ownership sufficiently that you'd say "Geez you better make a move before you pass through that threshold." So certainly that would -- that could factor into it.
But there's a variety of ways that one could deal with it in the meantime.
More broadly but really just looking at what's the best way to create shareholder value for EQT shareholders.
That's the governing issue.
But the comment that you're making about EQM's ultimate growth is certainly a fair one.
It does impact the -- that is one of the factors that one would look at.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
If I could follow up just a little quick one for Steve the decision to cut back in the Marcellus.
Can you talk a little bit about where you're going to be focusing activity? I would assume that this would be less C county drilling certainly and more Greene and Wetzel drilling in terms of the core program for '16.
How do you balance that with what's going on with your processing margin and some of the issues right now in the NGL market in the Southwest? If you could just talk to that a little bit it'd be useful.
I think you actually answered your own question.
So our focus is definitely going to be in our core Southwestern Pennsylvania Northern West Virginia areas.
Until recently the Northern West Virginia development has a slightly higher return in our Southwestern PA even though the Pennsylvania wells were a bit more productive because of the liquid uplift.
The current liquids market that's flip flopped a little bit.
So the southwestern PA dry gas area is back on top with Northern West Virginia close second but pretty much pulling back everywhere else.
So yes the C counties no drilling and some of the step-out wells we were doing especially some of the dry areas of West Virginia is where we're cutting back.
Next question comes from Cameron Horwitz with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> Just a real quick question for me does your production guidance bake in any expectation for production shut-in in the next rollout period just due to pricing at all? No we're expecting any shut-ins.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> I'm just -- I was curious as it relates to the 2015 plan in wells put on the production.
Any guidance or on how many wells you would expect to put on production in 2015 average lateral length? And if there's any nuance as to the timing of those wells coming on given the trajectory coming out of 2014? Michael I don't have the specific numbers in front of me.
But regarding the timing I think you're likely to see production in the second and third quarters to sort of moderate a bit.
So this year will be a first in 4 quarters it'd be where our growth has been.
And if you look back over our history you'll see that that moves around.
But we generally have a couple of quarters every year with bigger sequential growth than the other 2 quarters.
This year is more likely to be first and fourth sort of [ph] bigger increases just based on the timing of our drilling plan.
We'll take our next question from Michael Rowe with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could maybe just expand a little bit on your comments earlier regarding the current liquids market fundamentals in West Virginia and just how those have deteriorated a little bit since -- even just a month or 2 ago? I just wanted to see if you could expand on that maybe a little bit and then provide any insights into your NGL realization for 2015.
We have a slide in our presentation that shows what's usually called the liquids uplift and now we call it the liquids impact.
Because essentially the price that you get -- you still get a higher price per Btu for the liquids but we take out the processing fee you end up back at even with the gas price.
So right now they're being priced on par net of fees.
But we're not experiencing anything any different than others.
We just -- I mean we have less wet gas obviously than some of our peers so we don't -- the impact is more muted for us.
So it's probably better folks for you to ask about that question.
But -- so we don't have anything really to offer other than what you see in the market which is that ethane prices are very weak especially netted back to the wellhead especially.
And propane because of the storage situation is also quite weak.
And there's a variety of takeaway projects that are in the market that are just designed to mitigate some of that.
But it's -- when oil prices have dropped as much as they have it's really swimming upstream.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And I guess just the last question is it looks like -- I look at your new February analyst presentation the EQT gathering -- from EQT Midstream gathering CapEx has come down probably 35% 40% from your prior guidance.
And so that's just related to fewer wells being drilled and potentially fewer wells being brought online? That only came down by $25 million on a 2.5 -- $250 million budget so it's about 10% reduction.
And that just ties to gathering systems that were being built where the drilling that's been cut that we won't need it as soon.
It refers to what Steve has talked about in the C counties and stuff like that.
And we have no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Pat Kane.
All right.
Thank you David and thank you all for participating.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the EQT Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I’d like to turn the conference over to your host Patrick Kane.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Danny and good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation’s conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Executive Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a 7-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 PM Eastern today.
The telephone number for the replay is 719-457-0820 with a confirmation code of 2277056.
The call will also be replayed for 7 days on our website.
We remind you that results of EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM are consolidated in EQT’s results.
There was a separate press release issued by EQM this morning and there’s a separate conference call at 11:30 AM today which requires that we take the last question at 11:20.
The dial-in number for that call is 913-312-9034.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT’s results; next Steve will summarize the capital budget revisions; and finally Dave will provide an update on two projects.
Following the prepared remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will be available to answer your questions.
I’d like to remind you that today’s call may contain forward-looking statements.
You can find factors that could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today’s press release and under Risk Factors in EQT’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are on file with the SEC and available on our website.
Today’s call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning’s press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced first quarter 2015 adjusted earnings per diluted share of $1.08 which represents a 20% decrease from adjusted EPS in the first quarter 2014.
Adjusted operating cash flow attributable to EQT also decreased by about 16% to $386 million for the quarter.
We had another very solid operational quarter including record produced natural gas sales and record gathering volumes at Midstream.
A high level story for the first quarter was strong volume growth more than offset by lower realized prices.
Our pricing was significantly below last year.
Our average differential was better than expected offsetting some of the impact of lower prices.
This came primarily as a result of moving gas to higher priced Northeast markets in the first quarter 2015.
As a reminder EQT Midstream Partners’ results are consolidated in EQT Corporation’s results and EQT recorded $47.7 million of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests or $0.31 per diluted share in the first quarter 2015 as compared to $18.7 million or $0.12 per diluted share in the first quarter 2014.
This increase also had an impact on the effective tax rate in the quarter which was around 20% and they have been lower than some of you expected.
That is a function of both the increasing noncontrolling interest portion of EQM which is not tax affected as well as Production income which is tax affected being a smaller piece of the overall pie versus last year as a result of lower commodity prices.
Other than that the first quarter was very straightforward and I will keep my remarks fairly brief.
The story in the quarter at EQT Production continues to be growth in sales of produced natural gas.
Production sales growth in the recently completed quarter was 37% higher than the first quarter of 2014.
NGL volumes were also higher 71% higher than last year accounting for 9% of our total volumes.
However as I mentioned the lower average realized price more than offset the volume growth.
The realized price at EQT Production was $2.77 per Mcf equivalent compared to $4.50 per Mcf equivalent last year.
And you will find the detailed components of the price differences in the tables in this morning’s press release.
Total operating expenses at EQT Production were $316.4 million or $81.2 million higher quarter-over-quarter.
In March we decided to suspend drilling in the Permian Basin as projected economics continued to deteriorate.
There are several expenses in the first quarter related to that decision as well as to the lower commodity prices in general.
In SG&amp;A we recognized $11 million of expenses related to discontinued drilling including rig termination costs a write-down of some well casing inventory and operating well impairments.
Exploration expense was also higher and includes $11 million of non-cash lease impairments.
Shifting back to operating results higher DD&amp;A expense accounted for $40 million of the increase in total operating expenses and was driven by volume growth but partially offset by a lower average depletion rate in 2015.
Transportation and processing expenses were $15 million higher than last year and you should note that these expenses were previously presented as revenue deductions in EQT Production’s results.
And as you would expect reported EQT Production revenues are higher as well to reflect that new presentation.
LOE including production taxes was essentially flat compared to last year.
Moving on to the Midstream business operating income here was up 56%.
This is consistent with the growth of gathered volumes and increased capacity-based transmission revenue.
Gathering net operating revenues increased by 44% to $129 million as gathering volumes increased by about 47%.
Transmission net revenues increased by $20 million or 38% as additional firm capacity was added over the past year mostly in the second quarter 2014.
Storage marketing and other net operating revenues were down slightly about $1.4 million lower in the first quarter.
Total operating expenses at Midstream were $11 million higher quarter-over-quarter as a result of continuing growth in our Midstream business.
On a per-unit basis however gathering and compression expense was down 31% as a result of volumes growing much faster than expected.
Just a brief note on liquidity EQT currently has $1.6 billion of cash on hand not including EQM and full availability under EQT’s $1.5 billion credit facility.
So we remain in a great liquidity position to accomplish our goals for the foreseeable future.
Our current estimate of 2015 EQT operating cash flow adjusted to exclude the noncontrolling interest portion of EQM’s cash flow is $900 million.
With that I will turn the call over to Steve Schlotterbeck.
Thank you Phil.
As you read in today’s press release we are lowering our 2015 CapEx forecast by $150 million to reflect the midpoint of our negotiated service cost reductions that we published in our March analyst presentation.
Based on these reduced service costs we expect our average cost per well to be between 10% and 15% less than last year.
If weak commodity prices persist we believe there could be more opportunities to cut costs but for now we think 10% to 15% is a reasonable expectation.
Also in response to weak oil prices we’ve decided to suspend drilling in the Permian Basin which was already reduced to drilling the minimum number of wells to hold certain leases.
As a result we will lose our development rights to approximately 700 Upper Wolfcamp acres.
It’s always a tough decision to let leases expire but we think in this environment that’s a prudent economic decision.
Moving on to our dry gas Utica well as you know we spud this Greene County well in November.
During the drilling of the curve we encountered higher than expected reservoir pressures and based on the pressures observed we needed to significantly increase our mud weight which required a larger rig.
We deployed the larger rig in March and completed the drilling of the well with a final lateral length of 3 300 feet.
We’re currently running some reservoir tests and expect to begin fracing in early June.
Despite this timing setback we continue to be excited and optimistic about the dry gas Utica potential beneath our acreage.
Upon completion of the Greene County well we plan to drill a deep Utica well in Wetzel County West Virginia later this year.
Since we still do not have any results from our first well we will not speculate about those results but we will provide you with updates as we learn more.
I’d now turn the call over to Dave Porges for his comments.
Thank you Steve.
Given the straightforward results for the quarter I will limit my prepared remarks to an update on two previously announced projects.
Let’s cover the Master Limited Partnership first the new one.
As we discussed in February we decided to take public a new vehicle that will own all of EQT’s interests in EQT Midstream Partners or EQM.
This means the new vehicle whose New York Stock Exchange symbol is expected to be EQGP will own EQT’s general partner or GP interest including the incentive distribution rights and it will also own the 22 million EQM limited partner units owned by EQT.
On February 12 we filed the initial draft S-1 registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We received comments from the SEC on the draft and incorporated them into a revised S-1 which was filed on April 1.
This is an iterative process of review by the SEC and response by us so we cannot accurately predict the timing of a final S-1 but we reiterate our hope to be ready for an initial public offering of EQGP by about midyear.
Now for an update on the Mountain Valley Pipeline or MVP in the first quarter MVP announced the addition of WGL Holdings and Vega Energy Partners a WGL subsidiary to the joint venture.
As we have previously discussed this project will be built and operated by EQT Midstream Partners.
EQM’s ownership interest in the JV is 55%.
NextERA owns 35% and WGL and its subsidiaries own 10%.
In addition to their ownership stake WGL will be a shipper on the pipeline and has also agreed to purchase 500 million cubic feet per day of natural gas priced at Transco station 165.
We believe this further validates the demand market’s desire to access the abundant Marcellus and Utica supply resource.
EQT shareholders will benefit in two ways from this project.
First it will provide EQT Production access to one of the fastest-growing gas consumption markets in the United States.
And second it will provide cash flow growth at the MLP which adds to the value of our GP and LP interests.
In conclusion EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by intelligently accelerating the monetization of our reserves and other opportunities.
We have a very strong balance sheet which will allow us to continue to be focused on doing what we can to increase the value of your shares.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and appreciate your continued support.
With that I’d like to turn the call back over to Pat Kane again.
Thank you Dave.
This concludes the comments portion of the call.
Danny can we now open the line for questions? [Operator Instructions] We’ll take our first question from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Steve for you and the guys you mentioned obviously for the service costs I know you took the CapEx down considerably.
Could you talk a little bit it looked also like LOE we was down considerably and then on a go forward it appears to be – what are you doing in that category to continue to bring that down so nicely? I think it’s just more of the same Neal.
Production continues to increase at a much faster pace than the costs required to maintain that production.
So I don’t think there’s anything in particular I would point to other than just continue trying to manage our water costs as best we can.
That’s probably the one area that we focus a lot of attention on and it’s a pretty high cost area relative to the others and is an area that’s continuing to prove how we handle our water will help us continue to keep our unit costs in line.
I know it’s early obviously on that Utica well drill and obviously a bit away from the one you’re going to drill in the west.
I’m just wondering on a bigger scope Steve any thoughts on – because it is so early on the dry Utica what that could mean as far as allocating capital dollars? At this time as you see it for at least the next 12 months the bulk even as I expect as you are about the dry gas the bulk is still going to be in Marcellus and then if so are you continuing to target sort of a concentrated area there or how are you tackling that now? I think our view there Neal is this year will certainly be a year of testing the Utica.
So we’ve drilled our first well.
The second well will be in Wetzel County.
We could potentially drill up to four additional wells this year depending on timing and what we see.
But regardless this year we’ll be testing.
I think a good bit of next year we’ll still be gathering data before we’ll be in a position to even make a decision about reallocating capital between Marcellus and Utica.
And I think the driver there will be regardless of the IPs which clearly our peers have had some pretty impressive IPs we’re certainly hopeful we will as well we need to define what the type curve the decline curve looks like to really understand the economics.
And I think our view is it’ll be a minimum of a year’s worth of actual production data before we’ll have enough comfort to shift any significant amount of capital away from Marcellus into Utica assuming that indications are that the economics are similar or hopefully better.
One last one if I could.
Probably for Dave as far as obviously after the drop down Dave and even prior you guys have if not the best one of the best financial positions out there today certainly in the – not just the East Coast but really in the universe out there.
Acquisition-wise I know you guys continue with Steve and his group continue to look at everything.
Are you open to adding in the East? Would you consider adding another basin? When you look at – I guess I have two questions around this.
Given the financial position are you more apt to do acquisitions these days? And then secondly if so or even if not would you like to stay in the same basins or would you go somewhere else? I don’t think I would characterize our perspective as being more interested in an acquisition because of our financial situation.
We’re executing the transactions we are with the Midstream because we think it’s the best way to create value.
It’s the money as I’ve said multiple times is not burning a hole in our pocket.
With that said we do recognize that this could be an opportunity to acquire and I’d say really in core areas would be the priority if the opportunities presented themselves at values that recognize the depressed commodity price environment.
So I think I kind of answered your second question too which is...
Our next question is from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital.
Specifically could you give us some color on CapEx? Obviously the number has come down and maybe a little bit of color on where you’ve seen the reductions really come in was it backdating contracts with a specific service there? And then as a follow on to that will you be comfortable at any point in time if you do see service costs continue to come down to actually use that money and put it in the ground or do you just feel comfortable enough just building – putting the cash balance at this point? I think the – because the biggest line item in our drilling costs is pumping services that’s what really drives that number more than anything.
I would say a few of our contracts have been backdated a little bit but for the most part most of them have been pulling forward from the time we negotiated the lower costs so most of that is prospective.
The one line item I will comment on in the opposite direction is our rig cost our day rates.
Most of our rigs are under longer term contracts that don’t expire this year.
So we have relatively little leverage in that area.
So our lack of leverage is reflected in that 10% to 15% estimate.
If soft prices continue into next year and the year after we’ll be in a position to benefit from lower rig costs but for now we’re not.
I think our plan right now regarding redeployment of that capital is to keep it on the balance sheet.
We think in this low-price environment and the growth rates we’re expecting we’re in a pretty good spot and don’t feel compelled just because we’ll have some extra money to run out and spend it just because we have it.
So for now it’ll stay on the balance sheet and we’ll revisit that periodically as commodity prices move.
Maybe if I could rephrase the question what price do you think on the forward curve it would take for incremental capital to be spent to start to become interesting? That’s hard to say.
We just really look at the economics.
Actually I would say the one benefit we get though of having the cash on the balance sheet is unlike what we infer is the case of the number of our peers we will obviously have the financial flexibility to revise our programs upward if the economics improve as opposed to if you live in hand to mouth experience where you have to wait until the money starts rolling in.
In our case the money is already there.
So really it is just the judgment about the prospective economics.
But we really haven’t come up with new sense of a magic price at which we would revise upward.
It’s just something that we really look at pretty frequently.
Dave what would you sense your – with these reduced well costs because of services coming down service costs coming down what is the after-tax breakeven price to get a 10% rate of return today on your core acreage? Pat’s already looking to find the right page in the right presentation.
And I probably want to refer you to that because we don’t – as you know I think we don’t just look at it as core acreage.
We tend to differentiate between Southwestern PA versus Northern West Virginia wet Northern West Virginia dry et cetera.
Those are the categories we use.
Pat I’m happy for you to [indiscernible].
Hanold I don’t know what the 10% return would be but if you look at the Southwest PA which is one of the two core areas the other is Northern West Virginia wet.
Southwest PA at $2.50 realized price would give you an 18% after-tax return.
And Southwest – or Northern West Virginia wet would be 24% at $2.50 realized price.
So the returns are still quite good even at today’s prices.
Is that today’s service costs that you’re stating me those numbers on? Yes.
That includes the service cost reductions.
From Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company we have Michael Rowe.
I just wanted to talk to you real quickly about the production guidance change understanding it’s only about 1% increase at the midpoint but has anything changed with respect to completion timing on your 2015 program or wells performing better than expected? I’m just trying to tie your CapEx reduction in February which was activity-driven with the production guidance increase this morning? I think for the most part it’s just driven by – we have one quarter under our belt so the range of possible outcomes narrows with the first quarter being ahead of our original guidance.
So I think that should be expected to be reflected in raising the lower end of guidance up.
So that’s what we did.
I think well performance continues to improve.
So there’s a little bit of that.
But it’s mostly just around certainty having been a quarter of the year in the bag.
You had a good NGL realization relative to WTI at about 46%.
This looks in line with what you experienced in Q1 of last year.
So is it reasonable to assume NGL realization should moderate closer to the low 30s on a percentage basis relative to WTI as we enter Q2 through Q4 of this year? I don’t know that we have a particular view on that.
But when you’re looking at percentages also you do need to be a bit careful to make sure that you’re looking at NGLs the same way.
I mean as you know generally speaking when we’re thinking NGLs we are thinking C3s and above is what we’re actually selling right? The rest of the ethane generally speaking you should assume is being sold as methane.
And there are some folks who are selling ethane as ethane.
They would obviously have a lower percentage if they’re making the calculation that way.
That said I’m not sure that we have a particular forecast any great insight into what is going on in the NGL market any more than anybody else would have.
Maybe one last one if I can just we talked a little bit about type well economics and the updated ones that you all have in your March presentation.
Can you just remind us what the differentials you have baked into those are? Is that just your outlook on basis differentials at that point in time when you ran the calculation? So whenever we show there is IRRs we are using the local price.
So it’s not really taking an assumption of a differential.
It’s the local price.
So if you’re looking at $2.50 local price that could be $3.59 minus $1 dollar diff or $3 and then with minus $0.50.
Operator Our next question is from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Wanted to follow up on the dry gas Utica.
I want to make sure I had that lateral length right so can you just repeat that for us and given the challenge that you had in the drilling portion I wonder if that changes your expectations of costs at least for the drilling portion going forward? The lateral length was 3 300 feet.
And I think our expectation is while we did have a lot of challenges I don’t think it changes our long-term view of the cost other than maybe a little bit on the mud side.
So the mud cost will probably be a bit more expensive since we had to use heavier mud than we would have originally thought.
I think everything else over time there will be a learning curve.
It’ll take us probably several wells to get the costs in line with where we think they’ll be long term.
Maybe the one additional color I’ll add that maybe is on the positive side although right now it’s a theory not practice is on the proppant where – for our first couple of wells we’re going to use ceramic proppant which is quite a bit more expensive than sand.
It looks like it’s going to run about $100 000 per stage or $2.5 million for a typical well to use ceramic versus sand.
Our reservoir engineering at this point is suggesting that it might be possible to use sand in these wells.
So that’ll be something we’re testing probably not in these first two wells but in subsequent wells.
So that’s some positive news from our end in terms of what the long-term development costs for deep Utica will be on our acreage.
I’m sorry just a follow-up to that was that 3 300 feet the original lateral length you had planned? We had planned anywhere from 3 000 to 4 500.
So our internal discussions were we need 3 000 to get the reservoir test we really want which is the purpose of this well we’ll go as far as 4 500.
We had room to but really the guidance to the drilling team was get 3 000 and at that point any hint of a problem and we’re going to call it and TD the well and move on because really the whole goal of this well is to test the reservoir and we can do that with a 3 300-foot lateral.
And so it wasn’t that you had significant drilling issues and that you thought you wouldn’t be able to drill the full lateral length? It was enough to the test the reservoir.
It was.
We had a lot of difficulties on this well and the costs were pretty high.
And when we got to 3 300 feet there were some indications that more problems could be developing.
And we just didn’t want to take – once we had the 3 000 feet we didn’t see any reason to take any additional risk put the well bore at risk where we might not even be able to complete it so that’s when we called it at 3 300.
Okay.
And the last one and then I’ll leave the Utica alone.
Was that $2.5 million incremental completion cost baked into your original well cost estimate? Well our original one yes.
If you look in our investor presentation we have a pretty wide range of $12 million to $17 million.
The $12 million is closer to what we would hope long-term we could do if we can use sand.
And the $17 million is sort of a worst-case scenario with ceramics and accounting for other unknowns.
But yes we did have the $2.5 million in our original thoughts.
Okay.
And then on the Midstream side you guys obviously had a big beat on third-party recoveries.
Can you give us a sense of what portion was related to selling firm that you didn’t need versus other uplift? Sure.
The majority of it was actually moving to higher-priced markets to sell our gas and a smaller percentage was really on the overall capacity because as you know we manage our overall portfolio to maximize our price.
And so our commercial team did an excellent job and they make those decisions daily as to whether to move our product or release the capacity to move to another market.
But overall the whole driver is really the realized price for our production.
From JPMorgan we have Joe Allman.
Just a couple income statement questions I noticed that exploration expense is up.
Is that from dry hole expense or G&amp;A or something else? It’s not dry hole expense it’s some lease impairments in the Permian that Steve talked about.
A small amount of it is also related to the lease impairment in Ohio Utica.
G&amp;A also increased in the Production business can you talk about that? Some of it’s just the natural growth in the Production business but we laid out several expenses and I mentioned in my comments that were I guess you’d call unusual and we’ve adjusted them out in some of the tables in the release this morning.
It was about $13 million of expenses like that related to the rig release in the Permian Basin.
We did take a further impairment on Ohio Utica value and then there were some casing that we won’t be able to use.
That was in casing and we wrote down as well.
So things like that.
And that totaled to about $13 million in the SG&amp;A line.
Lastly just in terms of the rig count and the terms of those rigs you mentioned earlier that you’re not getting the leverage of lower service costs fully because of the longer-term rig contract could you describe the number of rigs and the terms of those contracts? Typically those contracts were three or four-year contracts.
Most of those are one or two years in.
I think we have one or two in 2016 that will come up so those would be the first – that’s the first opportunity we really have to lower those costs.
At this time there are no further questions in our queue.
I’d like to turn things over to our speakers for any closing or additional remarks.
Thank you all for participating and we’ll see you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s presentation.
We appreciate everyone’s participation.
Please stand by.
We're about to begin.
Good day and welcome to the EQT Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Patrick Kane.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Kyle.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation's conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Executive Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a seven-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 p.m.
The telephone number for the replay is 719-457-0820.
The confirmation code is 9281362.
The call will also be available on our website for seven days.
To remind you the results of EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM and EQT GP Holdings ticker EQGP are consolidated in EQT's results.
Earlier this morning there was a separate joint press release issued by EQM and EQGP.
The partnership's conference call at 11:30 – there was a conference call at 11:30 today for the partnerships which require that we take the last question at 11:20 today.
The dial-in number for that call is 913-312-9034 with a confirmation code of 7812066.
Later today we will be updating our analyst presentation on our website to reflect a 5% reduction in cost per well since April 16% year-to-date.
We also updated our base case lateral lengths to better reflect the actual drilling program and made other minor updates.
Under news releases we updated our guidance metrics for 2015 including a modest reduction of our CapEx of approximately $100 million.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT's results; next Steve will have a brief topical update and finally Dave will provide a review of EQGP's IPO including valuation implications.
Following the prepared remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements.
You can find factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today's press release and under risk factors in EQT's Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2014 as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are on file with the SEC and available on our website.
Today's call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning's press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</strong> Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced second quarter 2015 adjusted earnings per diluted share of $0.01 which represents a $0.60 per share decrease from adjusted EPS in the second quarter of 2014.
Adjusted operating cash flow attributable to EQT also decreased by $202.3 million to $80.7 million for the quarter.
Results in the quarter were significantly negatively impacted by lower commodity prices which I will address in a minute.
There were two fairly significant non-cash items that partially offset each other in the adjusted earnings this quarter.
First we recorded non-cash losses on hedges of $25.9 million during the quarter.
The second item was a positive $35.7 million benefit based on IRS guidance on the regulatory ratemaking treatment of a like kind exchange associated with the utility sale which had the effect of favorably distorting the reported effective tax rate for the second quarter.
This tax benefit will reverse either over the life of the assets or upon a taxable disposition such as a future dropdown.
Excluding this tax benefit our year-to-date effective tax rate was 10.5% which is still abnormally low due to an increase in our earnings attributable to the non-controlling unitholders of EQM and EQGP which are not tax affected as well as negative production operating income as a result of lower commodity prices.
As Pat mentioned EQT Midstream Partners and EQT GP Holdings results are consolidated in EQT Corps result.
And EQT recorded $58.2 million of net income attributable to non-controlling interests or $0.38 per diluted share in the second quarter 2015.
Other than that the second quarter was fairly straightforward and I will keep my remarks rather brief.
Starting with EQT Production the story here continues to be growth in sales of produced natural gas although that growth was overshadowed this period by lower commodity prices.
Production sales volume in the recently completed quarter was 34% higher than the second quarter 2014.
Despite that volume growth we recorded a $66.9 million operating loss in the quarter at production including the non-cash losses on hedges of $25.9 million that I just mentioned and that compared to operating income of $113.7 million last year excluding the $31 million gain on the asset exchange in the second quarter of 2014.
So again the significantly lower average realized price more than offset the volume growth.
Operating revenues were $269.5 million excluding the non-cash loss $113.5 million lower than last year's second quarter.
The realized price at EQT production was $1.41 per Mcf equivalent compared to $3 per Mcf equivalent last year.
And you'll find detailed components of the price differences in the tables in this morning's release.
Total operating expenses at EQT Production were $310.5 million or $50.7 million higher quarter-over-quarter.
DD&amp;A was $37.1 million higher.
Transportation and processing expenses were about $11 million higher.
And LOE excluding production taxes were about $3 million higher all consistent with the volume growth.
Exploration expense including $9.4 million of non-cash lease impairments was $4 million higher quarter-over-quarter.
Moving on to the Midstream business operating income here was $108.2 million up 22% over the second quarter of 2014.
This is consistent with the growth of gathered volumes and increased capacity-based transmission revenue.
Gathering net operating revenues increased by 35% to $122.9 million as gathering volumes increased by 35%.
Transmission net revenues increased 19% to $61.1 million as additional firm capacity was added over the past year mostly in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Storage marketing and other net operating revenues were down $4.3 million in the quarter.
Total operating expenses at Midstream were $81.2 million or $10.6 million higher as a result of our continuing growth.
On a per unit basis however G&amp;C expense was down 19% as a result of volumes growing faster than expenses.
Just a brief note on liquidity; EQT had about $2 billion in cash on hand at quarter end excluding the cash on hand at EQM and EQGP as well as full availability under EQT's $1.5 billion credit facility.
So we do remain in a great liquidity position to accomplish our goals for the foreseeable future.
Our current estimate of 2015 EQT operating cash flow is still $900 million adjusted to exclude the non-controlling interest portion of EQM and EQGP's cash flow.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Steve Schlotterbeck.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</strong> Thank you Phil.
Today I'll give you an update on the two topics of interest to investors over the past few months upstream M&amp;A and our deep Utica well.
On the upstream M&amp;A front we've not seen many deals getting done.
It seems that sellers have not changed their value expectations to reflect a natural gas strip that is significantly lower than a year ago.
We continue to believe that there is significant value creation opportunity by consolidating core Marcellus positions into larger more contiguous blocks.
This would not only add to our core Marcellus development inventory but more importantly it would increase the economic value of our existing leasehold by taking advantage of the significant economies of scale of larger multi-well pads and longer laterals.
We also believe that attractive M&amp;A opportunities may present themselves as the effects of the low price environment become more pronounced for companies that entered this cycle with insufficient liquidity.
However we will be patient to ensure that any M&amp;A activity we pursue will create additional value for our shareholders.
Moving on to our dry gas Utica well.
Last week we successfully completed the fracking of this well.
The frac was an 18 stage job in a 3 221 foot lateral that utilized ceramic proppant.
We were able to successfully place 100% of the planned proppant while maintaining our desired pumping rates.
Last night we concluded a 24 hour deliverability test to sales of this well.
During this test the well averaged 72.9 million cubic feet per day with an average flowing casing pressure of 8 641 psi.
This equates to a 24 hour IP per 1 000 foot of lateral of 22.6 million cubic feet per day.
To the best of our knowledge this is the highest reported IP of any Utica well to-date and the per-foot rate is more than double the previous high.
As you might expect we're very pleased with the results of this well.
I want to make note of the fact that we were able to flow this well directly into the sales pipeline without shutting in production from our other wells.
This was possible primarily because of the integrated nature of our Upstream and Midstream businesses.
Our Midstream group was able to reconfigure the gathering system to allow this capacity to be available which likely would not have been possible on a third-party system.
Our current plan is to produce this well to choke controlled rate of approximately 24 million cubic feet per day to manage the stress on the proppant and to monitor the pressure decline so we can begin to get an understanding of the decline profile and EUR potential of this well.
Currently the well is producing 26 million cubic feet per day and approximately 2 000 barrels of frac water per day with flowing casing pressure of 9 555 psi.
In fact the flowing pressure is currently climbing as the well continues to clean up.
In addition we plan to spud another deep Utica test in Wetzel County West Virginia in the third quarter of this year.
Following that test we will evaluate our next steps where we expect to quickly begin focusing on lowering the cost of drilling and completing these wells.
Our current estimate is that wells in this area can be drilled at a total cost of approximately $12.5 million for a 5 400 foot lateral but it will take us several more wells to get fully up the learning curve.
Finally I'd like to take a moment to congratulate all the EQT folks involved in this success.
As you've heard me say before this well was the most technically challenging well we've ever drilled and completed.
Our outstanding team was up to the challenge and has delivered a truly phenomenal well while continuing to maintain a safe and environmentally responsible operation.
I'll now turn the call over to Dave Porges for his comments.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Steve.
I'm going to mainly discuss topics related to EQGP.
But before doing so want to convey my congratulations to Steve and his team for the recently completed Utica well.
They provided me with daily updates that focused on the issues that we're created by the tremendous reservoir pressures we encountered but also made clear their excitement about the possibilities and clearly that excitement was more than justified.
Great job.
Now on to EQT GP Holdings LP or EQGP which completed its initial public offering of 26.5 million units priced at $27 per unit in mid-May.
To remind you of our motivation to take the GP public we were seeking more midstream value transparency for EQT investors.
EQT Corporation owns 90% of EQGP a value of about $7.6 billion or about $50 per EQT share.
This is a pre-tax value and the tax basis is low.
Assuming a 15% cash tax obligation our stake in EQGP is worth about $6.5 billion.
We also still have about $800 million of midstream assets that have yet to be dropped for a total midstream value of $7.3 million.
EQT's market cap is $11.1 billion that was based on last night's close implying a value of EQT production of $3.8 billion.
Using consensus 2016 cash flow estimates of $995 million EQT production is being valued at less than four times cash flow less than half the multiple of our Marcellus peers.
So either we are not getting full value on our stock for our Midstream business or our Production business or a combination of both.
We will focus on our IR effort toward highlighting the value of our company and still anticipate that the transparency provided from a publicly traded GP should start showing up in EQT's stock price.
While the valuation discount creates tension we think having the two businesses together continues to create significant value for both Midstream and Production as evidenced by the relative outperformance of EQT and EQM stocks.
The MLP has provided a significant source of capital to fund development of our Marcellus and Utica acreage.
Those volumes are flowing through the Midstream pipes generating earnings growth at Midstream.
Furthermore matching the deductions generated from the capital investments at Production minimizes the cash tax hit from the dropdowns of Midstream assets to EQM.
More important strategically is that the combined companies also make projects such as the Ohio Valley Connector and the Mountain Valley Pipeline more viable.
This is because the Midstream starts with a significant anchor shipper in the form of EQT Production and EQT Production gets optimally located pipeline projects.
However we recognize that over time as EQT Production's growth rate slows and EQM's third-party growth accelerates the synergies of having the two units together is reduced and the uplift in market value of a separation could exceed the value creation from the synergies.
We are frequently asked about the tax consequences of monetizing our EQGP stake.
So I will summarize the tax impact of a few scenarios we get asked about.
In the event of future sales of EQGP units by EQT up to about $1 billion per year we would be able to use our current year drilling deductions to offset the gain on the sale of units.
We would still expect to incur alternative minimum tax obligation of between 10% and 15%.
Given our cash balance and planned plan dropdown in the first half of next year it is unlikely that we would need to access this source of capital for some time but did want to respond to inquiries about that hypothetical situation.
Given the strong M&amp;A market in the Midstream space we also get asked what would happen in a hypothetical situation in which we sell the entire EQGP stake.
As you likely inferred from my comments on ratable sales a sale of the entire stake would result in a large gain that would overwhelm our drilling deductions.
In that case the proceeds and excess of the available deductions would be subject to a tax greater than 15% but well less than the 35% federal tax rate because of carry backs.
This would be the worst case from a tax leakage perspective though the premium that would be required to make that a viable scenario would offset some or even most of the tax leakage.
Clearly in that scenario we would look for a more tax efficient transaction and would also need to find a way to get that value to EQT shareholders rather than just leave that much cash on the balance sheet.
Finally a tax efficient separation of Midstream from Production is an alternative.
If done properly a separation would not trigger a tax obligation and to answer questions we have received on that scenario we continue to do a lot of work to ensure that we would not inadvertently endanger a tax efficient separation.
So my purpose in this discussion of EQGP was to discuss value transparency and also answer questions related to tax issues.
The Utica results also point toward the need to consider Midstream implications of a potential further shift of the North American natural gas supply mix toward the core Marcellus Utica play.
As Steve alluded to coordination between Upstream and Midstream is even more important if these large Utica wells become a norm.
In addition even or perhaps especially in a low price environment an environment largely created by Marcellus Utica productivity the organic opportunity for Midstream investment in this region grows.
We will continue to focus on gathering and header projects with EQM's announcement this morning of another large investment for Range Resources being the latest example.
We will also continue to look for the occasional complementary takeaway project such as OVC and MVP.
We are not convinced that these growth prospects are fully reflected in the unit prices of EQM or EQGP yet the growth prospects for both EQM and EQGP look even greater in the wake of our enormous Utica well and the great results our neighbors have also been getting in their early Utica wells.
The Utica is not exactly a positive for longer term natural gas prices but it is very much a positive for those of us with core Utica positions and those of us with Midstream assets in this region.
We will sort through these Midstream implications in the coming months and share our thoughts with you in future calls.
In conclusion EQT is committed to increasing the value of our vast resource by intelligently accelerating the monetization of our reserves and other opportunities.
We have a very strong balance sheet which will allow us to continue to be focused on doing what we can to increase the value of your shares.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and appreciate your continued support.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Pat Kane.
Thank you Dave.
This concludes the comments portion of the call.
Kyle can we please open the call for questions? Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Philip Jungwirth from BMO.
Hi.
Good morning.
Can you expand upon the reduction in the 2015 capital budget by $100 million? Is that all E&amp;P that can be attributed to incremental cost deflation because it looks like you spent roughly 60% of the $1.7 billion budget which would imply a second half quarterly run rate of $350 million or so? Or if you're lowering that budget to $1.6 billion a run rate of about $300 million per quarter.
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> No Phil about $25 million to $30 million of that is the E&amp;P because the – some not all the well cost will see the reduction for the full year.
The rest is our Midstream projects that are basically slipping into next year on the gathering side.
Okay great.
And then with the success in the Utica I mean EQT is still spending quite a bit of money in the Upper Devonian which you guys show as a lower return zone.
I think 22% of the spuds this year are going to the Upper Devonian.
Is there a nat gas price where you would rethink that co-development with the Marcellus? And then also how would that compete for capital given the success in Utica? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Phil This is Steve.
I think we've already reassessed our Upper Devonian areas based on the lower gas prices so we'll continue to do that.
There are certain areas at the current prices that make sense.
And I think relative to the Utica while this is clearly a phenomenal well we need to get up the learning curve and get our cost down and get some decline history of this well so we truly understand what the economics are.
I would say the initial data far exceeds our expectation.
So I think that's a very positive sign for the economics of the Utica but we're going to need to drill a few more wells and understand the type curve a lot better before we make any major shifts to our development plan.
Okay great.
And then my last question you highlighted the implied some of the parts multiple for the MP business being roughly half what the publicly traded pure play comps are trading at.
In your view what would you attribute this discount to more? Is that the market view that peers have higher returns greater inventory depth or is it simply a conglomerate discount that won't be unlocked unless there's a full split of the Upstream from Midstream? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> On my basic view this is Dave I'll let Pat answer too though an inadequate investor relations effort.
I would agree with that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But Pat do you – I haven't actually studied why that would be so I'm happy to...
It's very hard to know.
If you start with the Midstream value the Upstream looks cheap.
If you start with an Upstream value then the Midstream looks cheap.
So it seems to be the conglomerate issue.
Great.
Thanks guys.
We'll take our next question from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey.
Thanks guys.
Steve that obviously dry gas Utica well came out at a pretty robust rate and it sounds like you guys are trying to manage it around 26 million cubic feet a day and I know it's really early.
But based on what you've seen from some of the other wells and what you all know from this one I guess in the short timeframe that you've had it online what is your expectation in terms of that mid-20 million cubic feet a day rate? How long could that stay flat and implications on when an EUR just an early-day EUR could look like? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> I think Scott we literally finished the deliverability test last night and the results were quite a bit in excess of our expectation so I think it's a little premature for us to be predicting EURs and even the length of time at the current rate.
We're going to need to study it a little while before we have any reasonable sense of that but I think given the 24 hours we've seen it's a very strong well and the pressures seem to be holding up very well.
So in fact it's still cleaning up so like I mentioned in my comments the pressure's actually still inclining a bit as the water production declines.
So it hasn't even really fully cleaned up yet for us to get a good clean data set.
So I think you're going to have to wait a little while for those kinds of predictions.
Okay.
Can I ask a question on what – when you look at some of the other dry gas Utica wells that have been drilled and what had been your general expectation? You said it exceeded expectation but what was your sense of what EURs can be based on the dozen or so wells that have been drilled with some history in the basin? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well again I don't know that I want to comment on EURs of competitors' wells.
I think you can refer to what they thought.
What I will say is we had set up to flow this well at 60 million cubic feet a day and to be honest I thought that was a bit insane.
I didn't expect that from this short lateral.
We had some extra units out there in case of mechanical problems and once we saw what this well was capable of those backups became primary units.
So that we could go above the 60 million cubic feet a day and frankly we were struggling to hold this well back at those rates.
So it definitely was – we were expecting a good result setting up for 60 million cubic feet a day and then the see these rates with even higher pressures than we expected which means lower drawdown so we didn't have to pull on this well very hard at all to get those rates.
That makes us have to go back and reassess what's better about this what's better about the reservoir than we expected.
Do we have the right gas in place numbers or is there more gas in place.
So it's premature really to comment on any of that given less than two days of production data on one well.
In the Wetzel County well that you all will be drilling what is the relative depth to that compared to what this one was at? Is it (26:30) President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> It's similar.
It's a similar depth.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> It's similar.
It's in that 13 000 foot to 14 000 foot range.
Okay.
Okay.
And I guess my next line of questioning is you had a lot of frac stages I guess that weren't online at the end of this quarter.
Could you give us a general discussion on why that number was so high at the end of the quarter and what we should expect in the coming I guess quarter or two? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Sure.
Same answer I give every call.
That's completely driven by timing of multi-well pads and long laterals with lots of stages.
What I will tell you that I really haven't provided on future calls is we expect an increase as the year goes on in number of stages we're turning in line per quarter with the fourth quarter of this year being the highest for the year which will drive production results in early 2016 but it's strictly driven by the timing of rig moves on big pads.
Okay.
And just so I understand that right so like if there was a multi-well pad there you're going to complete a certain amount of those wells but that pad may not be timed correctly to get it online by the end of the quarter but it would be for example in early July and so those would come online a little bit later.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Exactly.
Yeah.
Okay.
Understood.
Thanks a lot guys.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> You bet.
We'll take our next question from Holly Stuart from Howard Weil.
Good morning gentlemen.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Morning.
So Dave I appreciate the comments on the valuation discrepancy.
It sounds like as you get Pat working harder this discrepancy will erode over time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> He said it was the sell side that had to step up just so you know.
You guys have certainly not been ones to sit on your hands.
So I guess I'll leave that discussion there.
Maybe bigger picture on 2016 thoughts maybe just kind of thinking similar commodity levels commodity price levels how does your activity change maybe from this year to next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We'll have to take a look at that in the normal course of events.
We do try to be influenced more given the lags of the wells by the longer-term strip something that will match when the gas is actually getting sold.
And of course one of the things that's going on in the basin right now is that supply is outstripping for the time being takeaway capacity.
But a number of projects our projects I mean EQM projects as well as other midstream companies' projects are coming online over the course of the next couple of years.
And that at least will help with that.
But clearly we will have to relook at activity level and where we allocate resources.
As Steve mentioned it's very early with the Utica to figure out what the implications are but if we keep getting these kinds of results and our peers keep getting these kinds of results then I do think we have to assume that that's going to shift the supply demand balance again which will mean that some places probably don't make sense to develop.
It will probably mean that the Marcellus Utica though in future would make up an even higher percentage of the overall mix and we'd have to take that into account the overall country.
The North America's supply mix and we'll have to take that into account also.
So clearly we have to be working all of that in ahead of coming up with a budget for 2016.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then maybe Dave just one other kind of bigger picture question on the cash.
I look back through notes from I guess the end of the year and you kind of said financial stress makes you want to keep more cash on the balance sheet and come out stronger on the other side.
Assuming things haven't changed in that line of thinking but any color there would be helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's exactly right.
Still wearing the fired retardant pants so that it doesn't burn a hole in our pockets.
But look as Steve mentioned if there's opportunities especially on the Upstream side to enhance our current acreage position then that's great.
We want to be prepared to take advantage of that.
But this is one of those times where I'm geez after the last three months I think just for the whole sector we'd probably say no one would feel bad about having the liquidity position that we've got.
And if anything I think we feel better about it and I'm guessing we will get fewer questions about what we're going to do with all that cash because of this environment.
That it just means that we're able to make decisions that we think are the right economic decisions for our shareholders rather than being overly influenced by near-term liquidity matters.
Yep.
Perfect.
And then just maybe one final minutia question.
On the NGL realizations I'm assuming no change to the barrel there.
We're still rejecting ethane? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yes.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Oh yeah.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You know for years our view or at least my view has been getting heat value for ethane is on a netback basis not a bad deal versus the alternative.
And I got to tell you nothing's happened in 2015 that would have changed my mind on that.
Yep.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
We'll take our next question from Michael Hall from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just wanted to come at I guess the Utica question on maybe a little bit different way as it relates to competitiveness within the inventory.
What sort of EUR level given a $12.5 million development cost would compete with the Marcellus in your thinking? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Again I'm going to pass on answering that question because it's not just – it's not based on EURs it's based on the decline profile of the well and with 24 hours of data we just don't know.
So it's going to take some time.
Fair enough.
Worth a shot.
I guess somewhat similar to some of the questions I think that have been asked.
But I don't think it's been asked.
Are you all curtailing any material amounts of production? You have a lot of wells come on in the quarter but gas production was relatively flat.
Just appears you're curtaining much in the way...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No operational issues but...
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah nothing nothing in beyond that is just a normal day-to-day operations that's that's likely due to the fact and a lot of those stages came on late in the quarter and just didn't have time to contribute.
Yeah that would make sense for the third quarter guidance.
Okay and then I guess the netback to EQT production after working through the fixed more fixed type Midstream costs has fallen quite a bit quarter-on-quarter and obviously year-on-year even more so.
How sensitive is the second half program to prices given the fixed cost nature of some of the cost structure? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
There was a second half of the program isn't really sensitive to near term spot prices.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We always again evaluate based on what the strip is going to be because there's nothing we will do in the second half that would result in revenues in 2015.
Really at this point probably there's nothing we do going forward that's going to result in much in the way of revenues before the second half of 2016 just because of the lags involved.
So that's really more what we follow is what's happening.
And we do recognize the strip has declined.
But the other issues on the seasonality with basis has been probably a bigger deal and that's going to be – so we do time some of these activities to when takeaway projects are going to be coming online.
Yeah I guess that's what I was getting at was more the strip level and if the strip falls more materially...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah you could always absolutely always re-access what the economics look like absolutely.
Okay.
And then as I think about the G&amp;P the EQT Midstream cost as well as the G&amp;P to third parties how should we just from a high level modeling standpoint think about those on a per-unit basis call it over the next 18 months? Are there any general pressures one way or the other that we ought to keep in mind? Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah they're pretty – been pretty steady.
They move a little bit Michael.
Later today we'll put out updated guidance for the rest of 2015 and you'll see that the second quarter numbers are consistent with that.
Okay.
Sounds great.
Appreciate it.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning guys.
Say great well.
Say Steve I'm just wondering on the 400 I think on the slide it shows that 400 000 potential dry gas Utica acres.
What's your thought as far as fully delineating that or will you just sort of stick to this call it – I don't want to call a core yet because you don't really know yet where the core is but we stick to a concentrated area.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah I think our plan will be to drill the Wetzel County West Virginia well later this year and that we believe both our current well and that well geologically should be very similar so we think that.
And we think between those two wells and the acreage that they will delineate we will have delineated plenty given what these wells will produce.
And then we'll likely rather than focus on delineating the extent of the play we'll be focused more on cost reductions and efficiencies on the drilling and completion side and probably let our competitors do a little more of defining the limits of the play.
So I think you'll see most of our drilling concentrated in that southwestern PA northern West Virginia corridor where we think we have some really excellent Utica rock.
Inc.</span></strong> Steve with just the two wells (37:54) on the slide deck I think in your last update you mentioned maybe about five or so dry Utica wells this year.
The plan just for the two this year now? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah.
I think there's a chance we will spud a third late in the year.
We'll have to see on timing.
I think our plan is since – the real economic key at this point appears to not be the reservoir.
It appears to be the cost to drill and complete.
So we don't want to go too fast so that we have the opportunity to learn lessons from each well we drill.
So for the meantime we'll probably be drilling one well sequentially rather than doubling up rigs and so that we can get full benefit from what we learn on each well.
So a well in the third quarter depending on timing of that we may – around the end of the year would probably be another well.
Maybe it'll be late this year or early next year.
And then depending on how we progress up that learning curve and what the economics look like and the decline curves look like that's when we'll know when it's time to accelerate or really what the plan is.
Inc.</span></strong> It was just first one or just this latest one.
I shouldn't say first was 100% ceramic used on it? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well we used some 100 mesh sand in the first part of each stage but for all of the large size proppant was 100% ceramic.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then you think you'll be able to on the same pad do Marcellus and Utica? And maybe probably too early to ask about stacked laterals but just will you be able to put them on the same pad do you think? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah.
That's our intent.
Yeah this well is on a existing Marcellus pad.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then just last overall question maybe for Dave just now you continue to have this massive Midstream obviously value that you were talking about there.
Does that encourage you to maybe increase the speed at which you do some dropdowns or really that doesn't change your thought process today about how quickly you continue to drop some of the those things down? Again you certainly have a phenomenally large position and even now with EQM with the news out this morning new pipe there are lot of things going on over there as well just your thoughts on the size and maybe the speed of the dropdowns.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think we've kind of moved a little bit past where it's mainly a dropdown story.
I see EQM as being more of an organic growth story and I agree with you the agreement to build out that system for that – pretty sizable system for Range Resources is a good example of that.
And that is happening all at the EQM level.
We haven't updated our guidance or even our thought process yet about whether we've got one more or a couple of more drops and we've alluded to how much value cash flow et cetera we have remaining at EQT and we do continue to invest a little bit at the EQT level in some of that.
But generally speaking you should be thinking about this as being organic growth at EQM and incidentally I'll volunteer that from an economics perspective since we are into the high splits it winds up being most value accretive all the way around to focus on organic projects rather than say acquisitions or things like that.
And that includes with the dropdown.
So we will drop what remains but the focus at EQM is to create value through pursuing these organic opportunities and again that's as you're seeing we're going to – we're trying to grow our market share.
That's what that Range Resources deal shows to provide services to other producers.
And I think the Utica's going to open up even more opportunities for EQM.
Inc.</span></strong> That's – I'd agree with you.
Thanks guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
We will take our next question from Sameer Uplenchwar with GMP Securities.
Good morning gentlemen.
My question relates to service costs and operating efficiencies.
Since the start of 2015 you've already seen like 16%.
That's what I think Pat said on the call 16% deflation in cost and that is I'm guessing is both high grading of the fleet and labor and also drilling core acreage.
I'm just trying to figure out on a long-term basis how much of this do you think is sustainable where you can hold onto some of these lower costs and hold onto the labor and the fleets.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well I think actually that 16% is driven strictly by renegotiated service contracts so there's no drilling efficiencies or any other factors in that 16%.
Any of those factors would be over and above that.
I think the reality of service cost reductions is they're not very sticky.
If gas prices ramp back up which I'm not expecting any time soon but if they would I think we'd likely be faced with service cost increases.
So they tend to move with gas prices and operating levels.
Got it.
Thanks.
And on the cash side of the equation I know you have answered all the questions pretty well.
What I'm trying to understand is you want to hold onto that cash as a dry powder safety net but how long do you want to do that? At what point in time do you decide that we could do a buyback we could do a dividend growth or something along those lines if the bid-ask spreads continues to remain wide? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We continue to – we reassess that I'd say periodically.
So that'll also factor in with drop schedules and the capital budget and things like that as we look later in the year.
So the next time we take a real serious look at that and this is really kind of starting now is that they'll run up to the capital budget the annual plan and capital budget for the coming year.
So that'll cause a pretty deep dive on some of those things.
Got it.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Drew Venker from Morgan Stanley.
Good morning everyone.
I was hoping you could give us a little more color on the Utica well cost for that first well.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah Drew.
It was – we don't have the final numbers yet but it's going to be right around $30 million and if you recall we had some pretty significant issues dealing with the extremely high reservoir pressure.
So it was pretty expensive.
Right.
So you cited this $12.5 million target.
What are the primary cost items that you're trying to reduce? Is this just rig time with the rig outside or completion time? Anything else that's a big component? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> A lot of all of that.
So the rig time was long the completion time was long.
There's lots of opportunity for improvement which is why there's such a big gap between the cost of this first well and what we think these should be able to be drilled for.
So like anything new there's a learning curve.
I think we'll be able to get up it pretty quick.
Just I would expect our next well would be substantially less expensive than this first well.
But it's probably going to take several wells for us to approach that $12.5 million number.
Okay.
And then you said you probably will split another two or three wells this year? Did I have that right? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> No.
One more I'd say for sure and the possibility of a third very late in the year.
It might hit this year might hit next year.
Okay.
Would you think we'd have results from that Wetzel County well this year? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Oh no.
I doubt it.
You doubt it? Okay.
And then so the plan for drilling in 2016 is really predicated on results from your next couple wells.
Is that fair? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah probably as much predicated on how this current well performs.
So we'll be watching it for the next few months.
That'll start to give us a first read on decline rates in EURs.
At this point all we really know is the productivity of the well or the deliverability which again was exceptionally high but we need to see how it holds up to really understand the economics and what this really means.
Okay.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> But it's a good place to start.
Yeah that was a very impressive well.
And then I was thinking about the spending plan for next year.
I know it's too early for guidance probably (46:47) but have you guys run some sensitivities on what kind of spending you think would be reasonable if the strip proves to be about right for next year or any (46:56) you could throw out? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We actually look at that as we get into the autumn.
So this is the time of the year we're probably least likely to do that type of back of the envelope sensitivity because we're into the normal run up to our typical process and we will – you'll be doing that in some depth as we move into through third quarter into the beginning of the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And Dave as you mentioned potentially splitting or at least hypothetically splitting the production segment for the Midstream segment.
Is this something you're looking at doing in the near-term future? Because I think we probably hear a lot of the same frustration that your investors communicate to you that they really see a lot of value in both pieces and they don't feel like it's fairly reflected in the stock price.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'd just say that we are always focused and I think over the course of the time that I've been here this company has prided itself and I think it's reasonably so on being focused on creating shareholder value.
So I just leave it at that that we just want to figure out the best way to create shareholder value over time.
Okay.
Fair enough Dave.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
And we will take our final question from Daniel Guffey with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
On your second Wetzel County or on your first Wetzel County well second Utica well first was around 3 200 feet on the lateral.
What's the length of your second well? And do you have an AFE on that yet? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> I don't know.
Well we don't have an AFE on it yet.
I don't know the projected lateral length.
I'm sure we will try to drill it longer than the 3 100 feet or 3 200 feet but I don't know the exact length.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then you made a comment after drilling the Wetzel County well you'll have plenty of acreage that's the de-risked.
Care to throw an initial estimate on how much you think will be delineated after that second well? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well maybe not that but I will say that this first well gives us a high level of geologic and deliverability certainly around at least 50 000 acres.
So there's 50 000 acres we think looks identical to this without getting too far away from this.
We think Wetzel County looks similar but that's getting pretty distant and is not included in that number.
But that gives you sort of an estimate of I'd say our certainty level has gone way up on at least 50 000 acres just with this first well.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then final one from me 16% decline in cost since year end and you gave some detail in terms of those potentially not being sticky but I'm curious as we head into the second half this year how much capacity do you think you have for further cost reductions? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> That's always hard to project.
In April I think when we announced our first set of cost reductions we had gone through all of our suppliers and gotten what we thought we could at the time but continued to work at it and now have announced another 5%.
I don't know if there's another 5% or not but I can tell you we're going to continue to keep working at it.
So a lot depends on what happens in the market what gas prices do what activity levels do but we're going to keep trying to squeeze a little bit more.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Fantastic.
Thanks for all the color guys.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Pat Kane for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you and thank you everybody for participating.
And this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the EQT Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
And after today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Patrick Kane Chief Investor Relations Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Jennifer.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation's conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges President and Chief Executive Officer; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Randy Crawford Senior Vice President and President of Midstream and Commercial; and Steve Schlotterbeck Executive Vice President and President of Exploration and Production.
This call will be replayed for a seven-day period beginning at approximately 1:30 today.
The telephone number for the replay is 719-457-0820.
The confirmation code is 868-2699.
The call will also be replayed for seven days on our website.
To remind you the results of EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM and EQGP Holdings ticker EQGP are consolidated in EQT's results.
Earlier this morning there were separate joint press release issued by EQM and EQGP.
The partnership's conference call is at 11:30 AM today which requires that we take the last question at 11:20.
The dial-in number for that call is 913-312-9034.
The confirmation code is 215-7781.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT's results.
Next Steve will have a brief Utica update.
Finally Dave will provide preliminary thoughts on EQT's 2016 capital budget.
Following their prepared remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements.
You can find factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today's press release under risk factors in EQT's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which are on file at the SEC and available on our website.
Today's call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning's press release for important disclosures regarding such financial measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measure.
Before turning the call over to Phil I'll walk you through one of the non-GAAP reconciliations that caused some confusion last quarter specifically production adjusted net operating revenue presented on page seven of today's release.
This number is used as a basis for calculating our average realized sales price as presented on the price reconciliation included in this morning's release.
The average realized price is calculated by dividing the adjusted net operating revenue by total sales volumes.
There is a non-GAAP reconciliation in the release that I will briefly explain.
We are making two adjustments to EQT Production total operating revenues as reported on the segment page in order to provide you with operating revenues excluding the non-cash impact of derivatives and the net of transportation and processing costs.
With respect to derivatives adjustments for non-cash derivative activity have been the subject of SEC comments over the past couple of years.
As a result in accordance with what appears to be the SEC preference in this area we adjust out the non-cash activity in three steps.
First we back up all gains and losses on derivatives not designated as hedges that were included in revenues during the period which is the mark-to-market impact which was $160.5 million this quarter.
Two we add back the actual cash received $33.2 million and deducted premiums paid for derivatives that settled during the quarter which was $1 million.
This leaves us with just the actual cash received net of any premiums paid in our adjusted revenue number.
The final adjustment on our non-GAAP reconciliation simply reduces the total operating revenues by $64.7 million of cost reported as expense on EQT Production segment page for transportation and processing.
This provides a realized price net of transportation and processing cost which is consistent with our historic presentation.
With that I'll turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read the press release this morning EQT announced the third quarter 2015 adjusted loss of $0.33 per diluted share which represents an $0.83 per share decrease from adjusted EPS in the third quarter of 2014.
Adjusted operating cash flow was $156.3 million in the quarter or 46% lower than the third quarter of 2014.
Results for the quarter were negatively impacted by lower commodity prices due to lower strip prices since the last quarter.
We also recorded a significant non-cash gain on hedges of future production of $128.3 million during the quarter and that was some of the stuff that Pat just talked about and that's excluded from the adjusted earnings and cash flow.
I'd like to briefly take a look at our continuing investment in the recently IPO'ed EQGP.
On October 20 2015 EQGP announced a cash distribution to its unit holders of $0.104 per unit for the third quarter of 2015 or a 13% increase over the equivalent full quarter distribution in the second quarter of 2015.
The third quarter distribution decision represents $24.9 million in payments which EQT will receive on November 23.
These quarterly payments will continue to grow as distributions at EQGP grow and they highlight the value of EQGP to EQT.
The operational results were fairly straightforward in the third quarter so I'll move right into the segment results and I will be brief.
First EQT Production continued to grow production sales volumes by 27% compared to the third quarter of 2014.
However revenues from that growth were more than offset by the lower commodity prices negatively impacting results in the third quarter.
The average realized price at EQT Production was $1.21 per Mcf equivalent a 55% decrease from $2.69 per Mcf equivalent last year which led to adjusted operating revenues for the quarter of $188.5 million or $142.5 million lower than last year's third quarter.
There were many factors that led to the lower price but lower NYMEX and liquids prices versus last year were the primary drivers.
You will find the detailed components of the price differences in the tables in this morning's release.
The adjusted operating loss at EQT Production was $72 million excluding the non-cash gain on hedges of $128.3 million as I just mentioned.
That compares to adjusted operating income of $107.9 million in the third quarter of 2014 and that was also excluding a non-cash gain on hedges.
Total operating expenses at EQT Production were $325.2 million or $53.5 million higher compared to the third quarter 2014.
DD&amp;A was $30.2 million higher transportation and processing expense was about $16 million higher exploration expense was $4.6 million higher and LOE excluding production taxes was about $1.6 million higher all consistent with the volume growth.
Production tax decreased by $3 million due to lower commodity prices in the period.
SG&amp;A expense excluding $3.5 million in rig release penalties was about $0.5 million higher.
Midstream results.
Here the operating income was up 21%.
The increase is consistent with the growth of gathered volumes and increased fixed capacity-based transmission charges.
Gathering revenues increased 23% to $125.9 million in the third quarter of 2015 primarily due to a 24% increase in gathered volumes.
Transmission revenues for the third quarter 2015 increased by $6.9 million or 12% driven by additional firm-contracted capacity added over the past year.
Operating expenses at Midstream for the third quarter of $82.2 million were about $9.4 million higher than last year consistent with the growth in the Midstream business.
And just to conclude with a brief note on liquidity EQT did have $1.7 billion of cash on hand at quarter-end not including cash at EQM and EQGP as well as full availability under EQT's $1.5 billion credit facility.
So we remain in a strong liquidity position to accomplish our goals for the foreseeable future.
Our current estimate of 2015 EQT operating cash flow is $900 million adjusted to exclude the non-controlling interest portion of EQM and EQGP's cash flow.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Phil.
Today I'll provide you an update on our deep Utica well program.
As discussed on the last call we completed our first deep Utica well in July the Scotts Run 591340.
To remind you the well's initial 24-hour flow was 72.9 million cubic feet with an average flowing casing pressure of 8 641 psi.
We've been flowing this well directly into the sales pipeline at a choke-restricted rate of about 30 million cubic feet per day.
Except for the seven days required to install the wellhead equipment daily sales have been steady at this rate.
Casing pressure has been declining at an average of 40 psi per day.
As of yesterday sales volumes were 30.4 million cubic feet per day and the casing pressure was 6 320 psi.
Cumulative production from this well has totaled 2.6 Bcf in the first 86 days of production.
Our expectation is that the daily production rate will not decline until the well pressure declines to the pipeline pressure which is 500 psi.
Based on an extrapolation of the current pressure decline rate we estimate that we'll reach line pressure after approximately eight months of production which will be at late March 2016.
The cumulative production at that time would be approximately 7.4 Bcf.
At that point we have a wide range of possible decline curves as we do not have any analogous decline data to rely on.
Our current reservoir modeling suggests an ultimate expected recovery for this well in a range between 13.9 Bcf and 18.8 Bcf or a range of 4.3 Bcf to 5.9 Bcf per thousand foot of lateral.
Using the lowest EUR of our range and assuming the high end of our cost per well target of between $12.5 million and $14 million per well we estimate returns at a $2 wellhead gas price to be north of 20% for a 5 400 foot lateral well.
Since the last call we have exploit two additional Utica wells.
In August we exploit the second Greene County well the Pettit #593066 which is located approximately five miles northeast of the Scotts Run well.
They're currently at a depth of 12 200 feet and we installed the intermediate casing.
We're just beginning to drill a curve on this well and expect this well to be in line before the end of the mid-year.
The third well was spud in September in Wetzel County West Virginia the Big 190 well and is located approximately 30 miles southwest of the Scotts Run well.
We reached TD of the deep intermediate hole.
The top hole rig has been moved off the well and the well is secured awaiting the Big rig to run the intermediate casing.
The rest of the drilling will be completed when the Greene County rig is finished with the Pettit well and that rig is moved to West Virginia later this year.
We're making good progress on cost reductions for these wells.
Specifically at the current depth of the Pettit well we spend approximately 22% less than we did on the Scotts Run well at the same point.
As I previously noted we expected to take several wells for us to achieve our cost target for these wells of between $12.5 million and $14 million.
We are pleased with our progress so far and remain confident that we will achieve our targeted cost.
We will continue to post well data from the Scotts Run well on our analyst presentation periodically and we'll update you on the progress of the latest two wells as warranted.
I will now turn the call over to Dave Porges for his initial thoughts for next year's capital budget.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Today the topic of my prepared remarks as Steve mentioned is our preliminary thinking regarding EQT's 2016 capital budget.
We met with our board last week to discuss our long-term strategy as we do every October.
We will then meet in early December to approve the upcoming year's operating plan and capital budget.
A key aspect of the discussion in last week's meeting was the impact of the emerging deep Utica play on EQT's strategy.
There have been fewer than 10 wells drilled and completed in the deep Utica around our acreage so it is still too early to be confident that the play will be economic but the early results are certainly encouraging.
Specifically if the Utica does work which for us means that the returns are better than returns from the core Marcellus we will certainly add significant resource potential to our inventory.
However the clearing price for natural gas will likely be lower in that scenario than if the Utica is less economic.
As a result some of our other inventory that requires higher prices to make economic returns would be deferred possibly for many years.
So while those of us certainly including EQT who have significant position in the core of the deep Utica will be the winners if you will the cannibalization of other opportunities will affect everyone including those of us who will net-net be much better off if the deep Utica play does work economically.
Given this potential for lower long-term gas prices we do not think it's prudent to invest much money in wells whose all-in after-tax returns exceed our investment hurdle rates by only a relatively small amount.
As a result we are suspending drilling in those areas such as Central Pennsylvania and Upper Devonian play that are outside that core.
This decision will affect our 2016 capital plan though we are just starting to develop the specifics of the 2016 drilling program that forms the core of that plan.
The focus in 2016 will be on this more narrowly-drawn notion of what the core Marcellus would be assuming the deep Utica play works.
We will also pursue the deep Utica play with a goal of determining economics size of resource that midstream needs and on lowering the cost per well to our target range.
Our initial thoughts are a 10 well to 15-well deep Utica program in 2016 with flexibility to shift capital between Marcellus and Utica as warranted based on our progress.
Our preliminary estimate for production volume growth in 2016 versus 2015 is 15% to 20% which we will refine when we announce our formal development plan at early December.
If we turn in line our fourth quarter wells in late December as contemplated in our fourth quarter guidance 2016 growth would likely be near the upper end of that range as those wells would contribute little if anything to volumes until early 2016.
Obviously this overall approach will result in a 2016 capital budget absent any acquisitions that is a fair bit lower than 2015 and would result in continuing (16:28) of cash on hand as of end 2016 but we will provide specifics in December.
Another strategic implication of an economic deep Utica play is the significant opportunity for EQM.
A year ago it would have been hard to imagine a more prolific play than the Marcellus.
And EQM has already announced the $3 billion backlog of midstream in projects to serve the Marcellus play.
Incidentally that entire current backlog continues to make sense if the deep Utica proves economic as it either supports core Marcellus or takeaway projects that are needed regardless of the source rock for the natural gas.
However if the deep Utica works it is likely to be larger than the Marcellus over time.
The magnitude of incremental takeaway and gathering pipeline such as a play would support is significant even net of the previously mentioned reductions in Marcellus development that would occur in this scenario.
As we think about the EQT corporate structure we are not likely to make any major decisions to change to current integrated model until we do understand the scope of a potential deep Utica development program.
We have reaped much value in recent years from having the two businesses together and there is the potential that both companies would continue to benefit from the synergies into the dawn of the Utica era.
Finally the deep Utica potential has also affected our thoughts around acreage acquisitions.
Given our view that our existing acreage sits on what is expected to be the core of the core in deep Utica we are focusing our area of interest even more tightly on acreage that is in our core Marcellus and potentially core deep Utica area.
As you can probably deduce from the lack of significant transaction announcements the bid/ask spread continues to be wide.
We are a patient company and believe that there will be acreage available at fair prices eventually.
But the definition of fair has to contemplate the potential that the deep Utica works.
We do not think that bodes well for that price of acreage concentrated in anything but the core Marcellus and core Utica.
This narrowing focus also suggests that smaller asset deals are much more likely than larger corporate deals.
However as we have stated previously we are comfortable maintaining our industry-leading balance sheet even as we look for opportunities to create value.
In conclusion EQT is committed to increasing the value of your shares.
We look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders and appreciate your continued support.
With that I will turn the call back over to Pat Kane.
Thank you Dave.
Jennifer we're ready to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Neal Dingmann from SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning gentlemen.
Dave just on that last part that you mentioned on the M&amp;A your thoughts and I would agree on the strong obviously position you have in that deep Utica.
Are you and Steve thinking more bolt-on in that area? Are there some big packages you see? Anything else you could add about what you're kind of looking at in regard to M&amp;A in that area? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Steve has been closer to that.
I will let him answer that question.
Sure.
Neal we're – our primary focus in terms of looking at acquisitions is really focused on a pretty narrow core area.
And we'll be updating our Investor Presentation later today and you'll see a map that shows kind of the area most of interest to us where we'll be focusing our development program as well as any M&amp;A activity that we'd be interested in.
So right now it seems like there's – people are interested in selling assets.
So far the prices have still been a bit high.
But as Dave said we plan on being patient waiting for what we would consider fair prices before we transact.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And then the 10 to 15 wells you mentioned Steve in the deep Utica your thoughts how far north – I mean you've got obviously some interesting acreage all the way up in the Allegheny and given how successful CNX is obviously their Gott well was all the way clear up into Westmoreland.
Just your thoughts on – any ideas you can give us on those 10 wells to 15 wells? Will most of those be focused down around that Greene County area or would you take them all the way up to potentially as north as Allegheny? Well we haven't spotted all of those 10 wells to 15 wells.
So it will depend on the results we see.
But I would say certainly into Southern Allegheny County where we have a pretty significant position and high expectations for the Utica maybe up into the Northern Allegheny but more likely it would be for us Southwestern Armstrong where we have an acreage position.
I think our view would probably be we'll let others define that area.
Part of the reason would be more limited takeaway capacity up there so probably not going to be in a big hurry to drill some of these monster wells up there probably more focused from Southern Allegheny down into Southern Wetzel and maybe a bit over into far western Marion County.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And then just the last question.
Just on takeaway for the dry gas.
Dave at one time Dave you thought – I think you commented that really the only limitation might be just takeaway as far and maybe given how successful these wells and how economic these wells look.
If you and Steve can talk about is that – again does that have limitations to how many wells you drill next year or by some point next year you'll have ample Utica takeaway? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Geez I think these – if the early results continue to show up – if we see things consistent with those early results in future wells I think we're probably going to be looking at takeaway limitations for a while.
I mean I think these wells can probably support volumes that the midstream wasn't really designed for and it's – I mean we'll probably let Randy speak to this but it would- it's going to take a little while probably to figure out what the right midstream configuration is for the deep Utica.
Randy do you have any thoughts on that? No.
I concur.
Obviously we've been trying to stay out in front of the Marcellus and we've looked at our Ohio Valley Connector that's coming on.
But I would also say we're looking at Jupiter system and how we can leverage that and the infrastructure that we have in Equitrans.
So I think we're best positioned to move a little bit of the product.
But certainly these wells are quite exciting and so that will take a lot of additional infrastructure as we develop the play.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Now we do think incidentally that the cost per unit is going to be considerably less than it is for the Marcellus because of the higher volumes and frankly the more concentrated nature of it.
I mean it's not just higher volumes.
It's that you can get it from a tighter area.
That's a much better answer from the perspective of unit gathering and compression costs.
Actually the compression cost early on is going to probably be a round number.
Zero.
Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Again thanks guys.
Great details.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Phillip Jungwirth from BMO.
Hey.
Good morning.
Couple of questions on Utica well costs.
First wondering if you could provide us with the AFE for the second Greene County and first Wetzel County Utica wells.
And then second your targeted well cost imply about $2 500 per foot which I know it compares to some of the smaller peers over in Belmont and Monroe County who are quoting $1 200 to $1 500 per foot.
Obviously the Pennsylvania Utica is 13 000 feet compared to 10 000.
But do you think that deeper depth at higher pressures would account for all of this difference or could there be further room to bring costs down as you progress through development? Phil this is Steve.
I think – I guess regarding the AFEs I don't have the exact numbers in front of me but they're in the low-$17 millions per well.
That cost will be dependent on the ultimate lateral length so we have some flexibility about how long we end up drilling these.
So I wouldn't put a whole lot of weight on those numbers.
But a significant decrease from the actual costs from our first well which was around $30 million.
And the second part of your question remind me again.
Oh the cost per foot? I think our view is that when we sit down and do a bottoms-up analysis of what we think it should cost to drill these wells once you work through all of the problems and get the non-productive time down to a minimum that that's where we come up with that $12.5 million.
So I think at current service costs never say never but we don't see a path to being significantly less than that for these wells.
And I think the $14 million gives us some room to have a few unexpected problems that maybe we wouldn't normally have on Marcellus wells which is why we're quoting a range right now.
But our hope is to get it at the bottom end of that range but very confident we'll get within the top end.
Okay.
Great.
Yeah.
Looks like based on the EUR math that the implied F&amp;D is already pretty comparable to what you're seeing in the Marcellus.
Second question is on the last call you had mentioned how EQM is now more of an organic growth story.
But with the narrowing of Marcellus development in 2016 and beyond how would this impact future dropdowns given that most of the gathering of transmission assets held by EQT appear to be outside of the core Southwest PA and Northwest Virginia area? Well we're still working through what we want to do with future drops.
But the comment about what's most economic for EQM is kind of independent of that.
EQM is not well as you know into the high splits.
And it's just more economical for an MLP to organically develop projects than to have to pay up as long as it can afford it as long as it's got the coverage that allows it to wear that period of time when that got assets tied up in projects that aren't generating cash flow.
So we'll have to work through what happens with the remaining projects et cetera as we go through 2016.
But my comments in the past about organic growth being the preference is just because of the way it works when you've got all of that incremental cash flow going to the GP.
Right.
And then historically EQT has always pre-funded the following year's cash flow outspend with asset sales or dropdown.
Would this also be the intention in 2016 or do you consider the $1.7 billion in cash on the balance sheet as having already accomplished that given I think you mentioned that you held cash as of year-end 2016? A – [009Z0W-E Steve Schlotterbeck]&gt;: I basically said we've already accomplished that.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thank you and we'll go next to Michael Hall from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I guess I just wanted to touch a little bit on the backlog kind of get your updated thoughts around how that progresses over time if that materially year-on-year continued to grow sequentially? And just trying to think through kind of what the strategy is there when you think that this ever would ultimately be drawn down and how's that contemplated in the 2016 plan? Yeah Michael.
This is Steve.
Yeah.
The backlog in terms of frac stages complete but not online grew a bit this quarter as you saw.
Our expectation is that the fourth quarter will be a pretty big quarter for new TILs.
Most of those will be in the back half of the quarter so it won't affect volumes in the quarter very much but should be coming on late.
So I think you will see a fairly significant drop back to more historic levels when we – on the next call when we're talking about Q4.
Okay.
And so is there is any thought process of continuing to draw that down even further in 2016 or is that moving in following quarters kind of do you think that could to a place where you're more kind of at a run rate (29:37).
I think that will be more the typical run rate.
If you look back over our history you go back two three years or so I think we've been giving these numbers you'll see it's always very lumpy.
The biggest driver behind that backlog is just the timing of the rigs and the number of wells and the number of fracs per well for every pad we are on.
So it tends to be very lumpy.
Right now we haven't been taking any heroic efforts to get wells online superfast.
So that maybe drives the backlog a little bit this quarter.
But again you'll see by next quarter we'll be back in the more of closer to the mean over the past few years.
Okay.
And any indications around capital associated with that 2016 outlook? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Geez only that it would be less than 2015.
I mean that's – but it's a fallout of this narrowing focus.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But I feel uncomfortable putting numbers out there when we're still what six weeks away from putting numbers in front of our own board.
But if you're looking for directional it would be – clearly we're heading less than 2015.
That's helpful.
Okay.
And then I guess just wanted to – last question on my end.
Think about the fourth quarter a little bit and I think you kind of alluded to it in your comments about the back-loaded nature of the completions.
But just the implications backing off the first three quarters of the year kind of flat to down on a quarter What are the sensitivities around that from an operational perspective how should we think about what might put you on one end of the range or the other? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The rate for the fourth quarter...
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think we just stick with what Steve said which is we're kind of aiming towards a lot of those pads getting tilled really at the end of the quarter and therefore having very little impact on the fourth quarter volumes.
And so that results in the guidance being what it is.
But we get asked a lot about our response to current prices at any one point in time.
And as Steve was alluding to in this price environment it doesn't seem like the right time to be going through any type of heroic efforts to get things turned online any more quick.
Yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Right.
So the notion that we've reflected in the guidance that those TILs are going to drift backwards is just not troublesome.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> ...because they still get TILs.
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's just the question is whether it affects December volumes or January volumes is really the issue.
Fair enough.
And in the past you guys – just kind of brought up another question I had.
In the past you guys talked about a pretty substantial kind of spud to turn to sales time of I'll call it I think nine months or so and therefore 2015 spending is really kind of baking in the 2016 growth rate.
Given that I mean is that still in place which I imagine is? Is there really a price at which in 2016 you would be able to really slowdown the production? Or how do you tactically respond to gas prices in 2016 if they continue to kind of remain at these low levels on a realized basis? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We'll look at that as 2016 plays out.
Obviously part of the consideration as you mentioned is what the prices are.
But really the midstream is a big part of the consideration too.
If you have some midstream flexibility you can slowdown and kind of make it up later if you want to.
And when the midstream is more full then you have to decide you either want it or you don't.
You want the volumes or you don't want the volumes because you can't really make it up on the back end right? It's quite a ways down the road before you can make up those volumes.
But we certainly take prices into account while making our decisions about capital expenditures and what type of efforts to go through to try to accelerate or otherwise turning lines for wells.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess sorry one last one.
On the gas processing side do you have any increases in commitments around volumes from gas processing contracts that we ought to be keeping in minds given how low NGL prices are? Michael there's a little bit more coming on in January of less than 5% of where we are.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Stephen Richardson from Evercore ISI.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
David as you think about the strategy and kind of just went through some of these thoughts with the board.
So is there any evolution in your thoughts in terms of what the right mix of upstream versus midstream capital is here in terms and I'd appreciate that EQM is funded to some extent organically.
But in terms of returns and how to optimize that beyond 2017 just considering the gas outlook versus the gathering outlook from what you see from the different horizons here? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well first of all just kind of to reiterate my belief is the further out in the future you look the clear – and you mentioned beyond 2017 the clearer it is in my mind that capital expenditures for midstream should be at the EQM level.
We want to protect that IDR and the way to do that is to have the most attractive midstream projects possible so that they can afford to pay the incremental cash flow to the GP which is kind of the core value of that IDR where we stand now.
So that's going to be the mindset.
Strategically it's going to be midstream expenditures should occur at EQM.
Now if you're trying to get at what's more valuable generally midstream or upstream I guess that's a bigger picture question than just one company and we'll see.
We're trying to position ourselves so that we can be agnostic so that we can take advantage of wherever the value is in the value chain.
I agree that with the prospects of the Utica and issues like that it's not clear what the value chain will look like several years down the road but we think that the reason EQT is such an attractive investment is because EQT will participate no matter where the most value shows up in that value chain.
Right.
And can you just remind us as you think about upstream like the right capital allocation at EQT Production for next year appreciating this 9 months or 12 months gap between when you deploy capital and when it shows up in production? Like what is the – is it a wellhead hurdle rate is it a corporate return is it a burden return? What's the right return on capital? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah we look at all-in return.
All-in after-tax returns is the way we tend to look at things.
But that overlay that I mentioned in my prepared remarks was we just think we need to bear in mind what if the deep Utica works and what does that mean for clearing prices et cetera and therefore we should be particularly cautious about investing in anything but the core Marcellus which does stand up still in those environments and in the core Utica.
So it's more of that.
There's always uncertainty about what prices are going to be.
But whenever you have a new low-cost supply source in any commodity business you've got to start being wearier of where one wants to invest one's money.
So I think there's a certain amount of caution that we're taking that we're talking about because of that unknown because of not knowing yet the extent to which the deep Utica will work.
But our feeling that if it works the way it's looking like it might that the core areas for Marcellus and Utica are simply going to be narrower.
I mean we're going to be able to supply a big portion of North America's natural gas needs from a relatively small geography.
Right.
And – sorry just final question from me is have you and maybe it's for Randy in terms of conversations or thoughts on what the third-party opportunity is at this horizon? So again we're all assuming that if this is economic and it is lower cost and it isn't just a zero-sum game in terms of different capital going to the Utica but is EQM particularly well-positioned to capture a larger proportion of potential third-party volumes in these areas than you have in the Marcellus? Is this a big piece of forward growth beyond the $3 billion CapEx number? This is Randy.
Yeah I think we have a significant opportunity with the well results that we're seeing.
In fact I think Dave and Steve both mentioned that the core of the core Utica actually appears to sit right on top of our EQM assets both at Equitrans and with the gathering assets along Jupiter and Northern West Virginia.
In our projects that we have embarked on currently which is the Ohio Valley Connector and our Mountain Valley Pipeline I think position us quite well to both move – to be competitive and move gas to both affiliate as well as third parties.
So I think we're very competitively well positioned.
Yeah.
And look to your point probably we weren't as well positioned as you move a little bit outside of the core Marcellus from a midstream perspective.
So this emergence of the Utica is from a competitive and a comparative perspective a positive for EQM.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And we'll go next to Drew Venker from Morgan Stanley.
Good morning everyone.
Could you speak to the 2016 program could change if we have a warm winter and gas prices are well below the Strip (40:20) I'm thinking something around $2.25 for 2016.
I'm particularly interested whether that would significantly reduce your appetite to delineate the Utica in 2016? I guess and conversely if prices are higher would that change that Utica program at all? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> At that point though you are just talking about what 2016 prices would be? I mean the norm in commodities and I understand there does tend to be in the investor community short-term focus.
I recognize that people need to make money each quarter.
But actually lower prices near term tend to lead to more robust recoveries later.
So our view is much more the low-cost opportunities are going to be the ones that went out and you want to make sure that you're – especially if you think prices are going to be stressed at all that you're focusing on only going after the lowest cost opportunities and not letting yourself kind of get drawn into investing in opportunities that are other than that.
So I'd say that's our focus anyway.
And look in a lower price environment because we're talking about the deep Utica perhaps helping to create that obviously becomes even more important.
Right.
So I guess Dave it sounds it's not – probably not much change.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well change -yeah but the thing is we're not telling you what our 2016 plan is yet because we haven't gotten it approved from our board.
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So it's – I'm not even sure how I go about telling you what the change would be versus the plan that we can't even discuss with you.
Fair enough Dave.
And then....
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But yeah well if prices are lower then we'd probably over time will spend less money and if they're higher we'll probably spend more money over time.
But we're already talking about 2016 being below – fair a bit below 2015 as it is.
Right.
Right.
I was thinking Dave you mentioned maybe 10 wells or 15 wells at the Utica in 2016 that's really what I was thinking about (42:18) program.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah that'll be governed by how attractive it looks because those will still be more economical wells than anything else get probably that could get drilled anywhere in the country.
So...
Okay.
And then maybe you were speaking to probably wanting to build out another gathering system for the Utica.
Does that delay how quickly you want to move into development mode there? I guess thinking let's fast forward and say you're very happy with the results or maybe even more pleased than what you're seeing today? Would you still need to put a gathering system in place before you could accelerate in 2017? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We're...
Or it's too early even to think about that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Well no it's not too early to think about it but we haven't actually settled on what that approach will be.
Our bias is that a fair bid of the gathering for Utica is probably going to be separate because of the pressures involved.
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But as far as the specifics and exactly where it is and exactly how much money gets spent that we haven't.
We're not ready to disclose that stuff.
We're only just in the midst of even discussing that internally with our own board.
I guess and maybe another way to ask would be would you be interested potentially to have lower activity levels so you're not putting those very high pressures into your Marcellus gathering system? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're not going to put it into our Marcellus gathering system and that's – well go ahead Steve.
Actually in the short-term Drew we can put it into the Marcellus system.
It's not the most optimum situation long term for the Utica because the gathering – the unit gathering cost for the Utica in a dedicated system will be significantly lower than the cost of moving through a Marcellus system.
But for the next couple of years until we figure out exactly what the optimum systems are and get them built we can and the likely impact if we were doing that because the Utica was looking so good would probably be a shift from Marcellus investments to Utica which is how – which is where the capacity in those systems would effectively come from.
We've replaced Marcellus gas with Utica.
And as we build Utica systems at that point we would start to get the benefits of the lower unit cost.
Okay.
All right.
That's really helpful color.
Your answers were great I wasn't try to talk too bad or anything.
Thanks a lot guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
At this time I'll turn it back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Jennifer.
As Steve mentioned we will be posting a new analyst presentation to our website later today so that will be available some time after 4:00.
And I'd like to thank you all for participating.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Please stand by.
We're about to begin.
Good day and welcome to the EQT Corporation Year-End Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Patrick Kane.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Kyle.
Good morning everyone and thank you for participating in EQT Corporation's conference call.
With me today are Dave Porges CEO; Steve Schlotterbeck President of EQT and E&amp;P; Phil Conti Senior Vice President and CFO; and Randy Crawford Senior Vice President of EQT and President of Midstream and Commercial.
This call will be replayed for a seven-day period beginning at approximately 1:30p.m.
today.
The telephone number for the replay is 719-457-0820 with a confirmation code of 4832196.
The call will also be replayed for seven days on our website.
To remind you the results of EQT Midstream Partners ticker EQM and EQT GP Holdings ticker EQGP are consolidated in EQT's results.
Earlier this morning there was a separate joint press release issued by EQM and EQGP.
The partnership will have a joint earnings conference call at 11:30a.m.
today which requires that we take the last question on this call at 11:20a.m.
The dial-in number for that call if you're interested is 913-312-9034.
In just a moment Phil will summarize EQT's year-end 2015 results.
Next Steve will give a Utica update and summarize today's reserve report.
And finally Dave will provide a summary of the 2016 budget and the balance sheet implications.
Following the prepared remarks Dave Phil Randy and Steve will be available to answer your questions.
I'd like to remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements.
You can find factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements listed in today's press release and under risk factors in EQT's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs which were on file at the SEC and also available on our website; and under Risk Factors an EQT's Form 10-K for year ended December 31 2015 which will be filled with the SEC next week.
Today's call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please refer to this morning's press release for important disclosures regarding such measures including reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Phil Conti.
Thanks Pat and good morning everyone.
As you read in the press release this morning EQT announced 2015 adjusted earnings of $0.75 per diluted share compared to $3.43 per diluted share in 2014.
The high-level story for the year as well as for the fourth quarter was very strong volume growth in a lower-commodity-price environment.
Notably production volumes were 27% higher than last year and Midstream gathering volumes were up by 28%.
Due to the lower commodity prices adjusted EQT earnings adjusted EPS and adjusted operating cash flow attributable to EQT for 2015 were all down versus 2014 by any measure although results in both years were impacted by some unusual items that should be considered when interpreting and comparing the results year-over-year.
Adjusted operating cash flow attributable to EQT was $964.3 million in 2015 compared to $1 424.0 million in 2014.
And I refer to our non-GAAP reconciliations in today's release for more details.
Results in the fourth quarter were similarly down.
Fourth quarter 2015 adjusted net loss was $0.06 per diluted share.
That compares to adjusted EPS of $0.97 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Adjusted operating cash flow attributable to EQT was $233.9 million in the fourth quarter compared to $390 million for the fourth quarter of 2014.
Production sales volume was 13% higher than the fourth quarter of 2014.
We also realized 12% higher gathered volumes than last year and continued low per unit operating costs.
In the fourth quarter we recorded a negative tax adjustment of $79.5 million to reserve certain state income tax net operating loss carry forwards that may not be utilized in a low commodity price environment.
This had the impact of increasing the effective tax rate for the year.
Netting out the effects of this NOL carry forward adjustment in the fourth quarter as well as the regulatory asset tax adjustment in the second quarter would have resulted in an effective tax rate for the year of closer to 15%.
Although subject to many factors including commodity prices transactions et cetera we think a range of 10% to 15% is a reasonable effective tax rate range for your 2016 modeling purposes.
Now moving on to a brief discussion of results by business segment I will limit my discussion to the full year results as the explanations for the full year for the most part apply to the fourth quarter as well.
So starting with EQT Production EQT Production achieved record production sales volume of 603.1 Bcf equivalent for 2015 again representing a 27% increase over 2014.
As has been the case for many years now the story in 2015 at EQT Production was a growth in sales of produced natural gas driven by sales from our Marcellus wells.
2015 was our sixth straight year of more than 25% sales volume growth.
However lower average realized prices more than offset the increased sales of produced natural gas in our financial results.
The EQT average realized price was $2.67 per Mcf equivalent for 2015 and that was $1.49 or 36% lower premium than last year.
For segment reporting purposes of that $2.67 realized by EQT Corporation $1.74 was allocated to EQT Production with the remaining $0.93 allocated to EQT Midstream.
The majority of the $0.93 is for gathering which averaged $0.74 per Mcf equivalent for the year.
For the full year total operating expenses at EQT Production were $1 251.6 million excluding asset impairment charges and one-time drilling costs or 19% higher year-over-year.
DD&amp;A SG&amp;A and LOE were all higher again consistent with the significant production growth although production taxes were lower for the year as a result of lower prices.
Per unit LOE including production taxes was 25% lower year-over-year as volume increased more than expenses.
Moving on to the Midstream results operating income here was up 23% year-over-year mainly as a result of increased gathering and transmission revenues partly offset by increased operating expenses.
Gathering revenues also increased by almost 27% year-over-year as a result of higher gathered volumes in 2015.
Total operating expenses at Midstream were $318.8 million or $41.2 million higher than 2014 excluding an impairment and the expiration of some right-of-way options.
This increase was consistent with the growth of the Midstream business.
And then finally our standard liquidity update; we closed the year in a great liquidity position with zero net short-term debt outstanding under EQT's $1.5 billion unsecured revolver and about $1.25 billion of cash on the balance sheet and that excludes cash on hand at EQM and EQGP.
We currently forecast $600 million to $650 million of operating cash flow for 2016 at EQT which includes approximately $150 million of distributions to EQT from EQGP.
So we are fully capable of funding our roughly $1 billion 2016 CapEx forecast excluding EQM and EQGP with that expected operating cash flow as well as the current cash on hand.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Steve for an update on the Utica program as well as some thoughts on today's reserve release.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</strong> Thanks Phil.
As Phil just said today I'd like to review two topics the 2015 reserve report and an update on our Deep Utica program.
Starting with the Utica as you know we turned in line our first Deep Utica well the Scotts Run 591360 (sic) [591340] in July of 2015.
The well continues to produce at a consistent 30 million cubic feet per day with a steady pressure decline.
The well is exceeding our previous forecast and we now expect this well to flow at 30 million cubic feet a day until mid-April before it begins its production decline.
As a result we have revised the range of our EUR estimate to between 5.1 Bcfe and 5.9 Bcfe per thousand foot of lateral.
As a reminder this well has a completed lateral length of 3 221 feet.
And to-date this well has produced 5.8 Bcf.
Our second well the Pettit 593066 was completed at the very end of December.
This well has a 5 200-foot lateral and was completed with a 29-stage frac job.
After initial clean up and a 24-hour flow test at 43 million cubic feet per day we shut the well in for an extended reservoir pressure test and to install the permanent production facilities.
On January 29 we brought the well online at a choke restricted rate of 20 million cubic feet per day with a flowing casing pressure of 8 700 psi.
The initial results from the Pettit well appear to be in line with other Deep Utica wells in the area and are consistent with our expectations of the Utica across our core focus area.
In addition to the two producing wells we spud another two Utica wells.
The BIG 190 well in Wetzel County West Virginia has been drilled to TD and we are now in the process of completing the 35-stage frac job.
It has a 6 300-foot lateral and has an expected turn-in-line date in late February or early March.
Our fourth well the Shipman well in Greene County Pennsylvania is currently being top-set with the planned lateral length of 7 000 feet.
On the cost side for the Utica we've been able to achieve significant savings on each of our wells and are ahead of our schedule to meet our target of $12.5 million to $14 million per well.
Savings have been realized in all phases of the development cycle with the most significant savings coming from improved drilling efficiency.
Adjusting for lateral length the Pettit well cost $17.3 million and the BIG 190 cost $15.4 million.
On a cost-per-foot basis we've successfully lowered our cost from $9 600 per foot for the Scotts Run well to $2 800 per foot for BIG 190.
As a reminder we have two objectives for our 2016 Utica program.
One get the cost-per-well down to our target range which we expect to achieve on our currently drilling Shipman well; and two confirm the productivity of the reservoir within our core Utica focus area of Southwestern PA and Northern West Virginia.
If we can accomplish both objectives we expect the Utica returns in the core area will be competitive with or better than the core Marcellus and we will work on a plan to include Utica in our future development plans.
We will update you on our progress each quarter.
Moving on to the reserves report as you saw in our press release this morning we've announced total proved reserves of 10 Tcfe with 6.3 Tcfe of these reserves associated with wells that have already been developed.
This proved developed reserves total is 30% higher than year-end 2014 and includes 2.1 Tcfe of increases.
Within that 2.1 Tcfe increase is 386 Bcfe in proved developed reserves from wells that were unproved in 2014 but were ultimately drilled and completed in 2015.
This is consistent with the company's history of continuing to expand its footprint and develop areas that we believe to be economic even when they do not meet the SEC's definition of proved reserves.
Also contributing to our increased proved developed reserves is over 300 Bcfe from producing wells that are outperforming our previous forecast.
Additionally we converted 1.5 Tcfe or 25% of our 2014 PUD reserves into the proved developed category.
We also cut our five-year PUD development plan in half which is consistent with our reduced activity in 2016.
Both of these factors contributed to a 37% decrease in PUD reserves.
Looking at just our Marcellus reserves the average proved location considering both developed and undeveloped is 700 feet longer and has an EUR that is 1.4 Bcfe greater than the average proved Marcellus location booked in 2014.
These statistics demonstrate consistently strong well performance as well as EQT's ability to continue leveraging our acreage position within our core development area allowing us to drill longer laterals.
In fact our PUD reserves reflect 337 Bcfe of increases that is directly related to length extensions of previously booked undeveloped locations.
These length extensions not only boost the economics and reserves of previously booked locations but also allowed us to book 703 Bcfe of new PUD locations that were previously too short to be considered economic PUDs.
To further offset the effect of low pricing EQT continued to improve our efficiency and drive development costs lower.
The development cost of wells completed in 2015 was $0.83 per Mcfe versus $1.15 per Mcfe for wells completed in 2014.
This 27% reduction was driven by longer laterals improvements in drilling and completion efficiency and significant reductions in service cost particularly on the frac side.
Our current estimate of total resource potential is 78 Tcfe which now includes 25 Tcfe attributed to the core of our Deep Utica play.
Also within that 78 Tcfe of resource potential are our probable and possible reserves.
As noted in this morning's release using the SEC's required trailing 12-month pricing methodology resulted in total probable and possible reserves of 14.6 Tcfe.
If you look at forward-looking prices which are more representative of our development assumptions our probable and possible reserves would total 35 Tcfe.
Neither of those probable and possible totals includes any Deep Utica reserves as we are relegating that play to other resource potential for now with the exception of the 24 Bcf of proved reserves from our two producing wells.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave.
Thank you Steve.
This morning I would like to review our financial situation and philosophy when establishing our 2016 CapEx budget announced in December as this is our first call since that time.
As Phil mentioned we ended 2015 with well over $1 billion in cash and with nothing drawn on our $1.5 billion unsecured revolver.
In that context and given that we have other potential sources of cash such as another Midstream drop we were comfortable with the CapEx estimate that was moderately higher than our operating cash flow estimate for 2016.
However we do not have any plans to significantly erode that strong liquidity position as we believe that our current conservative financial approach is appropriate for today's environment.
The rest of my remarks will elaborate on that view.
First we've been looking to add to our core acreage position for the past year but have not yet transacted as sellers have not fully accepted the valuation impact of low commodity prices.
Ironically even if sellers' expectations did begin coming more in to line with current market realities we narrowed our geographic focus to possibilities that have real consolidation benefits within the core of the cores we have referred to it.
As the market continues to evolve it seems to us reasonably likely that there will be some actual transactions in the first half of 2016.
However given our tighter focus as well as some other attributes to the current market smaller asset transactions seem more likely than larger or whole company deals.
Now speaking of the market let's shift to our view of the natural gas supply demand market.
You may recall that I do consider rig count to be a reasonable if rough leading indicator of natural gas production; though some adjustments need to be made to glean any meaning from the published data.
For instance there is a longer lead time between spuds and marketable production than there used to be.
Rigs are more efficient than they used to be especially because of longer laterals and also improved completion techniques and more natural gas production comes from drilling that the data associates with crude oil-focused activity.
As an example of the latter issue that is associated gas when using the published Baker Hughes data we believe it is best to look at gas equivalent rig count; an admittedly simplistic adjustment to try to account for this associated gas involves assuming that each oil rig behaves more as if it is three-quarters oil and one-quarter gas.
The gas equivalent rig count equals gas-directed rigs plus 0.25 times oil-directed rigs.
The gas equivalent rig count calculated that way was essentially flat at 700 to 800 rigs from mid-2012 through the end of 2014; so for about two-and-a-half years.
The gas equivalent rig count then declined by about 45% by the spring of 2015 at which point it plateau-ed at about 380 rigs until last summer and then again declined gradually by another by another 10% or so.
Then starting in late autumn the gas equivalent rig count declined an additional 25% plus reaching 246 rigs last week.
I recognize that only 121 rigs of those are natural gas rigs is an aside that 121 rigs compares to a high in Pennsylvania alone of about 117 rigs not that many years ago.
So this 246 rigs is nearly two-thirds below the last rig count of 2014 and 35% lower than it was just in August of last year.
This sharp downturn in activity suggests lower future natural gas production.
The question in my opinion is when? That is how long is that lag? At EQT where we drill multi-well pads and long lateral wells the lags from well spud to turn-in-line or TIL is 9 to 12 months.
Other drillers may have somewhat shorter or longer lags but they all have material lags.
The uses of so DUCs that is drilled but uncompleted wells obviously lengthens the time lag between spud and TIL.
Also improved efficiencies can mean that one rig today is equivalent to one plus rigs of a year ago.
But this is only true for some efficiencies such as longer laterals.
Efficiencies such as reduced cost of spacing which also tend to accelerate production can affect the rig volume relationships somewhat over time but mainly improve economics and therefore reduce the economic clearing price at which supply equals demand.
My point isn't to try to predict the exact timing of the production decline but rather that this decline will occur and it is best that we position ourselves to quickly respond to a higher gas price when the time is appropriate.
We believe that a strong balance sheet does this.
Based on my expectations of declining supply I am reasonably bullish on natural gas prices once we have worked off the current inventory surplus as the current activity level is insufficient to meet demand overtime.
That said increased efficiencies and a tighter focus on the core of the core have certainly decreased the clearing price for natural gas perhaps to the mid-$3 per Mcf range down from our previous expectation of around $4.
I do expect that the price will go past that clearing price to the upside eventually as we have seen in the past as the lags that have delayed the production decline emanating from reduced activity will also delay an increase in supply from a future increase in activity.
Given the industry-leading cost structure of our core Marcellus acreage and potentially the Utica EQT can make excellent returns at mid-$3 gas.
Still just as we think it is important to be well-positioned when the market overshoots to the downside we will want to be similarly well-positioned when the market eventually overshoots to the high side even though that high side overshoot won't involve prices nearly as high as they were even a few short years ago.
In times of financial stress for our industry we think the prudent approach is to be conservative financially.
Whatever happens over the course of the rest of this year and into next year from a commodity price perspective we believe that having a strong balance sheet and available cash will put EQT in a position of strategic advantage.
This is certainly true if my macro thesis is correct.
However if the alternative thesis of prices that are much lower for much longer is correct having a strong balance sheet and available cash flow will also put EQT in a position of strategic advantage.
From what we can see there is no reasonably likely thesis under which our shareholders would be well served by us surrendering those advantages.
So in summary EQT is committed to increasing the value of your shares and we look forward to continuing to execute on our commitment to our shareholders.
And we appreciate your continued support.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Pat Kane.
Thank you David.
This concludes the comments portion of the call.
Will you please open the call for questions? Thank you.
[Operator Instruction] We'll take our first question from Scott Hanold with Royal Bank of Canada Capital Markets.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
How are you doing? Good Scott.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Doing well.
Good.
So Steve if I could ask you on the Deep Utica obviously the first well is a little better than you expected and if you run the math I think you guys are projecting somewhere around 18 Bcf EUR.
And just so I understand this right.
And then the total bookings for the two would be 24 Bcf.
So does that imply the second well the expectation's around 6 Bcf.
Is that the correct math? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well I think there's two adjustments you need to keep in mind trying to use the SEC reserves number to back into EUR estimates.
One those are reserves not EURs.
So anything produced prior to December 31 is not in there.
That's fairly minor for the Pettit well.
But it's also using the SEC definition so reasonable certainty we have two producing wells.
The Pettit well had almost no production data so our reserve projections in that case tend to be pretty much on the conservative side.
So I'm not sure the SEC numbers for the Utica wells really reflect very accurately our view.
And we think it's too early to really comment on our view of the EUR for the second well but I would say that it's consistent with our expectations of the Utica.
It's very very early but probably not quite as good as the Scotts Run.
I think the Scotts Run well will likely stand out for quite a while as an exceptional well and one that is definitely above the mean for the Utica.
So can I ask you this question? What was from what you've seen in the Scotts Run versus the Pettit what made the Scotts Run that much better? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> I don't think we know at the current time.
We're doing a lot of reservoir testing and studying it pretty closely and I don't think we have any firm conclusions.
Again we have some limited data points.
We have two data points now and the second data point has such limited history that I think it's premature to speculate too much about the reservoir just yet other than to say I think one thing we've proven is with the Scotts Run that clearly there's going to be some areas of the Utica that are exceptionally good and with the cost that we've already achieved the economics of those types of locations will be superior to probably any of the Marcellus opportunities that we have.
But we need to define where the areas are how big they are how repeatable they are.
And then you're going to have lots of areas that it's going to depend a lot on completion techniques and the final cost of these wells to see how it compares to the Marcellus.
I think that's going to take us some time and quite a few more wells to really define.
But there's certainly going to be some areas that are exceptional.
Okay.
So would I be correct in saying that – and I realize I totally respect the fact that we've got limited data especially on that second well.
But certainly you guys are still trying to evaluate whether or not this Deep Utica opportunity can compete with some of your better Marcellus areas.
I mean obviously Scotts Run gave you indications that there's a good chance for it but I guess the second well did it sort of put you a little bit on the sidelines yet? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well I think you can't oversimplify the process that we need to go through.
It's a brand new play very limited data potentially over a fairly broad area.
And I would say our expectations always have been that there will be some areas that are really really good and I think the Scotts Run clearly demonstrates that.
There's going to be some areas that are – take more time to figure out exactly how good they are and exactly how they stack up to the Marcellus.
And there's clearly going to be areas that you could drill Utica well – very productive Utica wells but they don't compete economically.
I mean the Utica is huge covers a very large area.
So there's going to be areas of exceptional performance in economics areas of competitive with the core Marcellus.
And remember that's our hurdle is comparing it to the best of our Marcellus opportunities and there's going to be areas where it falls short.
It's going to take some time to define that.
Okay.
I understand and appreciate that.
Thanks.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yes.
We will take our next question from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning everyone.
I was hoping you can provide a little bit more color on the well cost targets.
It sounds like it's not really changed at this point but you've made some really great progress so far on getting down to 12.5 Bcf to 14 Bcf.
Can you tell us where your latest thinking is? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah.
I think we haven't changed the targets but I'm feeling pretty confident that our next well will be within that range.
We still have a long way to go on it so anything can happen but it's looking pretty good.
I'm becoming much more optimistic that we will be ultimately at the bottom part of that range rather than the top part.
It's just a little early for us to revise that range.
We wanted to get in it for a well or two before we start updating it.
But I think our confidence in the lower part of the range goes up every day.
There's still quite a few areas for improvement and I guess that's why I'm so optimistic.
We're going to be within that range and can identify numerous opportunities for future improvements.
So we'll keep you up-to-date on how we're doing.
And as far as – obviously it's still early but as far as the different parts of the play do you expect well costs to be materially different between West Virginia and Pennsylvania once you get in to – let's say once you get closer to those well targets? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> I think – well the biggest driver will be depth.
Across most of our acreage the depth doesn't change a lot.
So for us it probably won't vary that much.
There are some regulatory differences between Pennsylvania and West Virginia particularly around casing and cementing designs.
So it'll vary a little bit by state although again not that much.
I think cost variability should be pretty low other than depth and of course lateral length and number of stages.
Okay.
And last one just if you can give us color on where you plan to drill those next few wells.
And if you could give a little bit more detail on where that I guess the well that's completing right now where that one is too? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah.
The Shipman well is also in Greene County.
I don't remember the distance from the other two but in the same general vicinity.
And the West Virginia wells will be very dependent on the results we see from the BIG 190 well which we – again we're two-thirds of the way done fracking so we should have results late February or early March which will influence our thinking about sort of where the program goes after that.
Okay.
Did you have an AFE for the Shipman well? Or is that too early for that? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well again I think we're going to – I think we'll be within the range on our actual cost but we just started drilling the well.
So it's premature.
But the high end of that range is where I expect that well to come in.
Okay.
Thanks for all the color.
And we'll take our next question from Arun Jayaram with JPMorgan.
Yes.
Good morning.
Steve just to clarify your comments you're saying based on your initial results in the Deep Utica it's kind of matching your expectations based on the limited data that you have if you can get well cost into that range that it could compete with your Marcellus program? Obviously a lot more drilling and completing to do but just I want to get your initial read on how the program initially competes with the Marcellus.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah.
I think our thinking all along is if we can get within that range and get the results that we we're hoping to get there will be areas of the Utica that are competitive with our very best Marcellus.
And I think clearly the Scotts Run which I would repeat we don't expect the Scotts Run result to be the norm.
So that's not when we factor in what we think the Utica is going to do we're assuming something a little less productive than the Scotts Run.
But yeah I think our view is that if we can get within that cost range and have the productivity that we think we can get that there will be areas that are competitive and probably some areas that will outcompete some of our best Marcellus.
Got you.
Got you.
And just the overall objective of this year's appraisal program which could be five to 10 wells? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well yeah.
As I said in my comments we have two objectives.
The first one and going into the year was our primary focus was to get the get cost down.
Since we started at around $30 million a well we we're certain that the costs in that range were never going to yield an economic project.
We've gotten this cost down quite a bit faster than I had expected.
So that was our primary objective.
But I think we're almost there.
I can't quite declare victory yet but we're getting very very close.
The second objective was to understand the productivity and the extent within the core of that productivity of the Utica and that's why we have to drill a 5- to 10-well program this year and get various data points and as we all know early in new plays there's always a lot of improvement even on the completion side.
You have to get up the learning curve.
So we'll make some mistakes.
We'll have some – obviously we'll have some fantastic wells.
We'll probably have some underperforming wells as we experiment with different techniques and we have to gather that data and analyze it and it's a lengthy process.
So we're going to spend the year gathering data and studying it and as we become comfortable with the implications we'll communicate that to you.
Okay.
And my final question is just looking at the core Marcellus program in 2015 you drilled about 160 Marcellus wells with an average lateral length of 5 400 feet.
This year obviously you're doing much longer laterals plan to do 72 wells.
Can you comment on what you're seeing in terms of well productivity for the longer laterals? Are you seeing similar EURs per 1 000 feet of lateral? And just maybe comment on the potential for well productivity gains in 2016 versus 2015.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah.
Our experience has been that the productivity versus lateral length is perfectly linear at least out to 10 000 feet.
We've seen no drop-off in productivity per foot as we've drilled longer which is why we been saying for a long time the longer the better.
So we work really hard on our land department to put together drilling locations with the longest possible laterals.
So you've seen our laterals get longer especially this year.
A lot of that is driven by all the land work that goes on behind the scenes to make that happen.
It hasn't been a change in our thinking about the economics of longer laterals.
We've always believed longer is better.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
We'll take our next question from Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I guess I just wanted to talk a little bit about the big picture outlook around production.
David you've walked through your views around the market and the big lags that you can see around laying down rigs and slowing down activity relative to production and highlighted the 9- to 12-month lag that you guys typically see.
In that context with the reduced well count in 2016 versus 2015 how are you thinking about growth potential in 2017 fully understanding it's premature to quantify but just kind of high level? What are the key factors within the 2016 program driving our expectations around a year out from here? We certainly think we'll be looking at a lower growth rate in 2017 versus 2016.
But also I think that we will be seeing some growth.
And probably that – I guess you could always say that the productivity of the specific wells that we drill is going to influence what happens in the next year.
In this case you'd probably particularly say it hinges on some of the Utica even though there's not that many Utica wells.
But generally speaking and I think it has to be for any of the companies that you're looking at that when you see lower capital expenditure and these kind of lags that when you look out another 9 to 12 months you're going to be seeing a reduction in the growth rate.
I think there's going to be folks like us where it's a – you'll see that real reduction in the growth rate and I think probably the great untalked about 'elephant in the room' as it were is the companies where they've had a sharp reduction in capital expenditures and their growth rates going to have parenthesis on it in 2017.
And frankly I think that will probably have a psychologically beneficial effect on the natural gas price market but that's still within the context of a clearing price that's a lot lower than what we would have thought maybe a couple of years back.
But that won't be the case for EQT but you will see a – you'll see a reduction in growth rate; you will for anybody who's cutting their capital expenditure.
I'll be happy to have anyone else here add their thoughts to that.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah.
Maybe the one piece of information I can provide that's related might be helpful is if we look at what our maintenance CapEx needs are to maintain a 2 Bcf a day production rate and this is all-in capital including sufficient capital to replace the acreage that we develop with the program.
So certainly in theory this would be a sustainable level of drilling.
We need about $700 million per year to sustain 2 Bcf a day ad infinitum.
So don't know if that gives you any more information? That's helpful.
Do you know roughly of that $700 million – sorry to get greedy here but how much of that is that acreage replacement relative to just raw drilling and completion dollars? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well the raw drilling and completion is about $575 million and then you have acreage some capitalized overhead G&amp;G costs compliance CapEx a bunch of other items to make up that difference so.
I do want to add one other comment.
Observing it some peers for their own reasons – we assume they obviously – we all try to do what's best for our shareholders but are talking about no rigs operating in 2016.
And I think it's phenomenal what the industry has done with improved rig efficiencies.
I'm still a little dubious that you can get down to no rigs and still have your production keep going up.
Yeah.
At some point that seems like it'll give.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> And yet frankly the market seems to behave as if of course we can get to no rigs and volumes will keep going up.
I also wanted to think a little more near term.
You've got a pretty substantial quarter-on-quarter growth rate implied by the first quarter guidance.
Is that more a function of fourth quarter timing of well completions or i.e.
late completions in the fourth quarter or early completions in the first quarter or some other kind of variable? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well it's both of those reasons and really nothing more.
It's really timing of when the rigs get done and the fracs get done and wells get turned on line versus specific quarter-end dates.
So yeah we are expecting a pretty substantial growth rate in the first quarter.
We will be this year in 2016 the growth will be more concentrated in the first half of the year than in the second half.
And you'll see if you look at our backlog numbers they came down a little bit in the fourth quarter.
We expect you'll see a pretty substantial drop when we report the results for the first quarter in terms of stages complete not online.
Okay.
So the completions pace in 2016 is also then front-loaded I would assume by that comment? Is that fair? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Yeah in terms of stages that come on per quarter.
Yeah.
Yeah.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> It's more front-end loaded.
And it's just the nature of the timing of the rigs and the reduction in our capital program.
So you'll see that reflected more in the second half of the year in terms of number of stages that come online.
Sure.
And then last on my end is just the composition of that backlog do you know the average lateral length on that or maybe the average stage length (41:48)? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> I do not...
Maybe...
No.
I don't have that.
What's your typical stage length? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> In-between 5 000 and 5 500 feet Michael.
Because the last three years our average length has been in that range.
I know.
Okay.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> 150 foot frac jobs five stages.
Perfect.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Thank you.
We will take our next question from Bob Bakanauskas with GMP Securities.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Back to the Scotts Run well I wanted to ask in terms of the increase in EUR per lateral foot is that simply a function of the pressures not declining as fast as you originally modeled? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well that's the primary driver but it's also – so we model that.
So it's not just the extra time it's going to take to get to pipeline pressure.
It's the history matching of our reservoir models.
The pressure decline that we match now indicates a higher potential EUR than the matches we were getting with West data (43:09) but it manifests itself through a slower pressure decline than we originally had modeled.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then just the progress on the cost side on the Shipman well specifically it looks like you'll be pretty close to hitting your original target.
Is there a different completion design there or are you still using ceramics or have you switched to sand? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> We switched to sand on the Pettit well so at the current time our plans are only the Scotts Run will have ceramic.
Our reservoir engineering analysis suggests that we're not seeing any impacts from switching to sand.
We're going to monitor that.
And if clearly if it would indicate that ceramic would drive a meaningful change in well performance we would switch back and at least experiment more with it.
But for now we're going with sand for this and all future wells.
Got it.
That's it for me.
Thanks.
We will take our next questions from Dan Guffey with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Just piggy backing on that last question.
You switched to sand in the Pettit well.
I guess I'm curious on the next two or I guess the five that'll be completed this year.
Are same concentration water volumes and/or stage or cluster spacing changing in any of those next five wells? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well that's hard to answer because we will decide as we gather data and have to commit to certain completion designs.
I think for now generally speaking it's a very general comment we're going to try to not change too many variables at once.
So I think the completion designs most likely remain very similar unless the data that comes back is indicating that there's something that we do want to change and gather data on.
So again I'm expecting not a lot of changes but that said I would expect that we will be tweaking a few things over the course of the next several wells.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
It's helpful.
And then I'm curious – switching gears to the Marcellus.
Can you guys give any detail regarding what you think to be optimal spacing throughout your core Marcellus and does this change as you move from Southwest PA dry into the wet West Virginia window? President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> Well actually we don't see a lot of change driven by dry versus wet.
We do see some differences in optimum spacing driven more by clay content in the rock.
And our spacing varies from as close as 500 feet in certain areas to as wide as 1 000 feet.
I think our average right now is running around 700 feet.
So it varies by geographic location and by geology but 500 feet or 750 feet are probably the two most common spacings with few areas at 1 000 feet.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just one last one.
Can you guys give me the annual decline on your PDP at year-end 2015? It's around 30%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for all the color guys.
We will take our next question from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
With regards to the impact of the CapEx trajectory on production as you see the pace of production start to slow as a result of lower CapEx is there any correlating impact on Midstream and the Midstream EBITDA growth? And if not should we at all see unit cost to the E&amp;P side of the equation move higher all else equal? You mean in terms of a load factor.
I guess Brian...
Exactly does your Midstream – how aligned is the Midstream growth to what you're doing on the volume side to the E&amp;P business first and foremost? Yeah.
I tend to be right around the 100% load factor.
So we're really spot on with the demand and capacity equipment (47:49).
In fact we're slightly over that in this quarter.
So pretty well aligned with the commitments to capacity.
Got it.
Okay.
And then separately can you just talk about any consolidation opportunities and your strategy there and what you see out there at these valuations and the level of interest? We just keep looking.
And I think this is what happens in a down market is the sellers – the sellers have a more difficult time adapting for lower valuations than the buyers do right.
I mean I don't think that's unique in oil and gas.
I think you probably see that in real estate.
You see that in a many number of places.
I'm guessing that the Houston real estate market is probably exhibiting some of those same same characteristics that's just I think what happens – the comment on the other bigger deals is as values drop I think the companies that sell have strategic reasons for wanting to sell.
And at that point they probably rather sell smaller packages rather than larger packages because they don't like the value they're kind of hoping for things to improve.
And as we focus more and more on the core of the core it just isn't the case.
As an example there are no – I think it's fair to say there are no publicly-traded companies where we'd say all of their properties are in what? For us is the core of the core.
It just doesn't exist.
And then of course when you look at the financially troubled ones that's just a whole different kettle of fish.
You really can't go in and buy those because the debt is trading at way under par and it just doesn't work for a company like us to go in and execute that.
So I just think all of those things conspire to restrict the number of opportunities for transactions that makes sense for both buyer and seller.
That makes sense.
Does the success you're seeing in the Utica can make you more introspective – or introspective might not be the right word – make you more consider just developing what you have or does this increase the case for broader industry consolidation? Gee I don't know.
Steve do you have a - President-Exploration &amp; Production</span></strong> I mean I would say success in the Utica – the one obvious advantage right at face value is it greatly expands our economic inventory which might make you think consolidation becomes less interesting.
I think one of the bring drivers in consolidation for us though is the enhancement in efficiencies you get the synergies from consolidation that will apply regardless of whether the Utica works.
And if the Utica works applies to the Utica.
So longer laterals more wells per pad a more efficient Midstream system design.
So all of those incremental value exist regardless of what happens with the Utica.
So I think there's still a compelling case for consolidation given how fragmented the northeast natural gas plays are.
There's definitely a lot of value add in having bigger more contiguous acreage positions.
Thank you very much.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Patrick Kane for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Kyle.
Just one last closing statement.
We are updating our analyst presentation to reflect the new information put out today.
That will be available sometime this evening.
And again thank you all for participating.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
You may now disconnect.